Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5786-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
November 1, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1985)
US$1.00       =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp) 1,100
RP 1 million = US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAETE         -    Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD          -    Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
ADAB          -    Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB           -    Asian Development Bank
AOP           -    Annual Operating Plan
APBD          -    Funds for Provincially Implemented Programs
APBN          -    Funds For National Development Programs
BALITAS       -    Research Institute for Tobacco and Fiber Crops
Bangda        -    Directorate General of Regional Development
BAPPEDA       -    Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS      -    National Development Planning Agency
BRI           -    Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Cipta Karya   -    Directorate General of Human Settlements
cP            -    FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
DGE           -    Directorate General of Estates
DGFC          -    Directorate General of Food Crops
DCH           -    Directorate General of Highways
DGrS          -    Directorate General of Livestock Services
EIIU          -    Eastern Islands Implementation Unit
GOI           -    Government of Indonesia
IFAD          -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
Kabupaten     -    District
Kecematan     -    Subdistrict
Kekanwil      -    Head of Provincial Agricultural Offices
MOA           -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOF           -    Ministry of Finance
MPW           -    Ministry of Public Works
NAEP          -    National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP          -    National Agricultural Research Project
NCO           -    Non-Governmental Organization
NTB           -    Nusa Tenggara Barat (West Nusa Tenggara)
NTT           -    Nusa Tenggara Timur (East Fusa Tenggara)
OPE           -    Office of Project Execution (tNDP)
PCU           -    Project Coordinating Unit
PDP           -    Provincial Development Project
PMU           -    Project Management Unit
PPIPD         -    The UNDP's Project for Regional Planning and Preparation of
Investment Oriented Projects
PTP           -    Limited Liability, State Owned Enterprise
REC           -    Rural Extension Center
SATGAS        -    Livestock Field Team
SOE           -    Statement o' Expenses
UNDP          -    United Nations Development Program
USAID         -    United States Agency for International Development
VOC           -    Vehicle Operating Cost



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY .........................................          iv
I.   BACKGROUND        ...................................1............. 
The Agricultural Sector .................................         1
Rural and Regional Development ..........................         2
Bank Experience in Agriculture and Regional
Development ...........................................         3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA .......       ...................................    5
^Beera ........................... ............................  5
Agricultural Structure of NTT/NTB            .        .           6
Areas of Productive Potential              ..                     7
III.   PROJECT FORMULATION    ................................               9
Project Identification and Preparation .....o ............        9
Project Design                        0....        ... *...       9
Considerations in Project Design ........................        10
Rationale for Bank Involvement ..........................        14
rV.   THE PROJECT ..............................................           14
Objectives                      .... .    14
Project Description and Detailed Features ...............        14
Components Implemented by Sectoral Agencies ...........        14
Components Implemented by the Provincs ................s.18
Components Cost-shared with U NDP          ..                  19
Status of Preparation      ... . . o        . ..........         20
Implementation Schedule               ......    20
Project Costs ....................................... . . . .    20
Financing Plan ....................... #..................       22
Flow of Funds                  .........  23
Procurement                     ......  23
Disbursement ............ ............ ...........so......................  26
Accounts and Audits ................                             27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in March 1985. The mission consisted of Ms. G. Davis and
Messrs. P. Sun and B. Fisher (Bank), Mr. L. Robertson (CP) and Messrs. C. Relf
and and P. Wilson (consultants). Technical support was also provided by
Messrs. R. Henderson (consultant) and C. MacAndrews (PPIPD).
This document has a restricted disuibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ... ....................... .... .                   27
General ..............................*.*.....*..*.....*.*..*..*..**        27
Research*&*e*&e.*...&..e..*.% .... **.o ...... o.o ........*                29
Cotton Development ...  .. ...... ...            .. ... ..........          30
Cattle Development .............................................            31
Road Improvement ..          .....     ...    .. .         ..      . *      32
Provincially Implemented Components... ..................                   32
PPIPD II ....... oo ............ ..........o ........... oe- .........      33
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting..................o..                    33
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................                       34
Agricultural Production and Marketing ......... ...........                 34
Farm Prices, Incomes and Cost Recovery.          ........ .....             35
Project Benefits ........................................ . ......... 36
Economic Analysis ........... ........             ......... .....          38
Environmental and Social Impact .........................                   40
Project Risks ............... ....................................          40
VII.    AGREEMENITS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................                    41
Assurances Obtained ............................. . ...... .                41
Condition of Effectiveness ........................  ........               42
Conditions of Disbursement............. .................                   42
Recommendation.*   ......... .......................                        42
TABLES AND FIGURES IN THE MAIN REPORT
2.1   Average Seed Cotton Yields  ...............................                     7
4.1   Project Cost Summary.......................................                    21
4.2   Financing Plano........... .....                     ..............            23
4.3   Procurement ...................................... 24
5.1   Coordinating Mechanisms ...  * ........ o ........... ........                 28
6.1   Cattle Productivity With and Without Project.. ...........                     34
6.2   Benefits and Beneficiaries................... ..............                   37
6.3    Sensitivity Analysis ......................... o......... ..                  40



- Iii -
ANNEXES
I. Project Tables
1.  Suinary Accounts by Budget Year
2. Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
3. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4. Implementation Schedule
5. Technical Assistance and Consultant Services Provided under the
Proposed Project
6.  Reserve Procurement Veiicles to be Provided by Government
7. Selected Areas of Concentration for the Agricultural Support
Services
Component
8.  NTT Area Development Component - Kabupaten Manggarai
9. NTB Area Development Component - Kabupaten Lombok Tengah
II. Economic Analysis
1. Cattle Productivity and Benefits
2. Summary of Farm Budgets
3. Physical Input-Output for Crop Production
4. FinanciaL and Economic Prices
5. Cash Flow of Cattle Breeding Model
6. Cash Flow of Cattle Fattening Model
7. Cost Recovery of CattLe Development
8. Summary on Data on Road Component
9. Economic Benefits on Road Improvement
10. Economic Benefits and Costs
III. Institutional Support for AgricuLtural Development in NTT/NTB
IV. Statements of Expenditure
V. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
Indonesia - Nusa Tenggara Barat and Nusa Tenggara Timur (IBRD 19000)



- iv -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia.
Loan Amount:           US$33.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The proposed project would be the first stage of a
longer-range agricultural development program in two of
Indonesia's poorest provinces: Nusa Tenggara Barat
(NTB) and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT). The proposed
project would provide funds to sectoral agencies for
farming systems research, pilot cotton development,
cattle development, and national and provincial road
improvement in NTT; and it would channel funds to the
provinces for agricultural activities complementing sec-
toral programs and for two small pilot area development
components. Research and road improvement would lay the
foundation for increased agricultural production, and
pilot components would test new technologies and new
organizational arrangements for supporting agricultural
development. A component, cost-shared with UNDP and
executed by their Office of Project Execution, would
identify investment options in Southeast Sulawesi and
Irian Jaya and provide technical assistance for
components implemented by the provinces. Technical
assistance for agricultural development components would
be provided under grant from the Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB), and selected rural roads in
NTB would be improved under a roads project assisted by
the Asian Developr.ent Bank.
Risks:                Technical risks associated with cotton development and
organizational risks associated with the use of the
provinces to identify and implement some components are
minimized by limiting these components to three-year
pilot projects and by providing technical support on a
grant basis in order to permit timely deployment of
consultants.



v
Estimated Costs:                                       Local      Foreign    Total
-  (US5 million) -   -
Agricultural research                           3.3         2.6        5.9
Cotton development                              1.1         0.8        1.9
Cattle development                              7.8         1.3        9.1
Road improvement                                5.1         7.8       12.9
Agricultural support and area development    9.6            2.5       12.1
Regional investment studies and                 2.5         4.4        6.9
implementation support
Total Baseline Costs                        29.4        19.4      48.8
Physical contingencies                          0.6         0.6        1.2
Price contingencies                             6.2         2.8        9.0
Total Project Cost /a                       36.2       22.8       59.0
Financing Plan:                                        Local      Foreign    Total
-    (USs million)
IBRD                                16.9        16.1       33.0
ADAB                                  -          2.8        2.8
UNDP                                 0.9         2.5        3.4
ADB                                   -          0.6        0.6
COI                                 18.4         0.8       19.2
Total                           36.2       22.8       59.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY   1986    1987 1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
=-  ----T    W.Umillion} 
Annual              0.3       1.0  2.7   5.0    6.0    8.0    7.0    3.0
Cumulative          0.3       1.3  4.0   9.0   15.0   23.0   30.0   33.0
Economic Rate of Return: 18Z for cattle development, 24% for road improvement
(covering 40% of project costs)
Map:     IBRD 19000:  Indonesia - Nusa Tenggara Barat and Nusa Tenggara Timur
/a Includes taxes estimated at US$2.4 million.



rNDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
1X51      Objectives.  The GOI's major objectives for the agricultural sector
are to:
(a)  create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural poor;
(b) increase doiestic food supply to keep pace wirh rising demand;
(c)  expand agricultural exports, particu'arly of tree crops; and
(d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water
and other natural resources.
1.02      Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth in produc-
tion, agriculture's share of GDP declined from 40% in 1968 to 30% in 1983, due
mainly to the increased value of oil production. Nevertheless, the agricul-
tural sector remains of overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indo-
nesians. Nearly 80Z of the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is
the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural households and one-
tenth of urban households. In recognition of this fact, investment in agri-
culture and irrigation accounted for about 14% of the development budget in
1984/85 and was the second largest expenditure after education.
1.03      Food Crops.  GOI kas traditionally concentrated on increasing the
production of rice, the preferred staple food of the great majority of
Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly (4.5Z p.a.) between 1970 and
1983, due to irrigation rehabilitation, the increased use of fertilizer and
high-yielding seed, and expansion of cropped areas under the transmigration
program. Estimated 1984 production was 25.5 million tons and it is expected
that a large measure of self-sufficiency can now be sustained. Over the past
decade, the output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts
and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an average of only 1.6Z p.a. Yield
improvement of these crops through intensified research and support services,
and expansion of the harvesi..ed area, would serve many of the poorest parts of
Java and the eastern islands which are too dry for rice as a major crop.
1.04      Tree Crops and Estate Crops.  Tree crops and comercial crops such
as cotton and tobacco occupy about one-third of total cropped land (coconuts
and rubber account for 80Z of this), and generate about 43Z of total non-oil
export revenues. Smallholders cultivate 80Z of the rubber area and virtually
all coconut, coffee, cloves and pepper. Tea and oil palm are grown primarily
on estates, while cotton and tobacco are grown mainly by smallholders with
assistance of estates or other commercial enterprises. Expansion of



- 2 -
smallholder tree crops is of high priority, given the vast area of over-aged
and low yielding smallholder rubber and coconut, the good market prospects and
employment potential for these crops, and Indonesia's comparative advantage in
producing them.
1.05      Cotton.  About 2% of Indonesia's cotton requirements are met by
local production and the last ten years have seen a fourfold growth in cotton
imports. In 1983, the country imported about 110,000 tons of cotton lint at a
cost of about US$173 million, which placed a considerable demand or. foreign
exchange. This situation has long been a cause for concern to the GOI, and
several attempts have been made to establish cotton cultivation in the
country. The most recent is a scheme for the intensification of smallholder
cotton which provides a credit package to smallholders for seed, fertilizers
and pesticides. Government estates (PTPs) are responsible for supplying
inputs and for collecting, processing and marketing the smallholder crop. In
1983/84 about 30,G00 ha were pLanted to cotton under this program, primarily
in East Java, South and Southeast Sulawesi and the Nusa Tenggaras; however,
yields to date have been low (Table 2.1).
1.06      Livestock.  There are some 8.3 million cattle and 2.5 million
buffalo in Indonesia which are kept by smallholders primarily as a source of
draft power and manure, and secondarily as a capital reserve and source of
cash income. About 70% of all land cultivated for food crops is prepared by
cattle or buffalo power, the other 30% by hand labor. Mechanization is dis-
couraged on employment grounds, and is still negligible. The herd offtake, at
about 12% nationally (14% on Java), supplies an accelerating demand for meat,
especiaLly on Java where cattle slaughter has increased by about 3% p.a. over
the last 10 years. Java, Sulawesi and the Nusa Tenggaras account for 6.7
million head or 80% of the national herd. Goats and chickens are used for
domestic consumption and for cash-throughout rural areas, and pigs are kept in
many areas of eastern Indonesia.
1.07      Institutions in the Sector.  The Ministry of Agriculture is divided
into four Directorate Generals (DG7j): Food Crops, Estate Crops, Livestock,
and Fisheries; and two agencies which have Directorate General status:  the
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) and the Agency for
Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE). Each of the four
commodity-oriented DGs has permanent staff in each province. Provincial staff
are technically under the direction of the line agencies, but administratively
responsible to the provincial Governors, and they carry out both national
(sectoral) programs and special projects identified and financed by the
provinces. Coordination of agricultural services at the provincial level is
the responsibility of the head of the predominant agricultural service in the
province. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) financed by religious groups
and bilateral aid programs also promote agricultural development and use of
their managerial resources is encouraged by the GOI.
Rural and Regional Development
1.08      In the last decade Government has placed increasing emphasis on
regional development programs. Regional Planning Agencies (BAPPEDAs) were
created in all provinces in 1974, extended to the districts in 1979, and given



- 3-
the authority to coordinate sectoral and provincial activities; regional
development studies were commissioned on most areas of Indonesia in the 1970s
to guide investment decisions; and funds flowing from the national government
to cities and provinces were steadily increased. In 1984/85, funds for this
purpose accounted for 13% of the development budget, the third largest item of
expenditure. To coordinate the flow of funds a division was created in the
National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) specifically for regional development and
a new Directorate General of Regional Development (Bangda) was created in the
Ministry of Home Affairs in 1981. Recently, tendering for civil works and
equipment has been decentralized to the provincial level to ensure equitable
distribution of development benefits.
1.09      Area development programs designed to meet basic needs and to
generate employment and production have also been initiated in the poorest
areas of Java and the Other Islands and have expanded as provincial implemen-
tation capacity has increased. Such projects have been initiated in upper
watersheds in Java where high population densities exceed environmentally safe
limits, and contribute to erosion, flooding, and siltation of ports, dams and
irrigation canals. Projects have also been prepared for the Other Islands
where ecological conditions differ from those on which national programs are
based and where a multisectoral approach is required to stimulate agriculture
and economic development.
Bank Experience in Agriculture and Regional Development
1.10      Agriculture.  Since the first of 22 irrigation and swamp reclamation
projects for Indonesia was approved in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural
lending to the country has expanded to include ten projects in estate and
smallholder tree crops, five projects in transmigration, plus projects in fer-
tilizer production and distribution, livestock, fisheries, research, exten-
sion, training, seeds, upland farming, area development, and resource
surveying and mapping. These projects have had a significant impact on
production and incomes in Java and Sumatra, the most populous and productive
of the islands; but they have had little impact, to date, on poverty
alleviation or production in the drier eastern islands.
1.11      Bank-financed projects in the agricultural sector with implications
for the proposed project include:
(a) Research and Extension. The Bank is currently appraising a Third
National Agricultural Research Project and a Third National Agri-
cultural Extension Project in Indonesia. Previous projects have
focused on infrastructure, manpower and organizational issues and
provide the groundwork for institutional development. However,
recent shortages of vehicles and operational funds in extension
projects have limited farmer contact particularly in the less
populated islands.
(b) Estate Supported Projects. There is a large portfolio of
Bank-assisted projects managed by estates and covering rubber,
coconut, oiL palm, and sugar. Early projects were very successful,
but high Government planting targets combined with Low commodity



prices and Government resource constraints have recently strained
the managerial and financiaL capacity of some estates.
(c) Cattle Development. The Bank appraised a Saiallholder Cattle
Development Project in 1979 to move cattle from areas of surplus to
transmigration schemes. This project, financed by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), shows that the technical
problems of procuring and transporting cattle can be overcome and it
has demonstrated the importance of strong field teams in improving
animal husbandry and calf return. Another project for this purpose,
funded jointly by the Bank and IFAD, was recently approved by the
Board (Ln. 2628-IND).
These points have been considered in project design.
1.12      Future Bank lending in the sector is expected to focus on:
(a) increasing non-oil exports, including rubber, forest products and fish;
(b) expanding the output of non-rice food crops, especially under rainfed
conditions; (c) multipurpose water resource development (for domestic,
industrial, food protection, energy generation and irrigation); and (d) muLti-
sectoral rural development targetted at the least developed areas of the other
islands.
1.13      Rural and Regional Development.  The Bank has supported regional
development in Indonesia through transmigration, irrigation, rural works and
other projects. It also completed a sector report, Selected Aspects of Spatial
Development (Report 4776-IND, November 1, 1984), which reviews regional sta-
tistics on population, migration, employment, and public finance; and lays the
foundation for understanding regional differences and development prospects.
An Annex to the report, on the evolution of regional development planning in
Indonesia, focuses on the case of Nusa Tenggara Barat and makes recommenda-
tions that have been considered in design of the proposed project. The Bank
is also assisting two regional development projects and one rural roads
project which channel funds directly to the provinces for implementation.
1.14      The first of these projects, the Yogyakarta Rural Development
Project (Cr. 946-IND), became effective in late 1979. This project aims to
strengthen the capacity of the provincial government to implement area devel-
opment programs in two extremely poor districts on the south coast of Java. A
review of this project, completed in April 1985, indicated that targets for
most components had been met or exceeded but disbursement was very low
(US$5 million out of US$12 million after five years). This was attributed to
the introduction of cost-saving measures, failure of a few components outside
the agricultural sector, and an overestimate of contingency funds. During the
project period the capacity of the provincial government grew to such an
extent, however, that successful activities have been expanded in the last two
project years. Lessons learned under the project include the importance of
establishing appropriate management systems and appointing key project
personnel at the onset of project implementation. Much was also learned about
coordination of regional development activities among sectors and levels of
government.



- 5 -
1.15      The Bank-assisted Rural Roads Development Project (Ln. 2083-IND),
which became effective in 1982, is intended to finance a three-year time-slice
of the Government's rural roads program in 25 districts and to provide
equipment, technical support, monitoring and evaluation. Since project funds
flow to the district governments for road improvements, the secretariat for
this project is Located in the Ministry of Home Affairs in the Directorate
General for Regional Development (Bangda) rather than the Directorate General
of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry o' Public Works which controls other roads
programs. Progress to date has been slow. Weaknesses in the Bangda
directorate responsible for the project have led to management difficulties
and the quality of works has been poor. To help resoLve these problems, the
secretariat has recently been strengthened by inclusion of representatives
from the DGH and BAPPENAS, and the program has been extended by one year.
Experience to date has highlighted the importance of gradually strengthening
implementation capacity, and of striking an appropriate balance between
central and local government roles.
1.16      The most recent project to channel funds to local-level governments
is the Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project (Ln. 2474-IND) approved in
1984 and cofinanced with the United States Agency for International Develop-
ment (USAID). This project is intended to increase the incomes of farmers in
critical watersheds in East and Central Java and to promote resource conserva-
tion. Under this project the responsibility for project implementation lies
with district governments and their local line agencies, with project coordi-
nation provided by the BAPPEDAs. It is too early to evaluate these arrange-
ments, out lessons learned from earlier provincially implemented projects have
been taken ir.co account in project design.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT) are the
easternmost provinces in the chain of islands stretching from Sumatra through
Java and Bali toward Australia's north coast (see map). Together these pro-
vinces have 5.8 million people, 3.5Z of Indonesia's population, and cover
about 68,000 km2, 3.6% of Indonesia's land. Although small, the area is noted
for its physical, climatic and social diversity. The population includes some
of Indonesia's most committed Moslems, a major part of the nation's Christian
population, and indigenous people of both Polynesian and Papuan descent.
There is also marked variation in climate, soils, topography, land availabil-
ity and agricultural potential within the two islands, but in general it is
the driest region in Indonesia and atypical of the rest of the Republic. Only
5Z of the area has a reliable 5-6 month growing season, and in the absence of
significant income generating activities outside of agriculture, NTT and NTB
are two of Indonesia's poorest provinces. Per capita gross regional domestic
product (GRDP) is less than 50% of the national average, placing NTT and NTB
24th and 25th out of 26 ranked provinces (only Yogyakarta ranks lower), and
consumption levels are the lowest in the nation.



-6-
Agricultural Structure of NTT/NTB
2.02     General.  Agriculture contributes about 60% to the GRDP of NTT/NTB
and it employs 85Z of the working age members of the population. Due to
unfavorable topography and soils, only about 30% of the available land in the
region is arable. Soils of predominately volcanic origin on Lombok, Sumbawa
and Flores are more fertile than those derived mainly from limestone on the
islands of Sumba and Timor, but given the application of nitrogenous and
phosphatic fertilizers, economic yields are attainable on most soils. A major
factor limiting agricultural production is the occurrence of heavy clays in
South Lombok and in portions of Sumba and Timor which cannot be cultivated
until rains begin.
2.03     AgriculturaL land per rural family is estimated at 0.8 ha in NTB and
1.10 ha in NTT, but land is not distributed equitabLy. Population pressures
in South Lombok, Bima and Flores result in small, uneconomic farm units which
are a basic cause of poverty in these areas, while eLite local families rais-
ing cattle on an extensive basis in West Timor and Sumba have access to large
tracts of land. Underutilized land in Sumbawa, Flores, West Timor and Sumba
could be developed to alleviate the pressure in critical areas, but lack of
access, the traditional system of clan land ownership, and the limited
resources avaiLable to undertake land surveys and issue formal land titles
have constrained movement into these areas and discouraged permanent farm
improvement and the establishment of perennial crops.
2.04      Smallholder Crops.  In NTB the major wet season crop is paddy which
constitutes almost 70% of the area cropped in the wet season. Corn and mung-
bean are next in importance followed by soybean. In NTT the main wet season
crop is corn, followed in importance by rice and cassava with relatively small
areas of sweet potato, mungbean, soybean and peanut. Average yields are low
and input use on rainfed crops is restricted due to high risk, limited know-
ledge, and lack of access to agro-chemicals and sprayers. In NTB, there are
about 90,000 ha of smallholder tree crops, in NTT about 240,000 ha, and in
both provinces coconut occupies over half the area planted to tree crops.
2.- "I;   Cotton was planted on about 3,750 ha in NTB and 1,925 ha in NTT in
1983/84, but average yields were low (see Table 2.1). Some of the reasons for
low cotton yields are clear. Agroclimatic data are sketchy and planting times
have not been determined on the basis of a systematic analysis of existing
information. Seed is poor and low germination results in low plant
densities. In addition, the seed recycled from the gin is generally of mixed
varieties and plants are often unsuited to their location. Field mAnagement
practices are poor, and recently many farmers who planted cotton have become
ineligible for additional credit due to low yields and limited capacity to
repay. Under the pressures of high targets, PTPs have expanded to areas where
farmers are inexperienced and conditions are not well suited to the crop.
Under these circumstances, poor performance is understandable and Government
continues to support cotton production in the region as it is one of the few
cash crops suitable for smallholders in these dry areas, and because priority
is given to import substitution and other areas of Indonesia have limited
potential for production of the crop.



-7-
Table 2.1: AVERAGE SEED COTTON YIELDS (kg/ha)
East Java       NTT            NTB         South Sulawesi
1978-79                 901             -          1,057              1,055
1979-80                 951             -          1,036              1,195
1980-81                 659             -          1,009              1,048
1981-82                459            320            544                813
1982-83                 376           348            233                631
1983-84                423            313            203                610
1984-85                555            355            767                746
2.06      Livestock.  In 1983 the cattle population of NTB was estimated at
253,000, mainly Bali breed cattle. The distribution of cattle is uneven with
84% located on Lombok and most of these located in Lombok's irrigated central
strip. Sumbawa has considerable underutilized agricultural land and a rela-
tively small livestock population and the provincial government has been
distributing small numbers of cattle on that island (about 350 in 1984/85).
This program has worked well. There is a large demand for cattle and many of
the distributed animals are being used for draft.
2.07      The cattle population in NTT was estimated at 466,000 in 1983.
Distribution of the population is inequitable with very low numbers in Flores
and high numbers in Timor. The bulk of the herd is maintained under an exten-
sive grazing system and Less than 25% are tethered or stall fed. The average
cattle holding is in excess of six head, but the majority of smallholders do
not own any cattle. Rangeland is characterized by grasses of low nutritive
value and by evidence of environmental degradation due to grazing pressure,
and cattle productivity is low with a 70% calving rate and mortalities of 25%
in the first year. In the dry season cattle concentrate near limited water
points further accentuating overgrazing.
Areas of Productive Potential
2.08      Climatic factors in the project areas favor livz!stock production
over other forms of agriculture, particularly in NTT, and the region has tra'
ditionally acted as a supply area for both slaughter animals and breeding
stock. Government policy is to build on this comparative advantage and
increase the quaLity and quantity of the breeding herd in order to increase
farmer incomes and ensure a long-term supply of c .tle and livestock products
for domestic and export markets. Consistent wit?L this policy, a new livestock
research substation is being established in Kupang, and Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB) projects are exploring the use of small dams in Timor
to expand carrying capacity in the dry season and supporting veterinary
services in the eastern islands.
2.09      The potential also exists for increasing the producLivity of rainfed
crops, particularly corn which is the major source of subsistence in the



-8-
poorer areas. On-farm triaLs carried out on a limiLed scale by FAO indicate
that attractive yield increases can be obtained from secondary foodcrops,
including corn, mung and soybean, with the application of low cost improve-
ments in agronomic techniques and input use. Time of sowing, seed rates and
pest control are the main contributors to increased yields, followed by the
use of improved seed of appropriate varieties and, in some situations, appli-
cation of fertilizers. Integrated farming systems which combine livestock and
perennials with food crop production also have good potential for generating
income increases. Although smallholder cotton in Lombok and Flores has had
limited success to date, there remains a consensus among technical specialists
that the crop remains potentially profitable in carefully selected parts of
these provinces.
2.10      Finally, there are opportunities for increasing productivity through
terracing and afforestation with Leucaena leucocephala, a leguminous shrub,
referred to locally as lamtoro. In many regions of NTT/NTB environmental
damage has been arrested and reversed through the development of stable farm-
ing systems based on lamtoro. Beginning with experimental plantings by the
Dutch in the 1930s, lamtoro now dominates the landscape in some areas of Timor
and has led to the development of an intensive cattle fattening industry.
Lamtoro has also had an impact in Flores where fertile volcanic soils support
a dense human population. Attempts to encourage conventional terracing in
mountainous areas had failed because of the labor input required, but a
technique of indirect terracing through the establishment of rows of lamtoro
planted along the contours has been widely accepted, and in the past 10 years
between 20,000 and 30,000 ha of terraces have been established.
2.11      In summary, agricultural produccion in YrTT and NTB is constrained by
climate, topography and land tenure arrangements, and by inadequate infor-
mation about cropping systems and technical packages suited to the area.
Farmer incomes are limited by low productivity and the absence of cash crops
with reasonable marketing potential. Marketing is limited, in turn, by poor
communication both within and between provinces. Institutional arrangements
in government agencies located in NTT and NTB are detailed in Annex III, but,
in general, trained manpower is scarce and concentrated in district and
provincial capitals, implementing institutions are relatively weak and in many
cases responsible for carrying out national programs not well suited to the
eastern islands. In spite of these problems there is ample opportunity for
increasing agricultural production and the proposed project is an initial step
in addressing sectoral constraints.



- 9 -
III.  PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Identification and Preparation
3.01      A Regional Development Study of Eastern Indonesia was completed in
1976, with support from the Canadian International Development Agency. To
follow up on this work the GOI requested UNDP technical assistance in 1978 to
prepare feasibility studies for projects in NTT/NTB and to strengthen the
implementation capacity of the BAPPEDAs. For this purpose a UNDP-financed,
World Bank-executed project (INS178/046) became operational in 1981. This
project, Regional Planning and Preparation of Investment Oriented Projects, is
known by its Indonesian acronym, PPIPD. Under PPIPD, short monographs were
completed on the economies of the two provinces, detailed feasibility studies
were carried out on cotton and livestock development, an in-depth study of
rainfed agriculture was commissioned, and many small stulies were undertaken
to improve the technical quality of the Government's inB'estment program.
Concurrently, GOI gained experience with regional development projects
implemented by local level governments and assisted by the Bank (paras. 1.13-
1.16), USAID, the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany, among other
donors. The USAID-assisted Provincial Development Project (PDP), which
supported planning and implementation of small-scale projects through the
Department of Home Affairs, covered 14 provinces, including NTT and NTB, and
financial-flow and decision systems developed under PDP and under the Bank-
assisted Yogyakarta project (Cr. 946-IND) provided viable models for
consideration by the Bank.
3.02      In 1983 the Bank reviewed these projects to determine whether
further investment was feasible in NTT/NTB, and in early 1984 the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program (CP) was requested to assist the GOI to prepare a multi-
component agricultural support project suitable for Bank financing. Given the
uncertainties associated with agricultural development in the region, it was
recognized that many of these activities wouLd have to be pilot activities
providing the groundwork for future investment.
Project Design
3.01      Components.  The CP identification mission submitted a project
proposal in May 1984. It recommended, inter alia, support for rainfed agri-
culture through provincial agricultural services, research on integrated
farming systems, cotton and livestock development, and malaria control. The
report also emphasized the constraints upon agricultural production imposed by
the poor quality of the roads and inadequate transport network. The priority
of these items was agreed with the GOI and a CP mission revisited Indonesia in
October/November 1984 to prepare the agricultural components of the project.
At the same time the Bank initiated preparation of a limited road improvement
component and it was agreed that malaria control would be covered under a
forthcoming Bank-assisted health project. The GOI also requested that funds
be included in the proposed project to extend the PPIPD approach to Southeast
Sulawesi and Irian Jaya and to finance two small-scale area development
projects identified under the first phase of PPIPD.



- 10 -
3.04      Organizational Arrangements.  The preparation report emphasized the
need for an integrated approach to agricultural services in NTT/NTB, and it
tentatively recommended that all agricultural activities be identified and
implemented by the provinces rather than the sectoral agencies. However, the
relatively large amount of money to be expended and the limited trained
manpower in NTT/NTB, suggested that the scale of the proposed project could
potentially exceed the implementation capacity of the provinces. It was,
therefore, proposed that all project activities normally undertaken by
sectoral agencies be executed by these agencies and that funds be channeled to
the provincial governments to complement sectoral programs and accelerate
their implementation. This view was accepted by Government. To facilitate
implementation, the number of sectoral components was reduced and their
execution streamlined; and procedures were designed for the provincially
implemented components which permit the maximum flexibility consistent with
reasonable technical control.
3.05      Objectives.  The resulting project is intended as an initial step in
a longer term effort to reduce the production constraints summarized in
Chapter II. The proposed program of research would lay the groundwork for
improving technical packages and upgrading extension, and one area development
component would provide a model for addressing land tenure constraints. Where
marketing opportunities exist, as in the case of cattle, production would be
encouraged through redistribution of livestock for breeding and fattening; and
a pilot project has been proposed to test the potential for expanded cotton
production. Immediate infrastructure constraints would be addressed through a
limited road improvement program, and regionaL transport issues are being
further studied by the Bank. Institutional development would be promoted by
directing financial and technical support to provincial agencies to identify
and implement priority projects, and supplementary funds would be provided to
the provinces fcr training, coordination and manpower development.
Considerations in Project Design
3.06      Cotton Development.  The Bank and Government originally hoped to
support a significant investment in cotton production in NTT/NTB. However, at
appraisal cotton yields were so low that large-scale smallholder involvement
in cotton production did not appear justified until higher yields could be
achieved and sustained. To reach this objective the proposed project supports
a three-year pilot component to test the assumption that available technical
packages can produce reasonable yields if areas are appropriately selected,
and good seed and good field management practices are introduced. At the end
of three years, a review would be undertaken to determine whether support for
expanded cotton production would be justified.
3.07      Livestock Development.  The CP proposal recommended the purchase and
redistribution of cattle, buffalo, goats and pigs with credit recovery through
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). However, existing credit mechanisms are not well
suited to the redistribution of buffalo, which have a long gestation period,
or small livestock, which can be generaLly purchased and multiplied without
credit and do not justify the high cost of credit administration; and for
these reasons, it was agreed that the proposed project would concentrate on
the purchase and redistribution of cattle in areas where productivity would be
increased.



- 1I -
3.08      Since the BRI has been slow to establish smallholder accounts under
the IFAD-financed SmallhoLder CattLe Development Project (para. 1.11), some
observers suggested that cost recovery in Bank-assisted cattle development
programs should be entirely .n-kind and managed by the DGLS. However, given
the COI's desire to introduce farmers to credit, to mobilize resources through
the banking system for agricultural development, and to maintain close
scrutiny of financial transactions involving external loans, it was agreed
that BRI would act as a channeling bank for smallholder cattle development
funds and that all projects would use the same procedures in order to estab-
lish a uniform system of finance and cost recovery.
3.09      Research and Extension.  The preparation report recommended two
components, agricultural research and expansion of extension services, which
are also covered in Bank-assisted projects supporting national programs. A
question was raised whether these components should be subsumed under the
national projects. Both the provinces and AARD felt strongly that the
research component should be included in the proposed project as the component
is focused on regional priorities and is necessary to achieve project objec-
tives. Cotton research is also linked to the work being carried out on cotton
development under the project and the DGE argued that to separate the two
would potentially lead to redundancy and lack of focus. Finally, a research
component in this project would be started earlier and would be likely to get
better supervision and higher priority as a major component in a regional
project than as a minor component in a national program. Therefore, in order
to ensure timely start-up and to promote project objectives, it was agreed
that the research component should be retained in the project.
3.10      In the case of extension, however, it was agreed that about 60 rural
extension centers (REC) and 40 animal health posts would be constructed and
equipped in NTT/NTB under the proposed Third National Agricultural Extension
Project (NAEP III) currently being processed in the Bank, and that extension
staff would be recruited and trained under that project. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that these facilities would be establishtd prior to
April 30, 1992. To fiLl vacant positions for extension workers in NIT and to
overcome the problems caused by a lack of rental housing in rural areas of
that province, it was further agreed that funds would be provided to NTT under
the proposed project to construct houses for extension staff adjacent to new
and existing RECs.
3.11      Roads.  The first issue' i:i the design of this component concerned
the type of road to be improved. The DGH initially proposed improvements to
rural (district) roads. However, given the problems encountered in the Bank-
assisted Rural Roads Development Project (para. 1.15), GOI and the Bank agreed
that the proposed project should be Limited primarily to upgrading about 190
km of national and provincial roads on Flores Island. Due to high rainfall in
the short rainy season and rugged topography, these paved roads are in very
poor condition and impose a severe constraint on input distribution and
marketing in project areas. Because these roads are under the authority of
the DGE rather than the district governments, organization problems associAted
with the improvement of rural roads can be avoided. (Rural roads to be
constructed or improved under the area development components of the project
are discussed in paras. 4.09 and 4.11.)



- 12 -
3.12      A second issue was whether to adopt traditional construction methods
known to small local contractors, or to introduce higher standards similar to
those used in the Bank-assisted Highway Betterment Project (Ln. 2404-IND), and
use larger contractors who have the skills and equipment required to reach
these standards. While the use of small local contractors might have improved
domestic contracting capacitv in Flores, road improvements would have entailed
work by 30-50 locaL contractors whose capacity is so weak that serious
tendering and supervision problems were envisioned. Therefore to ensure
satisfactory quality of works, it was agreed that road improvement should be
split into three or four contracts suitable for international tender (for
which many domestic firms are qualified) and that the construction standards
used in the Highway Betterment Project should also be applied in NTT (para.
4.09).
3.13      In view of the poor quality of road maintenance in the eastern
islands the question was also raised whether roads should be improved before
road maintenance problems were addressed. There are several reasons for the
poor quality of road maintenance: road are poorly constructed and deteriorate
rapidly, provincial offices lack the machinery, funds, and trained staff to
make timely repairs, and local contracting capacity is weak. Under the
proposed project the quality of basic road works would be improved, equipment
would be provided for repairs and public works staff would be trained in the
use and maintenance of this equipment. Consultants supervising road construc-
tion would also be required to make an estimate of expenditures needed to
maintain roads and assurances were obtained that roads constructed or improved
under the project would be adequately maintained (para. 5.11). Nationwide
institutional and policy issues relating to road maintenance are to be
addressed in a forthcoming Bank-assisted project in the transport sector.
3.14      Agricultural Support Services.  Preparation reports completed by the
CP and the Ministry of Agriculture (KOA) proposed a rather large number of
agricultural activities to be carried out by the provincial agricultural
services and the number and diversity of these activities would have made them
difficult to appraise individually. In addition, many of these activities
duplicated or expanded sectoral programs even though the most pressing need at
the provincial level is for funds to complement centralLy-financed programs
and to supplement agricultural staff. Provincial funds are already used for
such purposes, but they are insufficient. For these reasons, it was decided
that the proposed project would allocate funds annually to the provinces to
identify and implement priority projects and that procedures would be designed
to permit flexibility while ensuring reasonable technical, economic and admin-
istrative control. These procedures are outlined in Chapter V. Funds for
this component would be budgeted only for the first three project years in
order to test the procedures and ensure complete disbursement within the
project period.
3.15      Pilot Area Development.  Under PPIPD I, provincial officials and
PPIPD advisers identified a number of areas with development potential in both
project provinces. Feasibility studies were then carried out in two loca-
tions, the Lembor plain in Flores (NTT) and an impoverished area in southern
Lombok Tengah (NTB), and proposals for area development projects in these
locations were included in the UNDP proposal for PPIPD II. As in the



- 13 -
agricultural support services component, a very large number of area develop-
ment subcomponents were proposed for these areas covering agriculture, agro-
processing, public facilities and other subprojects. Since it would have been
difficult to appraise each element and since priorities shift from year to
year as new sectoral programs are announced, the decision was taken that funds
would also be allocated to the provinces on an annual basis for priority proj-
ects in these areas, and mechanisms and standards for seLection and review
would be similar to those outlined above. Detailed arrangements are covered
in Chapter V.
3.16      Project Organization.  Prior to appraisal it was assumed that the
project would be implemented as an agricultural project with the lead agency
in the MOA. Howaver, early in the appraisal, BAPPENAS indicated that the
steering committee for this project would be convened by the Directorate
General of Regional Development (Bangda) in the Ministry of Home Affairs, as
under the Yogyakarta Rural Development Project (para. 1.14) and the USAID-
supported Provincial Development Project (para. 3.01). There are advantages
and disadvantages to this arrangement. On the positive side, the Deputy
Chairman for Regional Development in BAPPENAS and the Director General of
Bangda have provided strong support for the project and this approach contri-
butes to Government's goal of supporting regional development and strength-
ening provincial administration. The Yogyakarta and PDP projects are now
operating effectively under their leadership, and application of the approach
in NTI/NTB is seen as a promising next step in a gradual process toward
regional decentralization that begLi over a decade ago (para. 1.08). However,
Bangda has had problems of absorptive capacity and the secretariat for the
Bank-assisted Rural Roads Development Project, located in a particularly weak
sub-directorate within Bangda, has recantly had to be strengthened
(para. 1.15). The subdirectorate responsible for the proposed project is
stronger and has successfully implemented a number of bilateral projects, but
it has also encountered administrative and fund flow difficulLies. To
circumvent these problems, steps have been taken to strengthen management and
financial control (para. 5.03), and a Project Coordinating Unit has been
formed in Bangda to facilitate implementation.
3.17      Cost Sharing Arrangements with UNDP.  The GOI requested financial
assistance under this project for a second stage of the PPIPD project which
would include funds for technical advisers to facilitate the provincially-
implemented components of the project and to identify investment opportunities
in Southeast Sulawesi and Irian Jaya. This component has a total cost of
about US$6.9 million (including Government's contribution), of which US$2.7
million would be from the proposed loan. It was initially assumed that the
Bank would execute this project, as with PPIPD I. However, as there are
constraints on the Bank's role when its own funds are involved, it was agreed
that this project would be executed by the UNDP's Office of Project Execution
(OPE), with the Bank serving as associated agency. In this capacity, the Bank
would participate in technical supervision of PPIPD II and advise OPE on such
matters as terms of reference, work programs and key personnel appointments.
A project document between UNDP and the Government which formalized these
arrangements was signed on August 9, 1985.



- 14 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.18      This project would complement the Bank's portfolio of production and
poverty-oriented agricultural projects in Indonesia. The project focuses on
two of Indonesia's poorest provinces and within these provinces on the poorest
part of the population. As these provinces have relatively untesced agricul-
tural potential and limited implementation capacity, a major purpose of Bank
involvement would be to demonstrate alternative approaches to agricultural
development (sectoral programs, complementary provincial programs, area deve-
lopment and pilot projects) and to mobilize the technical support needed to
improve the technical viability of these components and of the agricultural
activities routinely carried out with provincial funds. The project would
also strengthen provincial institutions and improve local level planning and
implementation; and it would test a model for regional development with an
emphasis on agriculture which could be extended to other areas of Indonesia.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The project would help raise farmer incomes, promote equitable
regional development, strengthen provincial institutions, and decentralize
planning and implementation.
Project Description and Detailed Features
4.02      The proposed project would provide funds to sectoral agencies for
farming system research, cotton development, cattle development, aid national
and provincial road improvement; and it would channel funds to the provinces
for agricultural activities complementing sectoral programs and for two small
area development components. Funds would also be provided for a component,
cost-shared with UNDP and executed by their Office of Project Execution (OPE),
to identify investment options in Southeast Sulawesi an"' Irian Jaya and to
provide technical assistance for components implemented by the provinces.
Pilot components would be budgeted for three years and completed in year
four. During year four a mid-term review would determine whether further
investment is warranted. For other components, budgets would be prepared for
five years and implementation would be completed by the end of the sixth
project year.
I. Components Implemented by Sectoral Agencies
4.03      Farming systems and cotton research (AARD).  The proposed research
component would:
(a) carry out a one year study of existing farming systems in NTTINTB;
(b)  establish an eastern islands implementation unit near Kupang to
serve as a base for a multi-disciplinary team investigating farming
systems in NTT/NTB;



- 15 -
tc) establish three 15 ha field stations in Lombok, Flores and Timor,
for both farming systems and cotton research, and provide
facilities, vehicles and equipment;
(d) provide funds for research at the field stations and on farmers'
fields;
Ce) upgrade facilities and equipment for the Research Institute for
Tobacco and Fiber Crops (BALITAS) in Malang;
(f) provide housing, storage and laboratory facilities at Asembagus,
East Java, and provide equipment and sprinkling systems for the pro-
duction of cotton breeder and foundation seed;
(g) provide funds for travel, per diem and allowances for project staff;
(h) provide about 80 man-months (mm) of expatriate technical support,
and 60 mm of local consultancy support for bookkeeping and financial
control.
4.04      As there are wide variations in the agro-ecological zones of eastern
Indonesia, the proposed project would emphasize farm surveys, on-farm research
backed by established institutes, and improved coordination of ongoing
project-related work. In the first year of the project a farming systems
survey would be undertaken to identify the range of farming systems used in
NTT/NTB and from this, 10 to 12 such systems would be selected for research
concentration. After the survey, an inception report outlining the proposed
research program would be submitted to the Bank and in the second year of the
project, research would commence at project field stations and on farmers'
fields.
4.05      Funds would be provided to BALITAS to upgrade their facilities and
to develop a cotton research program emphasizing quick returns (e.g., plant
population and spacing trials) and reduced economic costs (e.g., trials on
pesticide use). Support would also be provided to BALITAS to improve the
production of cotton breeder and foundation seed at Asembagus in East Java and
to undertake research on the field stations in East Lombok and Flores where
plant selection, verification trials, and site-specific agronomic and
entomological work on crops including cotton would be carried out.
4.06      Cotton Development (DCE).  The proposed cotton development pilot
project would:
(a) establish two cotton development units, one in NTT and one in NTB;
(b) establish 16 demonstration areas of 5 ha each in farmers' fields in
Lombok, Sumbawa and Flores, and provide funds for housing, equipment
and demonstration activities including practical demonstrations of
proper pesticide use;



- 16 -
(c)  provide funds for verification trials on a 22 ha plot in JTT and a
22 ha pLot in NTB;
(d) provide equipment for stock seed production in NTT and NTB;
(e) provide facilities and funds for training project staff and farmer
leaders;
(f) provide funds for a financial analysis of PTP XXVI and XXVII and a
feasibility study for a possible cotton development project; and
(g) provide about 45 mm of expatriate technical support, and 72 mm of
local consultant services for financial control.
Each participating farmer in the demonstration program would receive inputs
totaling about Rp 75,000 equivalent per hectare under a standard credit pack-
age which is already available, and these funds would be repaid from the
proceeds of the crop. In order to test whether cotton can be grown in these
areas if adequate management is provided, incentive payments of an additional
Rp 125,000 per hectare would be paid to the demonstration farmers upon the
completion of satisfactory work. These funds would be used by the PTPs to
provide supplementary labor, if required. To assist the farmers, each
supervisor would be supplied with farm tools, basic animal-drawn equipment and
hand spraying equipment; and at least one pair of working bullocks would be
issued to farmers in each demonstration area under the livestock component of
the project. The demonstration areas would introduce better seeds from stock
seed production areas and test improved farming practices. Induction training
would be carried out in these demonstration areas and basic meteorological
equipment would be set up in each location and at the ginneries to measure
rainfall and solar radiation. Yields from demonstration areas and verifica-
tion trials would be reviewed after the third project year, and a detailed
feasibility study would be prepared for a cotton development project, if
warranted by the yields obtained and by the financial situation of the PTPs.
4.07      Cattle Development (DGLS).  The most important productive component
in the project is cattle development. The proposed component would:
(a) procure and distribute 22,500 breeding animals within NTT and NTB
(20,500 females and 2,000 bulls);
(b) distribute 6,000 head of cattle for fattening;
(c) construct three new holding ground/quarantine stations and
rehabilitate one existing station;
(d)  create two project management units (PMUs) in Kupang and Hataram and
a central management office in Jakarta, upgrade their facilities and
provide vehicles, supplies and equipment;
(e) establish about 48 field task force teams (SATGAS) to improve cattle
health and husbandry and to monitcr the return and redistribution of
offspring;



- 17 -
(f) provide about 54 mn of expatriate support for cattle management,
7 mm of specialist support, and 60 mm of local consultancy services
for financial control; and
(g) provide funds for a feasibility study of livestock production on the
Tambora peninsula, Sumbawa (NTB).
4.08      Cattle would be procured in areas of surplus where they are typical-
ly underproductive due to nutritional stress and poor management practices,
and they would be distributed to regions with a low existing cattle produc-
tion, underutilized arable land which could benefit from animal draft power,
or areas of surilus of forage. All cattle would be redistributed in the
provinces where they were purchased, and assurances were obtained that they
would be purchased and transported in accordance with procedures agreed by the
Bank. Priority for cattle distribution would be given to (a) the eight
districts identified as areas of potential for agricultural development;
(b) areas in Timor Tengah Utara where small dams are being constructed by the
Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB); (c) the subdistricts in
Lombok Tengah included in the NTB area development component (para. 4.11); and
(d) demonstration areas for the cotton development component (para. 4.06).
Credit arrangements are covered in para. 5.10.
4.09      Roads Improvement (DGH).  This component would:
(a) improve about 190 km of national and provincial roads on Flores
Island;
(b) provide workshops and equipment for road maintenance to district
public works offices in Kabupaten Sikka, Ngada and Larantuka;
(c) provide consultant support tn supervise construction, train Public
Works' staff in the operation and maintenance of the equipment fleet
and supervise the design and construction of the Lembor settlement
roads; and
(d) provide funds for a feasibility study of a Flores north coast road
which would open up areas with good potential for settlement and
agricultural production.
The national and provincial roads have pavements of penetration macadam, are
about 3 to 4 meters in width, and are in very poor condition. Under the
project, roads would be improved to a 3.5 meter pavement and 0.5 meter
shoulder with a double bituminous surface dressing on a 15 cm crushed stone
base and subbase (where required) and shoulders of selected materials. These
standards are similar to those used in the Highway Betterment Project. In
addition, about 40 km of rural roads required for the area development
component in NTB would be improved under a project being financed by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) (para. 4.11), and about 50 km of settlement roads in
NTT would be constructed under the provincially implemented component of the
project. Arrangements for the construction of settlement roads are covered in
para. 5.11.



- 18 -
II. Components Implemented by the Provinces
4.10      Agricultural Support Services (BAPPEDAs).  Under this component the
project would provide:
(a) a lump sum cf about Rp 200 million annually for three years to each
of eight selected districts (kabupaten) to supplement funds
available for agricultural programs;
(b) a lump sum of about Rp 100 million per year for three years to each
province to assist non-governmental organizations (NGOs) working in
agriculture;
(c) Rp 150 million per year to each province for human resource
development, mainly training of area farmers and agency staff; and
(d) about 300 houses for extension workers in NTT.
Since agency staff are already heavily committed, up to 20% of the funds in
(a) and (b) could be used to pay honoraria and salaries for full-time,
project-specific staff; this would include up to US$1.2 million equivalent or
up to 4% of the proposed Bank loan. Agricultural subprojects would be
concentrated in eight districts given priority by the BAPPEDAs, of which three
are in NTB, five in NTT. Subprojects would include such activities as seed
multiplication, storage and distribution; plant protection; distribution of
small animals; construction of slaughterhouses; demonstration of conservation
farming, intercropping and community forestry; job training in ecology and
agricultural management; training in freshwater fish farming and home garden
development; and study tours covering agro-industries, irrigation management
and dryland farming. Details of the subprojects and related budget proposals
would be given in AnnuaL Operating Plans to be prepared by the provinces. In
total, about Rp 850 million (US$775,000) would be allocated annually to NTB
and Rp 1,350 million (US$1.25 million) to NTT. This would roughly double the
provincial funds available for agriculture in each of the project provinces
and would improve the ability of the provincial governments and local level
agricultural services to set priorities, manage incremental funds and meet the
staffing requirements of an expanded agricuLtural program.
4.11      Area Development (BAPPEDAs).  This component would provide funds
for:
(a)  the rural roads, land titling, water supply and public .acilities
required to settle 3,500 families in Lembor (NTT); and
(b) agricultural support, afforestation and social services in two poor
subdistricts of Lombok Tengah (NTB).
The Lembor scheme would permit settlement by farmers who are already culti-
vating irrigated land in the area and it would provide a model for developing
several similar areas in NTT. Project support to area development in Lombok
Tengah (NTB) would be directed at priority projects identified under the first
phase of PPIPD, including soybean and cashew processing, nutrition monitoring,



- 19 -
bridge upgrading, and improvements in high school laboratories. In addition,
about 40 km of rural roads, estimated to cost about US$1.0 million, would be
constructed in the Lombok Tengah project area under the ADB-assisted Eighth
Roads Project. ADB has assisted previous rural road projects in NTB and has
procedures in place for tendering and supervision.
4.12      Coordination (Bangda/BAPPEDAs).  Funds would also be provided under
the project to support the management and coordination of both the Agricul-
tural Support Services and Area Development components and to cover the cost
of:
(a) a domestic consultant for four years to serve as a senior management
consultant within the PCU in Bangda;
(b) training and manpower development primarily in Bangda and the
BAPPEDAs;
(c) travel and per diem to facilitate coordination; and
(d)  about 162 mn of technical support to Bangda and the BAPPEDAs for
bookkeeping and financial control.
III. Components Cost-shared with UNDP
4.13      Technical Assistance (Cipta Karya).  Tinder PPIPD II, the project
would provide:
(a) honoraria for a national project coordinator and deputies in Cipta
Karya and Bangda;
(b) a chief technical advisor in Cipta Karya; and implementation
advisers in Bangda and in the NTT and NTB BAPPEDAs to assist with
provincially implemented components;
(c) advisors and short-term consultants to the BAPPEDAs of Southeast
Sulawesi and Irian Jaya to extend the PPIPD approach to these pro-
vinces and to help identify investment opportunities there; and
(d) training and equipment to Bangda and the BAPPEDAs and alliwances for
project staff.
4.14      Irian Jaya Regional Development Study (Cipta Karya).  Since there is
limited manpower available for project preparation under PPIPD Is, projects in
Southeast Sulawesi would be identified and prepared primarily for government
investment. However, the Irian Jaya Regional Development Study is intended to
lay the groundwork for future external assistance. The study would evaluate
the natural and human resource base of Irian Jaya, identify investment options
for manpower and institutional development and prepare an agricultural support
project suitable for external assistance. This would be a practical multi-
sectoral project intended to benefit the indigenous population including those
living in the highlands.



- 20 -
Status of Preparation
4.15      Land for research sites has been identified and agreed with
provincial authorities and funds for land purchase, if required, will be
included in GOI budgets in the first project year. Terms of reference (TORs)
for the Irian Jaya Regional Development Study have been prepared and agreed
with the GOI. TORs for a cotton research development specialist have also
been agreed and a consultant is being recruited under the Second National
Agricultural Research Project (Ln. 1840/Cr. 1014-IND) tu finalize the proposed
cotton research program and to provide periodic supervision over three
years. TORs have been prepared for the farming systems survey and for all
technical specialists to be engaged by ADAB and UNDP. Consultants under the
Bank-assisted Highway Betterment Project (Ln. 2404-IND) are preparing detailed
designs and tender documents for road construction and this work is suffi-
ciently advanced to permit tendering of about 50% of the contracts in April
1986. Draft first-year plans for the provincially implemented Agricultural
Support Services and Area Development components were reviewed at negotiations
and found satisfactory the Bank, subject to specific revisions (para. 5.14).
Implementation Schedule
4.16      An implementation schedule covering major works is included in
Annex I, Table 4. In the first project year the farming systems survey would
be undertaken by AARD, and a collaborative research progrem would be developed
which would proceed for the four subsequent years. Cotton verification
trials, stock seed production and demonstration activity would be carried out
for three years and cattle would be procured and distributed over five
years. Road construction would begin in about September 1986 and be completed
in project year four. Road maintenance equipment would be ordered in year one
and is expected in the field before road improvement is completed. As noted,
the provincially implemented Agricultural Support Services and Area Develop-
ment components are allocated budgets for three years, although implementation
is expected to extend through year four. PPIPD II components would commence
in late 1985 and extend over three years with the bulk of activities concen-
trated between April 1986-April 1988. A mid-term review of implementation
would be held in mid-1989. At that time, pilot activities including cotton
development and provincially implemented components would also be reviewed to
determine whether expanded investment is justified by pilot results. All
project activities would be completed by April 1992.
Project Costs
4.17      The total estimated project cost is US$59.0 million of which
US$22.8 million (38Z) is foreign exchange (Table 4.1). Base costs are
expressed in November 1985 prices and include US$2.4 million in taxes
(para. 4.19). Project costs by summary account and budget year are provided
in Annex I, Table 1 and detailed cost tables are available in the project
files.
4.18      Quantities and costs were estimated in the CP preparation report,
revised at appraisal and adjusted to November 1985 values. The cost of ADAB
and UNDP technical support is consistent with their experience in the



- 21 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rp billion                 US$ million         Z total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  base costs
Agricultural Research
Farming systems research                  3.2      2.1     5.3       2.9      1.9      4.8         10
Cotton research                           0.4      0.7     1.1       0.4      0.7      1.1          2
Subtotal                         3.6      2.8      6.4      3.3      2.6      5.9          12
Cotton Development
Verification trials                       0.1      0.0     0.1       0.1      0.0      0.1          0
Seed supply                               0.3      0.5     0.8       0.3      o.5      0.8          2
Demonstration                             0.4      0.2     0.6       0.4      0.1      0.5          1
Training, evaluation &
technical support                       0.4     0.2      0.6       0.3      0.2      0.5          1
Subtotal                         1.2      0.9      2.1       1.1     0.8      1.9          4
Cattle Development
Cattle distribution                       8.4      1.4     9.8       7.6      1.2      8.8         18
Provincial facilities                     0.1      0.1     0.2       0.1      0.1      0.2          0
Subtotal                         8.5      1.5    10.0       7.7      1.3      9.0         18
Roads
National & provinciaL roads               4.5      6.2     0.7       4.1      5.7      9.8         20
Rural roads                               0.4      0.7     1.1       0.4      0.6      1.0          2
Workshops & construction equipment        0.7      1.      2.4       0.7      1.5      2.2          5
Subtotal                         5.6      8.6    14.2       5.2      7.8    13.0          27
Provincially Implemented Activities
Agricultural support services             4.9      1.1     6.0       4.5      1.0      5.5         11
Area development                          3.2      0.8     4.0       2.9      0.7      3.6          7
Rural extension centers                   1.3      0.4     1.7       1.2      0.4      1.6          3
Coordination & financial control          1.1      0.4     1.5       1.0      0.4      1.4          3
Subtotal                        10.5      2.7    13.2       9.6      2.5    12.1          24
Regional Studies & Implementation
Support (PPIPD II)
Support to SAPPEDAs                       2.4      2.8     5.2       2.2      2.5      4.7         10
Irian Jaya study                          0.4     2.1      2.5       0.3      1.9      2.2          5
Subtotal                         2.8      4.9      7.7      2.5      4.4      6.9         15
Total Baseline Ccsts            32.2    21.4    53.6       29.4    19.4    48.8          100
Physical contingencies                     0.6      0.7     1.3       0.5      0.7      1.2          2
Price contingencies                        6.8      3.0     9.a       6.2      2.8      9.0         18
Total Project Costs             39.6    25.1    64.7       36.1    22.9    59.0          120



- 22 -
sector. Cost estimates include 8% physical contingencies on the per km cost
of roads (15% on the subbase and earthworks and none on pavement since lengths
are known) and 15% on field Lesearch.  No other physical contingencies are
provided as quantities are generally known or funds are allocated annually as
a lump sum (e.g., Rp 100 million per year for NGOs). Total physical contin-
gencies are estimated at US$1.2 milLion, or 2% of project costs. Expected
price increases are equal to US$9.0 million or 18% of base costs plus physical
contingencies, and were estimated on the basis of the following inflation
rates: for locaL costs, 8% in 1985-90 and 5% thereafter; and for foreign
costs, 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8% in 1987-90 and 5% thereafter.
4.19      In the past year Indonesia has entirely revised its tax system.
Among other things, it has introduced a uniform 10% tax on construction and a
10% value added tax (VAT) on manufactured and imported goods. This increase
is not generally reflected in 1985/86 budget estimates and at appraisal its
impact on project prices was not clear. Therefore, in estimating project
costs, all items covered by the VAT or construction tax have been increased by
10% to account for price increases expected as a result of the new taxes.
Local taxes on cattle, amour. ing to Rp 11,000/head, have been included in the
purchase price.
4.20      Given the limited capacity of agencies working in NTT/NTB, the
proposed project provides about 652 mm of domestic and 588 mm of expatriate
consultancy support (Annex I, Table 5). To reduce the financial burden on
Government, 90% of all expatriate assistance would be provided on grant (ADAB)
or part-grant (UNDP) and all other technical support would be reimbursed 100Z
from the proposed loan.
Financing Plan
4.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$33.0 million would cover 60% of the
cost of the project less taxes and the cost of reserve procurement vehicles
(US$59.0 minus US$2.4 million for taxes and US$1.6 million for reserve pro-
curement vehicles). Provision of 60% of total project costs is consistent
with current regional guidelines for Indonesia and would result in a Bank loan
being equivalent to 100% of foreign costs, other than the cost of reserve
procurement vehicles and expenditures covered by UNDP and ADAB, and about 47%
of local costs. External assistance (US$39.8 million) vauld cover 70% of
project costs less taxes, while 30% (US$16.8 million plus taxes of US$2.4
million) would be provided by the GOI.
4.22      Under the project, UNDP would provide US$3.4 million for the
PPIPD II component and the OI would provide US$2.7 million for the component
from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, as specified in a project docu-
ment signed by UNDP and GOI in August 1985. In addition, ADAB would provide
technical support for agricultural components and overseas traininig for
project staff, with a total estimated cost of about US$2.8 million, and it has
been agreed that 'OI would either reach a formal agreement with ADAB or make
alternative arrangements for provision of these funds from other sources as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. In September 1985, ADB's
Board approved the Eighth Roads Project, which contains funds totalling about



- 23 -
US$600,000 to cover the cost of rural road improvements in NTB. Detailed
designs for road construction would be financed from che Beak-assisted Highway
Betterment Project (Ln. 2404-IND), and the first year consultancy for cotton
research would be funded by the Bank-assisted Second National Agricultural
Research Project (Ln. 1840/Cr. 1014-IND). Capital investments for cottor.
stock seed production would be financed by the project, but recurrent expendi-
tures for seed production would be covered by the sale of foundation seed to
the PTPs. A financing plan by category of works is shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
IBRD    ADAB    UNDP   ADB    GOI    Total
Civil works                         11.1     -        -     0.6      5.2   16.9
VehicLes and equipment               2.3     -        -      -       2.5    4.8
Livertock and supplies               4.4     -        -      -       2.6    7.0
Services                            12.5    2.8       -      -      0.8   16.1
PPIPD II                             2.7     -       3.4     -      0.8    6.9
Overheads and administration          -      -        -      -       7.3    7.3
Total                         33.0    2.8      3.4    0.6    19.2   59.0
Flow of Funds
4.23      Funds for sectoral components would flow directly from the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) to the implementing agencies. Funds for the provincially
implemented components would flow to Bangda for release to the provinces.
Under the proposed cattle development component, BRI would act as a channeling
bank for GOI funds. The signing of a financing agreement between the GOI and
BRI and a subfinancing agreement between BRI and DGLS would be a condition of
disbursement against this component. In the past, Government has often
required PTPs to prefinance smallholder development from commercial credit
sources. However, the estates under the project are financially weak and to
limit their liabilities Government has agreed to provide funds for the pilot
cotton development component from the development budget. Government also
gave assurances at negotiations that funds would be provided for provincially
implemented components in addition to those funds needed to maintain current
levels of expenditure. At Government request, funds for the PPIPD II
component would be administered by OPE in New York.
Procurement
4.24      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.3 and summarized
below:



- 24 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT /a
(in US$ millions)
ICB      LCB       Other /b    N.A. /c    Total
Civil works
Total                       10.8        6.1       -            -          16.9
Bank                        (7.6)      (3.5)      -            _         (11.1)
Vehicles and equipment
Total                        2.5        0.7      1.6           -           4.8
Bank                        (1.8)      (0.5)      -            -          (2.3)
Cattle, agro-inputs
and supplies
Total                         -         6.2      0.8           -           7.0
Bank                          -        (4.0)    (0.4)                     (4.4)
Services (including PPIPD II)
Total                         -        12.9       -          10.1        23.0
Bank                          -        (9.6)      _          (5.6)      (15.2)
Overhead and administration
Total                                   -                     7.3          7.3
Bank                          -          -        -            -            -
Total Cost                     13.3       25.9      2.4         17.4         59.0
IBRD Loan                      (9.4)    (17.6)    (0.4)         (5.6)       (33.0)
/a   Including taxes.
7i   Other means of procurement including direct purchase of fertilizer,
prudent shopping and reserve procuremaent.
/c   Not applicable.  Land acquisition, research, training, travel and per
diem, overhead and administration, and technical assistance provided by
ADAB and UNDP.
Note: Figures in parentheses represent amounts to be disbursed from the
proposed loan.
(a) ICB. International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines would be used for construction of national and
provincial roads (US$10.8 million) and for road construction
equipment, farm machinery and laboratzry equipment (US$2.5
million). A preference limited to 15% of the CIF price of imported
goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
domestic manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.



- 25 -
(b) LCB. Rural road works and project facilities (US$6.1 million),
which are widely scattered and impractical to group into packages
large enough to attract international bidders, would be tendered
according to local procedures which have been reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank. Contracts would generally be under
US$200,000 and any contract over US$500,000 would be reviewed and
agreed by the Bank. Local competitive bidding using agreed
procedures would be used to procure small equipment (US$0.7 mil-
lion), cattle (US$5.8 million), furniture and office supplies
(US$0.4 million), domestic consulting services for road supervision,
accounting and financial control (US$2.0 million), and all
provincial services (US$10.9 million) other than those noted below.
(c) Reserve Procurement. As Government requires the purchase of locally
assembled motorcycles, four-wheel drive vehicles, buses and trucks
(US$1.6 million), and these are considerably more costly than
imported vehicles, these items would be regarded as reserve procure-
ment. However, since transport is a major constraint to development
in NTT and NTB and it is urgent that vehicles be procured on time
for this project, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would purchase those vehicles listed in Annex I, Table 6
in an appropriately phased manner but not later than by May 1,
1988. Vehicles for consultants engaged by ADAB and UNDP would be
provided by those agencies.
(d) Other. Purchases of minor implements and office supplies under
US$50,000 with an aggregate limit of US$500,000 could be obtained
through prudent shopping with three price quotations. Fertilizers
and pesticides (US$0.3 million) would be procured directly through
P.T. Pusri and P.T. Pertani, as the quantities required are too
small to be procured efficiently in separate lots, and research
needs may dictate last minute changes and considerable variation in
the materials used from year to year.
(e) Not Applicable. Land acquisition and research (US$0.8 million),
field development (US$0.2 million), and training (US$1.4 million)
would be carried out primarily on force account. Expatriate
technical assistance (US$3.7 million) provided by ADAB and UNDP
would be procured under their procedures. Travel and per diem
(US$1.9 million) would be paid in accordance with GOI guidelines.
Salaries and project allowances (US$2.4 million) and operating
expenditures (US$2.9 million) would be covered bv the GOI.
Consultants for the Irian Jaya Study (US$2.3 million, jointly
financed by UNDP and the Bank), the road and livestock studies
(US$0.5 million), and Bank-assisted expatriate technical support
(US$1.2 million) would be internationally recruited under procedures
consistent with the Bank Group Guidelines on use of consultants.
4.25      Procurement Review.  All contracts over US$450,000 must be cleared
by the State Secretariat (SEKNEG). Prior approval in principle has been
obtained from SEKNEG by DGH for road construction contracts, contracts for
road construction machinery and for the feasibility study for the Flores north



- 26 -
coast road. SEKNEG approval would not be required for contracts negotiated
with OPE or ADAB. Under the proposed project, contracts over US$500,000 which
amount to about US$14 million, or about one quarter of project costs, would be
subject to the Bank's prior review. These would include four or five con-
tracts for road improvement (US$10.8 million) and for construction supervision
(US$0.5 million), which would be reviewed by the Bank in conjunction with the
proposed Second Highway Betterment Project. It would also include three or
four contracts, each over US$500,000, for road construction equipment and farm
machinery (US$2.5 million). Virtually all other tendering would occur at the
provincial level and involve small contracts which would generally be under
US$100,000 each. These would be reviewed by the Bank on a sample basis.
Disbursement
4.26      The proposed alLocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex I,
TabLe 2, and summarized below.
(a) 70% of the cost of civil works;
(b) 100% of the cost of foreign expenditures for equipment, machinery
and supplies, 95% of the cost of locally manufactured goods procured
ex-factory and 70% of locaL expenditures for localLy procured items;
(c) 100% of the cost of consultant services and studies other than those
provided by ADAB and UNDP;
(d) 70% of the cost of cattle;
(e) 70% of the -:ost of research, demonstration activities and training;
(f) 70% of the cost of services, works and equipment for provincially
implemented components; and
(g) 100% of the Bank's contribution to consultant services and studies
provided by UNDP.
4.27      The Bank, ADAB, UNDP and ADB would disburse against separate items
of expenditure. At Government's request, US$2.7 million of Bank funds would
be disbursed directly to the UNDP on a schedule agreed between the GOI, UNDP
and the Bank and reflected in a memorandum of agreement between the GOI and
UNDP. This would cover part of the GOI's share of PPIPD II. Disbursement
would normally be against standard documentation, but statements of
expenditure (SOE) would be used for disbursement against research, verifi-
cation trials and demonstration activities, training and provincially imple-
mented components (see Annex IV). To accelerate implementation, a Lembor
Settlement Study has already been carried out by Government. Retroactive
financing of up to US$60,000 equivalent would be provided to cover
expenditures for the study incurred after Marc. 31, 1985. Disbursement
requests would be submitted by the agencies to MOF every three months or when
expenditures total US$100,000, whichever is sooner. To assist agencies to
keep adequate accounts, domestic consultants would be hired for bookkeeping
and accounting functions and the employment of suitably qualified accountants



- 27 -
would be a condition of disbursement against the research, cotton development,
cattle development and provincially implemented components.
4.28      An estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex I,
Table 3. Estimated disbursements are consistent with the disbursement
profiles for Indonesian agriculture and rural development projects for the
first three project years, but accelerate thereafter. Complete disbursement
of loan proceeds would extend over eight Bank fiscal years. This is con-
sidered reasonable since 85% of aLl expenditures are budgeted in the first
three project years and steps have been taken to ensure adequate bookkeeping
and the timely submission of disbursement applications. Project works are
expected to be completed by April 1992 and the loan closing date is October
31, 1992.
Accounts and Audits
4.29      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) separate accounts
and SOEs would be maintained for the project; (b) the accounts and SOEs, and
accounts of BRI related to the project would be audited annually by indepen-
dent auditors or firms acceptable to the Bank; and (c) these audited accounts
and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank by the involved agencies
(AARD, DCE, DCLS, DGH, and Bangda) within nine months of the close of each GOI
fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01      Coordination.  Organizational arrangements are shown in Figure
5.1. At the national level the project would be coordinated by a Steering
Committee consisting, among o.ners, of the Deputy Chairman for Regional
Development (BAPPENAS) and heads of the main implementing agencies: Bangda,
Cipta Karya, AARD, DCE, DGLS, DGH, and the Planning Bureau in the Ministry of
Agriculture, and representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The Steering
Committee would be convened twice a year by Bangda to review project progress,
provide policy guidance and resolve outstanding issues. A Technical Committee
consisting of representatives of the implementing agencies would also be
formed to handle day-to-day project matters. Under the existing government
system, the BAPPEDAs are responsible for interagency coordination at the
provincial level.
5.02      To facilitate coordination, the Steering Committee/Technical
Committee would be served by a Secretariat, located in Bangda, which would
provide administrative services to the Steering Committee, coordinate inter-
agency meetings and be the liaison point for the Bank. It would also compile
the semi-annual reports of each implementing agency and submit them to the
Steering Committee and the Bank, and prepare the draft project completion
report
5.03      Tmplementation.  Sectoral components would be carried out by project
managers .n each of the line agencies and provincially implemented components



Figure 5.1:                                           INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Coordinating Mechanisms
[Seerng Committee
Tochnlcal Comnmiltee|
I
r                      T-                     r                                                      T                                                                          c o
r-  -                                                                             r                            I~ -  -  -  - L                        IEV
I~ ~   IL__                                                                                            I                       I
WD  E                                                            Bangck3                       DGHS         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONA LEVL
KanWIl/Difls                                        KanwAl/Dlnos     r -PROViNCIAL LEVL
1             I _  _  __  _       _  __  _  __   _       _  JAARD  - Aency for Agricultural Research & Developrnent
DGE      - Directorate General of Estates
DGLS     - Directorate General of Livestock
Line Agency Responsibility                                                            DGH       - Directorate General of Highways
-  -          -    Coordinotlon                                                                         DGRD    - Drectoratae General of Regional Dewelpment
DGHS    - Directorate General of Human Settlements
Kanwil   - Regional Oflice of o Sectoal Agency
Dinas    - ProvIncial Offices
BAPPEDA  - Provinciol Planning Agencies
Word Bank-27667



- 29 -
would be the responsibility of project managers in the BAPPEDAs working
closely with the line agency (kanwil) chiefs and the provincial offices
(dinas). All project managers would be appointed by May 1, 1986, and assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations to this effect. To ensure timely
implementation of the provincial components, a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
has been formed within Bangda responsible for follow-up, fund flows and
reporting, and would serve as the project Secretariat. Senior officials have
been nominated to head the PCU/Secretariat and assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the PCU would have its own space and a full-time staff, and
a qualified local accountant would be employed by the PCU to maintain records
and train staff. To further strengthen the PCU, (a) a senior management
consultant would be engaged, (b) an expatriate financial advisor would be
provided to Bangda under PPIPD II, and (c) Bangda has agreed to use existing
USAID support to explore solutions to fund flow problems which have occurred
in the past. Key staff have already been appointed.
Research
5.04      General.  All agricultural research financed by the GOI is coordi-
nated by AARD. This agency was established in 1974 and includes five research
coordinating centers organized along commodity lines, 23 research institutes,
42 research stations and 151 experimental farms. The Research Coordinating
Center for Food Crops at Bogor and the Research Station for Rainfed Food Crops
at Maros would directly oversee project work, and support would also be provi-
ded by the Research Institute for Tobacco and Fiber Crops at Malang (BALITAS),
by the proposed livestock substation at Kupang, and by other institutes and
substations as required. When initially organized, AARD was severely con-
strained by staff st-rtages and a crash program has been undertaken to train
and upgrade staff. Today the agency has about 1,500 professional researchers,
about 95 with Ph.D.s. Many of these are recent graduates with limited field
experience and for this reason supplementary technical support is provided by
ADAB for this component. Details are available in the Working Papers.
5.05      Farming Systems Research.  Under the project an eastern islands
implementation unit (EIIU) would be established to carry out the farming sys-
tems survey, coordinate cotton and farming systems research, and develop an
overall research progam for NTT/NTB. The EIIU would consist of divisions for
administration, finance, research planning and construction, and a liaison
office in Jakarta and it would be headed by a senior researcher from Maros.
This EIIU team would work closely with, and potentially provide an umbrella
for (a) the livestock and food crop substations already in NTT and East Timor;
(b) a nongovernmental, university-based committee (KEPAS) which is studying
existing farming systems in the area; and (c) bilateral ager.cies including
USAID and ADAB which are undertaking independent project-specific research in
NTT. TORs for the farming systems survey have been agreed and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a detailed inception report outlining the
proposed program of agricultural research would be submitted to the Bank for
review and approval by June 30, 1987.
5.06      Cotton Research.  In order to plan and organize a sound cotton
research program, a cotton research expert of international standing would be
employed for one month, pre-project, to assist AARD/BALITAS to draw up a short



- 30 -
and medium-term research pLan and would review the program at one year inter-
vals thereafter. AARD wouLd also engage an agroclimatologist to work closely
with the PTPs in Lombok and Flores and with the Ministry of Communications to
analyze current weather data and to calculate confiderce limits on rainfall
probabilities. The location of weather recording stations would be reviewed
and recommendations would be made on siting new equipment to help identify the
best cotton growing areas in Nusa Tenggara. Specialists on soils and seed
technology would be engaged to assist staff at Malang to set up new procedures
to deal with data from demonstration areas and from verification trials.
Although the cotton development component is limited to a pilot project of
three years, at which time a decision would be taken on an expanded program,
funds have been provided for farming systems and cotton research over the
five-year project period.
Cotton Development
5.07      Pilot activities for cotton development would be largely the respon-
sibility of two estates, PTP XXVI and PTP XXVII, which have been given the
responsibility for promoting the crop in NTT and NTB. Major activities guided
by the PTPs would be as follows:
(a) Demonstration Activities. In each of the 16 demonstration areas,
PTP staff would select a number of smalL plots totaling 5 ha for
demonstration activities in farmers' fields. The demonstration
areas gould be used to test and extend appropriate technologies and
to train extension staff.
(b) Verification Trials. The PTPs would lay out verification trials in
Lombok and in Flores to test pest control practices, plant popula-
tion levels, fertilizer application and planting distances. Trial
areas would provide a focal point for contact between the PTPs and
AARD.
Cc) Stock Seed Production. The PTPs would also be responsible for stock
seed production at Menangabaris in East Lombok (PTP XXVII) and at
Asembagus in East Java (PTP XXVI). Production would be improved by
mechanizivg land preparation, providing supplementary irrigation,
and introducing delinting equipment at the ginneries.
(d) Training. The PTPs would construct dormitory/training blocks at the
Maumere and Puyung ginneries as bases for the training of PTP and
provincial DCE staff and 'armer leaders, and they would offer one-
week training courses for 200 farmer leaders and about 150 PTP and
DGE staff annually. Trainers would be drawn from regular DGE and
AARD/BALITAS staff.
5.08      At the end of the three-year technical assistance period, a review
of cotton prospects in Nusa Tenggara would be carried out by the Bank to
determine the feasibility of investing in a further smallholder project.
Basic data for this review would be compiled by the PTPs and would include an
analysis of rainfall data in the project area; records of yields from
verification trials, demonstration areas and farmers fields; results from



- 31 -
relevant research; and an economic analysis of costs and returns to cotton
production. A new financial analysis would also be undertaken by the DGE for
each PTP. To ensure adequate evaluation, FTP XXVI and PTP XXVII would compile
all data and material for the evaluation of the cotton pilot scheme and submit
these reports to the DGE by July 1989. A final report including financial
analyses would be submitted by the DGE to the Bank by September 30, 1989 and
art assurance was obtained at negotiations to this effect.
Cattle Development
5.09      General.  Cattle development under the proposed project would be
carried out by the DGLS and would be guided by a technical steering committee
within that DG. Operational guidance would be provided by a project manage-
ment office in Jakarta which would be responsible for preparation of annual
budgets, procurement, financial control, and monitoring and evaluation. Day-
to-day management of the project would be undertaken by PMUs in Kupang and
Mataram. These units would be responsible for the training and supervision of
field teams and for cattle management and the distribution of progeny in the
breeding program. One field team (Satuan Petugas Lapangan or SATGAS) would be
formed to oversee the distribution and management of about 600 cattle. SATGAS
staff together with village heads would recruit and select farmers, and an
assurance was obtained at negotiations that communities and rarmers would be
chosen in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank. For both the
breeding and fattening programs SATCAS teams would assist with credit
application, help form farmers groups, train farmers in forage and livestock
husbandry, distribute animals, and monitor their health and productivity. In
the breeding program they would also collect offspring for redistribution. To
improve calf return, the SATGAS teams would organize all potential recipients
into farmer groups when the first animals are distributed. Farmers receiving
first and second generation cattle would be a part of these groups and would
be expected to maintain pressure on their neighbors to return offspring for
redistribution.
5.10      Credit Administration.  Credit arrangements for this component would
follow those in the Bank-assisted Smallholder Cattle Development Project (Ln.
2628-IND). The recipients of breeding cattle would be required to return two
calves, within six years, for each cow received and those receiving a cow and
bull would pay back three calves in seven years. These offspring would be
redistributed for breeding or fattening. Farmers would sign repayment agree-
ments with both DGLS and BRI and accounts would be established for each farmer
at the nearest BRI office. The PMU would notify BRI when calves are returned
at which time the account would be reduced by the amount specified in the
repayment agreements. For the fattening programs, farmers would repay capital
and 12X interest in cash to BRI when the animals are sold. To reduce adminis-
tration costs, the DCLS would train village cooperatives to manage animal
collection and redistribution, and for second generation cattle BRI would,
where possible, open accounts with eligible cooperatives rather than indi-
vidual farmers.



- 32 -
Road Improvement
5.11      The roads component would be implemented by the DCH in the Ministry
of Public Works. Under the proposed project consuLtants would be engaged to
(a) supervise road construction in Flores and make recommendations on the
amount and type of maintenance required; (b) train the provincial public works
staff in Flores in the operation and maintenance of the equipment provided
under the project; and (c) prepare TORs for detailed engineering design for
the settlement roads in Lembor, supervise construction of Lembor roads and
make recommendations on maintenance. These consultants would be financed from
the proposed project, but engaged and supervised in conjunction with the
ongoing and proposed Highway Betterment Projects. An assurance was obtained
from Government that all roads constructed or improved under the project would
be adequately maintained.
Provincially Implemented Components
5.12      Under the proposed project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) would be
established in the BAPPEDA of each project province. These PMUs would be
headed by senior government officials and have their own offices and full time
staff. In July of each year, the PMUs working with the BAPPEDAs and the
various provincial offices would prepare an Annual Operating Plan (AOP) for
the next fiscal -ear (beginning April 1). AOPs would be prepared for both the
Agricultural Support Services and Area Development components. They would
include investment proposals, budgets, staffing plans, and economic justi-
fication. AOPs would be submitted to the PCU in Bangda which would review
proposals with technical working groups from the Ministry of Agriculture
(para. 5.13) and Cipta Karya. When approved, AOPs would be returned to the
provinces and would provide the basis for preparing project budgets. These
procedures are similar to those used successfully in several bilateral
projects. Project receipts would be compiled and summarized by the provincial
PMUs and a summary of expenditures would be forwarded to the Bangda PCU where
it would be reviewed and forwarded to the Ministry of Finance.
5.13      To ensure the technical viability of the agricultural support
services component, the Planning Bureau in the Ministry of Agriculture has
formed a technical working group to assist the provinces in identifying
priority projects and monitoring project result<. The committee would help
coordinate sectoral and provincial components, provide technical guidance to
the BAPPEDAs, assist in the review of proposed AOPs and monitor technical
achievements under the project. A core team would visit both NTT and NTB in
June (prior to the preparation of the AOPs) to review the past year's results
and discuss the forthcoming proposals. This would broaden the perspective of
planners, and permit provincial officials to make their needs known to Jakarta
officials.
5.14      Draft AOPs for the first project year were reviewed at negotiations
and found satisfactory to the Bank with minor revisions. At the same time it
was agreed that (a) funds could be reallocated between expenditure categories
in approved AOPs if justified, (b) the use of funds could be deferred for a
year if some proposals were not yet adequately developed, and (c) funds not
fully utilized in years 1-3 could be budgeted in year 4 although it was
assumed this wiould be a small part of the whole.



- 33 -
PPIPD II
5.15      PPIPD II would be executed by the UNDP's Office of Project Execution
(OPE) with the World Bank acting as associated agency. In this capacity, the
World Bank would advise the executing agency on such matters as preparation of
TORs, design of work programs, and appointment of key personnel. It would
also participate in tripartite reviews of the project and provide technical
advice as required. Under procedures agreed with the GOI, OPE would hire
technical advisers to be stationed in Cipta Karya and Bangda, and regional
development advisers to be stationed in NTT, NTB, Southeast Sulawesi and Irian
Jaya. The National Project Coordinator and his deputies, with the assistance
of the Chief Technical Advisor, would identify short-term consuLtants to be
hired by OPE. These procedures would permit consultants to be hired more
quickly than under standard government procedures.
5.16      The firm undertaking the Irian Jaya Study would be hired by OPE to
follow TORs which have been reviewed and agreed with GOI and the Bank. Timely
implementation of this study would require that a national resource survey
undertaken in the Ministry of Transmigration be provided to Cipta Karya by the
time the consultants arrive and an assurance was obtained at negotiations that
this report together with relevant background material would be provided by
May 1, 1986.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.17      Under the proposed project, implementing agencies would be respon-
sible for monitoring physical progress, project expenditures and project
impact and for submitting semi-annual reports to the Steering Committee via
the project Secretariat in Bangda. PhysicaL progress would be routinely
assessed by all agencies and consultants have been provided for financial
control. In addition, each agency wouLd determine the number of benefi-
ciaries, cost per beneficiary and the benefits produced as a basis for
evaluating returns to the different components. In order to ensure timely
reporting, provincial agencies would submit semi-annual rep.rts to their
central agencies and/or BAPPEDAs by April 1st and October 1st. Central
agencies would review and revise these reports and submit them to the project
Secretariat on May 15th and November 15th. The Secretariat would then
summarize and distribute these reports by July 1st and Janurry 1st when the
Steering Committee would be convened to discuss issues and cirections. Copies
of all reports would also be submitted to the Bank. In addition, a mid-term
review of all project activities would be held in mid-1989, Locusing
especially on the cotton development and provincially implemented compo-
nents. The Secretariat (PCU) would be responsible for compilinig the final
reports of all agencies for the project completion report.



- 34 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Agricultural Production and MarketiiLg
6.01      Cattle.  The major project output would be cattle.  During the 20-
year project life there would be an offtake of about 205,000 cattle and about
3,200 tons of liveweight beef would be produced. TotaL incremental stock on
hand at the end of year 20 wouli be about 74,000 head. These estimates assume
productivity increases when cattle are taken from traditional rangeland ..
placed in smallholder herds which have better management and nutrition, higher
calving and lower mortality rates. Assumed productivity increases are summar-
ized in Table 6.1 and detailed in Annex II, Table 1 and Staff Working Papers.
Table 6.1: CATTLE PRODUCTIVITY WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
Without          With
project         project       Difference
Productivity coefficients (Z)
Calving rate                              70               78             +8
Calf mortality (yr 1)                     25                 5           -20
Adult mortality                            3                 2             -1
Offtake rate                              14               23              +9
Offtake cattle (number)
(over 20 yrs)
From initial distribution           106,000          193,500         87,500
From first generation calves              -          117,500        117,500
TotaL                              106,000          311,000        205 000
Total stock at yr. 20 (number)          66,500          140,000         74,000
Fattening in Liveweight (ton)
(over 20 years)
From initial distribution                  -              480            480
From first generation calves                            2,770          2,770
Total.                                               3,250          3,250
6.02      Market prospects for cattle produced under the project are good.
The provinces of NTT and NTB are a major source of cattle supply for the
country and in recent years some 65,000 large animals, mainly cattle, have
been exported annually from these provinces. Under the projec-t, most of the
second generation calves returned by smallholders would be redistribute:d
within the region for fattening or breeding. Fattened live cattle would be
used for local consumption ar.1 for export to urban areas such as Surabaya and



- 35 -
Jakarta where demand for beef is increasing. Breeding cattle are also in high
demand, both in the region and in transmigration areas such as Sumatra and
Kalimantan. Sufficient quarantine stations and holding grounds would be built
under the project to meet cattle shipping requirements.
6.03      Cotton.  Cotton is an import substitution crop and the nation only
produces about 2% of ics dcmestic requirement. The cotton area in NTT/NTB is
about 5,700 ha, compared with a target area of 60,000 ha projected by PTP XXVI
and PTP XXVII, and two modern cotton gins with an annual capacity of about
24,000 tons of seed cotton have recently been established. Most cotton is
sold in Surabaya, but there is a strong interest in producing finished pro-
ducts in NTT and NTB as well. Under these conditions, there are no immediate
limits on the amount of domestic cotton which could be locally absorbed.
6.04      Other Crops.  Although amounts cannot be quantified, the production
of other crops including rice, corn, mungbean, coffee, coconut, fruits and
vegetables is expected to increase as a result of project activities such as
farming system research, improved training and extension, the provisin- of
draft cattle, road improvement, and provincially-financed agricultural
schemes. This incremental production would be in small quantities, dispersed
over a large area and easily absorbed by local markets.
Farm Prices, Incomes and Cost Recovery
6.05      Input-Output Prices.  All farm inputs and outputs in the economic
analyses as well as in farm income analyses are valued in constant end-1985
prices. Since Bali cattle are not internationalLy traded, the economic price
for these breeding cattle is approximated by their financial price of about
Rp 800/kg liveweight in the provinces of NTT/NTB. The economic price of
unskilled labor (for farming and civil works) is valued at a shadow wage rate
of about 50% of the average daily wage in view of the small farm size and the
limited opportunities for employment particularly in the dry season which
lasts 7-9 months. Financial pricr for all commodities are based on actual
1985 farmgate prices. Since cattle markets have not been established in the
cattle distribution areas, the financial price of an animal returned for the
repayment of BRI credit is assumed to be the same as the average purchase cost
of the original animal or about Rp 170,000, a weighted average of delivered
costs which vary from Rp 140,000 to RD 200,000 per head. This assumes that
the returned heifers will be redistributed to neighboring farmers whose cost
of getting such an animal would not be less than the original purchase cost.
The farugate price of both bulls and heifers retained by the farmers has also
been projected at about Rp 800/kg liveweight (Annex II,
Table 4).
6.06      Farm Incomes.  A farm budget analysis has been undertaken for four
farm models based on type of farming (lowland or upland) and size of kolding
(0.5 ha to 2.0 ha). Farm incomes and physical input-output for crop
production are summarized in Annex II, Tables 2 and 3. In these models, farm
income varies according to the number and type of cattle to be distributed
under the pr iect and the unquantified impact from other project components is
not taken into account. The present annual per capita incomes of various model
farms range from US$37 to US$65, which is low compared to the absolute poverty



- 36 -
line of US$10Z per capita in the country. This income level is expected to
increase between 12-19% without the project, but, in the future with project,
if only cattle distribution is considered, the income level would increase by
US$65 to US$135 or 57Z-110%. It is financially profitable for farmers to
participate in breeding and fattening programs which generate a financial
return of 30% and 60% respectively (Annex II, Tables 5 and 6). Farmers'
actual incomes with the project would be even higher if unquantified income
effects of other project components were considered.
6.07      Cost Recovery.  The cost recovery index for the cattle development
component has been calculated at about 40%. The GOI would receive incremental
revenues from (a) sales of returned cattle; (b) farmers' repayment for distri-
buted fatteners; and (c) taxes from incremental cactle marketing (Annex II,
Table 7). This is in line with other projects in Indonesia such as the Small-
holder Cattle Development Project and is acceptable given the low incomes of
the project smallholders. There is no direct cost recovery for the research,
cotton development, road improvement, or provincially implemented components
although improved farmer incomes and productivity would eventually raise the
value of land and increase land taxes.
Project Benefits
6.08      General.  The project would help determine viable investment options
for agricultural development in two of the poorest provinces in Indonesia.
These activities would increase national output, enhance regional development,
improve farm income and employment opportunities, and upgrade the local
governments' capacity to plan, execute, and evaluate their development pro-
grams. Major benefits and beneficiaries of the project are summarized in
Table 6.2, and described in the following paragraphs.
6.09      Cattle Development.  The primary economic benefit of the cattle
development component would be the improved productivity from an increased
number of breeders and fatteners. Total economic benefits are estimated at
about US$0.2 million in year 3, US$1.4 million in year 10 and about
US$4.2 million in year 19 of the project. About 71% of these benefits (in
present value) are attributable to increased offtake, 17Z to increas-d stock,
and 12% to cattle fattening. Some 45,000 smallholder families would directly
benefit from cattle breeding and fattening. These beneficiaries would be
carefully selected small farmers with incomes below the poverty line. All
project costs for cattle development would go to this target group.
6.10      In addition, there are a number of non-quantified benefits attribu-
table to cattle development. Promotion of increased legume plantings for for-
age would contribute to conservation of soil on steep lands, and a reduction
in the number of rangeland animals would also slow erosion in the area. In
addition, productivity increases in free grazing animals could be expected if
removal of breeding animals reduces grazing pressure and improves nutrition.
The value of the incremental crop production, due to the availability of
animal draft power and increased manure, is also important although it is off-
set to some extent by the cost of family labor for tending cattle. It is
estimated that there would be about 122,000 cattle in the project area and
about 35,000 jobs in cattle husbandry would be created in year 15 of the
project.



- 37 -
Table 6.2: BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
Benefits                                                    Estimates
Cattle Development
Herd stock under project (after yr. 15)       More than 121,600 animals
Incremental offtake                           About 205,000 animals
Incremental fattened beef                     About 3,250 tons liveweight
Incremental employment opportunities          About 35,000 man-years
Road Improvement
Savings in vehicle operating costs            About US$13.3 miLlion
Savings in maintenance costs                  About US$3.5 million
Savings in users' time                        About US$7.1 million
Incremental employment                        About US$1.6 miilion man-days
(during cor.struction
period)
Other components                                 Not quantifieJ
Beneficiaries
Direct Beneficiaries (from cattle                About 45,000 families
distribution)                                   (target group)
Indirect and unidentified beneficiaries
(from other project components)               About 450,000 families
(including 45,000 directly
benefited families)
Beneficiaries below poverty line
Direct beneficiaries                       100% of those selected
under the project
Other beneficiaries                        About 90%
Project cost per benefitted family
Direct beneficiaries                          About US$280/family
Other beneficiaries                           About US$55/family
Project costs directed to the poor               About 92Z
6.11      Road Improvement.  About 190 km of main (national and provincial)
roads would be improved under the project. This package is the minimum
required and justifiable because (a) existing road conditions are very poor
and impose a constraint for project development; (b) the GOI has already
accorded high priority to improving these roads during the fourth five-year
plan (1984-89) and Bank financing would ensure their early completion; and (c)
the improvemeit of each link of these roads is economically viable. Economic
benefits of the proposed main road improvements are derived frcrn net savings
on vehicle operating costs, users' time costs, and road maintenance costs,



- 38 -
comparing with and without project cases. The criteria and procedures for
measuring these benefits are consistent with those of the Highway Betterment
Project (Ln. 2404-IND). Current daily traffic on these roads is relatively
low (about 100 to 300 vehicles), but regular traffic is expected to increase
at an annual growth rate of about 10% during 1985-1990, and about 8% after
1991, and project development activities are expected to generate traffic of
about 20-50Z above the regular traffic growth on various links of these main
roads. Generated traffic benefits are assumed to be about 50% of those from
regular traffic. A summary of data on traffic densities, road conditions,
construction costs and economic rates of return for each road link is shown in
Annex II, Table 8.
6.12      Cotton Development.  The cotton development component is a pilot
project and hence no formal economic analysis has been carried out. Neverthe-
less, the inclusion of this component under the project has an economic justi-
fication. In recent years, PTP XXVI and PTP XXVII have faced an annuaL loss
of about Rp 600 million (US$600,000) because of low cotton yields, excess
capacity of gins, and low recovery of cotton credit. This loss couLd be sig-
nificantly reduced if reasons and remedies for low cotton yield were known.
The proposed cotton development activities are expected to serve this purpose
and to reduce losses to the PTPs. In addition, results from this pilot compo-
nent would enable Government to make a clear decision on further develop-
ment. If results were negative the program would be curtailed, thus limiting
further losses; if successful, the stage would be set for further economic
development.
6.13      Farming Systems Research.  The benefits of farming systems research
are unquantifiable and since it is also a pilot project no economic analysis
of this component has been carried out. However, the proposed research activ-
ities would help to develop more profitable farming activities and improved
production of food crops, cash crops and livestock in order to increase farm
incomes. The total investment costs of the component, about US$6.7 million or
about US$7 per farm family, would be justified if each farm family benefitting
indirectly would increase its income by only two US dollars per year during
the 20-year project life. This should be achievable in view of a low farm
income level at present and the area's considerable development potential.
6.14      Provincial Activities.  A total of about US$10 million would be
provided under the project for NTT and NTB provinces to finance agricultural
support activities and two pilot area development schemes. Since these activ-
ities would be prepared by local governments on a year-to-year basis and they
would include various small development schemes in different localities,
economic benefits cannot be quantified. However, this component would
generate agricultural production, upgrade the local government's capacity to
plan, execute, monitor and evaluate agricultural development programs, and
benefit the poorest farmers in project provinces.
Economic Analysis
6.15      Major Assumptions.  Economic rates for return (ERRs) have been
calcuated for the cattle development and road improvement components. Major
assumptions used for calculating ERRs are as follows:



- 39 -
(a) Economic life. A 20-year project life is used for cattle develop-
ment and a 10-year life for road improvement. These are in line
with other similar projects assisted by the Bank in Indonesia.
(b) Foreign exchange rate. A rate of US$1.00 to Rp 1,100 has been
adopted.
(c) Economic costs. All economic costs are derived from project
(financial) costs excluding price contingencies and taxes but
including subsidies and O&M costs. Shadow prices are applied for
unskilled labor.
6.16      Economic Rates of Return.  With these assumptions and the price
levels stated in para. 6.05 the economic rates of return are estimated at
about 18% for cattle development and about 24% on average for road improve-
ment. The ERR for individual road links varies from 10% to 431 depending on
the existing conditions and traffic densities on the link. These figures are
conservative because many direct and indirect unquantified benefits
attributable to these activities have been excluded. The ERR for cattle
distribution is higher than that in the Smallholder Cattle Development Project
(15% withoat land cultivation benefits), because the cost of moving cattle is
less, but the average ERR for roads is lower than that in the Bank-assisted
Highway Betterment Project where ERRs were all over 251, as these roads were
mainly in areas of ava and Sumatra where traffic densities are high in
relation to other areas in the Outer Islands. Nevertheless the ERR is
considered acceptable, particularly for such a poor area.
6.17      Sensitivity Analysis.  Crossover (or switching) values for a 101
discount rate, the assumed opportunity cost of capital (OCC), were calculated
for a number of variables crucial to the success of the project. As shown in
Table 6.3, both the cattle development and road improvement components of the
project could experience considerable cost overruns or reduced benefits and
remain above the 101 OCC. For cattle development, a 70X increase in invest-
ment cost or a 40% decreane in total benefits would be required to reduce the
component's ERR to 101.  The economic value of cattle has been projected at
Rp 800/kg of incremental liveweight, but the project would still be economi-
cally viable if the price were as low as Rp 360/kg. The effect of cattle
fattening or herd size on the overall ERR is insignificant, and there would
have to be a 57Z reduction of incremental offtake to render the project
marginal. The average ERR of the road improvement component would remain
above the 10% OCC with a 76Z cost overrun or a 43% reduction of total benefits
(Table 6.3).



- 40 -
Table 6.3: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal  Crossover      Changes
Critical variables             Unit           value      value           Z
(A)        (B)     (B - A-1)xlOO
Cattle development
Breeding benefits           Rp million      8,313      3,538             -57
Average price of cattle    Rp/kg              800        360             -57
Investment cost             Rp million      6,863     11,648              70
Total benefits              Rp million    11,648       6,863             -41
Road improvement
Savings in VOC              Rp million      6,710      1,411             -78
Savings in maintenance      Rp million      1,939     -3,360            -273
Savings in time costs       Rp million      3,593     -1,705            -147
Investment cost             Rp million      6,944     12,243              76
Total benefits              Rp million    12,243       6,944             -43
Environmental and Social Impact
6.18      The proposed project would have a strong positive impact on the
environment particularly in degraded areas of NTT. It would encourage
afforestation and terracing with lamtoro and promote research which would
improve the ecological soundness of existing farming sy -Ms. It would also
remove cattle from large free grazing herds and give prexerence to their
redistribution in areas where they would be tethered and stall fed; and
supplementary forage would be established by all farmers before they received
cattle. Under the cotton development component, special attention would be
given to reducing pesticide use and introducing pest scouting and natural
predators; and courses in pesticide management would be provided to reduce the
possibility of harm to unsophisticated pesticide users. Although the area
consists of numerous ethnic groups, all groups practice sedentary cultivation
in part, and there are no unusual problems of minority peoples in the area.
Women, who share agricultural responsibilities and help manage household
incomes, would benefit from income generating components. The study in Irian
Jaya would focus on strategies to benefit the local people and include an
inventory of human resources. Both environmentalists and social scientists
are included in the study team.
Project Risks
6.19      There are a number of uncertainties about appropriate agricultural
packages for NTT and NTH, but the risks associated with these uncertainties
are minimized by supporting pilot projects and research programs prior to
large-scale smallholder involvement. There are also organizational risks
associated with the use of Bangda as coordinating agency and the use of
provincial agencies to support agricultural development. To reduce these risks



- 41 -
an office has been created in Bangda to facilitate fund flows, and coordi-
nation and consultant support would be provided. Measures to strengthen each
of the BAPPEDAs include provision of an expatriate advisor to provide
technical guidance and a qualified local accountant to maintain project
accounts and train provincial staff. There is also a 3-year limit on the
provincially implemented component so that possible cost and time overruns
would not delay the project as a whole. With these safeguards, the
implementation capacity of the local governments would be improved and the
chance of failure minimized. In addition, major sectoral components would be
implemented by capable line agencies, .nd the project has been formulated so
that project components are relatively independent of one another and delays
in one component would not affect implementation of the others. Finally, to
avoid problems encountered in the Bank-assisted Rural Roads Development
Project (Ln. 2083-IND), the proposed road improvement component would be
implemented by DGH, an experienced executing agency, and assisted by
consultants. Major road contracts would be tendered through ICB with pre-
qualified contractors and arrangements have been made for adequate road
maintenance. These provisions would ensure adequate quality of the proposed
works.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Assurances Obtained
7.01      Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) about 60 rural extension centers and 40 animal health posts would be
constructed and equipped in NTT/NTB by April 30, 1992 and extension
staff for these would be recrui.ed and trained (para. 3.10);
(b) cattle would be purchased, transported and distributed to
communities and farmers in accordance with criteria agreed by the
Bank (paras. 4.08 and 5.09);
(c) funds would be provided for provincially implemented components in
addition to those funds needed to maintain current levels of
expenditure (para. 4.23);
(d) the Government would agree to purchase those vehicles required by
the project and listed in Annex I, Table 6 in an appropriately
phased manner but not later than by May 1, 1988 (para. 4.24);
(e) separate accounts and SOEs would be maintained for the project;
these accounts and SOEs, and the accounts of BRI related to the
project would be audited annually by independent auditors or firms
acceptable to the Bank; and these audited accounts and audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank by the involved agencies (AARD, DGE,
DGLS, DCH and Bangda) within nine months of the close of each COI
fiscal year (para. 4.29);



- 42 -
(f) all project Line agencies and BAPPEDAs would appoint project
managers by May 1, 1986 (para. 5.03);
(g) the PCU in Bangda would have its own space and a full-time staff and
a qualified accountant would be employed for financial control
(para. 5.03);
(h) a detailed inception report outlining the proposed program of
agricultural research would be submitted to the Bank for review and
approval by June 30, 1987 (para. 5.05);
(i)  a final report on the cotton pilot scheme including a financial
analysis of the PTPs would be submitted to the Bank by the DGE by
September 30, 1989 (para. 5.08);
(j) all roads constructed or improved under the project would be
adequately maintained (para. 5.11); and
(k) a national resource survey undertaken in the Ministry of Transmigra-
tion, together with relevai:t background material, would be provided
to Cipta Karya by the Ministry of Transmigration by May 1, 1986
(para. 5.16).
Condition of Effectiveness
7.02      Prior to effectiveness the GOI would either (a) reach agreement with
ADAB on technical assistance for sectoral components or (b) make alternative
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of these funds (para.
4.22).
Conditions of Disbursement
7.03      The following actions would be conditions of disbursement for
project components:
(a) the signing of a financing agreement between BI (on behalf of GOI)
and BRI and a subfinancing agreement between BRI and DGLS, both
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement against
the livestock distribution component (para. 4.23); and
(b)  the employment of suitably qualified accountants would be a
condition of disbursement against the research, cotton development,
cattle development and provincially-implemented components (para.
4.27).
Recommendation
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project wouid
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$33.0 million equivalent with a 20-year matu-
rity, including a grace period of 5 years. The borrower would be the Republic
of Indonesia.



A1U=E I
- 43 -                                                     TRble I
INDONESIA
NUSA TUIGGC AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJEcT
Sumary Accounts by Budget Year
(US$ nillion)
Totals including cnntingencie /
198578S/b 86/S7    1987788   1988/89   1989190   1990/91 lotal
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Buildings and Project Works
Project faillties                                    -        2.5       0.2         -                   -       2.7
Eouse for REC staff                                  -        0.6       0.7        0.7        -         -       2.0
Livestock facilities                                          0.3       0.1         -         -         -       0.4
Subtotal Buildings and Project Works             -        3.4       1.0       0.7         -         -       5.1
Roads
iiatonal and Provincial Roads                          -        1.2       4.8        4.4       0.5        -       10.9
Rural Roads in NTB                                     -         -        0.5        0.5        -         -        1.0
Subtotal Roado                                   -        1.2       5.3        4.9       0.5        -      11.9
Vehiclee. Equipment and Supplies
Reserved procurement vehicles                          -        1.1       0.2        0.3        -         -        1.6
Road construction equipment and farm machinery         -        2.0       0.2         -         -         -       2.2
LAboratory and other equipment                        0.2       0.7       0.1         -         -         -        1.0
hgro-inputs                                            -        0.1       0.1        0.1        -         -       0.3
Furniture and office mchines                           -        0.2       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1      0.6
Supplies                                              0.1       0.1       0.1         -         -         -       0.3
Subtotal Vehicles, Equipment 1 Supplies         0.3       4.2       0.8        0.5       0.1       0.1      6.0
Cattle                                                   _        0.3       1.3        1.5       1.4       1.3       5.8
Services
Technical Assistance
Local consultants                                    -        0.2       0.9        0.6       0.1       0.1       1.9
Expatriate consultants                              0.4       1.8       1.6        0.7       0.3       0.1      4.9
Subtotal Technical Assistance                  0.6        2.0       2.5        1.3       0.4       0.2      6.8
Studies
Irian Jays stidy                                      -        1.1       1.2         -         -         -       2.3
Other studies                                         -        0.2       0.3         -         -         -       0.5
Subtotal Studies                                 -        1.3       1.5        -          -         -       2.8
Other Servtces
Land acquisition and registration                    -        0.1        -                    -         -       0.1
Research                                             -        0.1       0.1        0.2       0.2       0.1      0.7
Field development                                    -        0.1       0.1        0.1        -         -       0.3
Training                                             -        0.4       0.3        0.3       0.1       C.2       1.3
Subtotal Other Services                          -        0.7       0.5       0.6        0.3       0.3      2.4
Funds for provincially implemented components          -        3.0       3.7        4.0       0.3        -      1l.C
Subtotal Services                              0.4        7.0       8.1       5.9        1.0       0.5     22.9
Total Investment Costs                          0.7      16.1      16.5       13.5       3.0       1.9     51.7
Recurrent Costs
Salaries and Pro1ect Allowances
Salarles                                               -        0.2       0.3        0.4       0.5       0.5      1.9
Project allowances                                    0.1       0.4       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.5       2.5
Subtotal Salaries. Travel and Per Diem         0.1        0.6       0.8       0.9        1.0       1.0      4.4
Operation and Maintenance
Operating expenditure                                 0.1       0.4       0.8        0.8       0.3       0.4       Z.B
Routine maintenance                                    -         -        0.1         -         -         -       0.1
Subtotal Operation and Maintenance              0.1       0.4       0.9       0.8        0.3       0.4      2.9
Total Recurrent Coats                           0.2       1.0       1.7        1.7       1.3       1.4      7.3
Total Project Costs                             0.9      17.1      18.2       15.2       4.3       3.3     59.0
/a Errors of 0.1 due to rounding.
7T  PPIPD expenditures prior to loan effectiveness.



ANNEX I
Table 2
- 44 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Costs                Loan
Total      Foreign       allocation
Civil Works
Project facilities                      5.1         1.3
National and provincial roads          10.9         7.0
Rural roads in NTB (ADB)                1.0         0.6
Subtotal                            17.0         8.9             11.0
Vehicles, Equipment and Supplies
motorcycles, 4WD                        1.6         0.8
Road construction, farm machinery
and lab equipment                     2.5         2.3
LCB equipment, furniture and office
supplies and agro-inputs              1.9         0.4
Subtotal                             6.0         3.5              2.5
Cattle                                    5.8         0.0              4.0
Services
Technical assistance and studies        9.5         7.2
Research, field development and
training                              2.4         0.2
Subtotal                            11.9         7.4              6.0
Provincially implemented
components /a                          11.0         2.2              7.5
Overheads and Administration
Salaries and allowances                 4.4          -
Operating expenditure                   2.9         0.8
Subtotal                             7.3         0.8              0.0
Total                               59.0        22.8             31.0
Unallocated                                                            2.0
Bank loan                                                             33.0
/a Including the cost of provincially financed training and funds for
coordination, but excluding tne cost of houses for extension staff and
consultant support.



ANNEX I
Table 3
- 45 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements /a
Bank fiscal            Disbursements                         Profile
year and         Semester     Cumulative      Project      Indonesia agriculture
semester           - (US$ million) -              -           (Z)
1986
Second           0.3             0.3                                0 O
1987
First            0.3              0.6            2                   2
Second           0.7              1.3            4                  4
1988
First             1.3             2.6            8                  8
Second           1.4             4.0            12                 12
1989
First            2.0              6.0           18                  18
Second           3.0             9.0            27                 24
1990
First            3.0             12.0           36                 31
Second           3.0            15.0            45                 39
1991
First            4.0             19.0           56                 47
Second           4.0            23.0            70                 55
1992
First             3.5            26.5           80                 63
Second           3.5            30.0            91                 70
1993
First             3.0            33.0          100                 77
Second            -               -              -                 83
/a  Closing date:  October 1992.



INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
laplementatlon Schedule
Contracting
Prequalitication         Ct      i                                      Work/supply
Eivaltiu on                  Processing                    tarting  Copletion        Remarks /b
Component/main contracts                                Submission  and final   Invited    Opened   5vaiuatlon    Xward           date        date        TOs    Sixau
Reerch (AARD)
CTansturucttnof subbase facilities                     -- Not applicable /a    04/01/86  06/01/86   07/01/86   08/15/86  09/15/86   03/15/87              -        NR
Improvements to Halang facilities                      -- Not applicable         04/01/86  06/01/86   07/01/86   08/15/86  09/15/86   03/15/87            -        MR
Provision of equipment                                 -  Not applicable --    04/01/86  06/01/86   07/01/86   08/15/86  09/15/86   09/15/87              -        KR
Farming systems survey                                 -- Force account --          -          -           -           -      06/30/86   05/31/87       Done       NR
Research                                               --- Force account --          -         -           -           -      09/15/87   09/15/91       Done       NR
Cotton Developent (PTPs)
oinstruction or housing In demonstratLon areas         -- Not applicable --    04/01/86  06/01/86   07/15/86   08/15/86  09/15/86   03/31/87              -        KR
Construction of training facilities                    -- Not applicable --    04/01/86  06/01/86   07/15/86   08/15/86  09/15/86   03/31/87              -        NR
Procurewent of equipment                               -- Not applicable --    04/01/86  06/01/86   07/15/86   08/15/86  09/15/86   03/31/87              -        KR
Fioldwork - verification trials, demonstration
work                                                 -   Force account --          -         -           -           -      09/01/86   06/30/89         -        MR
CAttle Development (DGLS)
Cbnstructiton o  holding grounds/faciLities            -- Not applicable --    04/01/86  06/01/86   06/01/86   08/15/86  09/15/86   03/15/87              -        UR
Cattle procurement (22 contracts - sample
schedule for year one)                               04/01/86    05/01/86    06/01/86  08/01/86   10/01/86   12/15/86  12/15/86   06/15/91              -        NR
Feasibility study of livestock production in
Tambora                                              06/01/86    09/01/86    10/01/86  12/01/86   01/01/87   03/01/87  04/15/87   09/15/87   06/01/86    NR
Provision of equipment                                 -  Not applicable --    06/01/86  08/01/86   12/01/86   12/15/86  01/15/87   10/15/87              -        NR
R_aqdp_rovement (DGH?
ltinit ior aesign work (Loan 2404-IND)                 -             -            -          -           -       08/01/85  09/01/85   04/01/87        Done      Done
Road construction - First Phase                        01/01/86    03/01/86    04/01/86  07/01/86   09/01/86   11/01/86  01/01/8;   01/01/89              -        REQ
- Second Phase                     01/01/86    03/01/86    10/01/86  12/01/86   01/01/86   03/01/87  04/15/89   04/15/89
Supervision of construction                            01/01/86    03/01/86    04/01/86  07/01/86   09/01/86   11/01/86  01/01/87   06/01/89              -        NR
Procurement of equipment                               01/01/86    03/01/86    04/01/86  07/01/86   09/01/86   11/01/86  01/01/87   12/01/88              -        REQ
Feasibility study for North Coast road                 06/01/86    08/01/86    09/01/86  12/01/86   01/01/87   02/15/87  03/13/87   03/15/88   12/01/85    REQ
Provincial Activities (BAPPEDA)
First year vorKs and suppiies                          -- Not applicable --    06/01/86  07/15/86   08/01/86   09/15/86  10/15/86   10/15/87              -        NR
Second year works and supplies                         -- Not applicable         06/01/87  07/15/87   08/01/87   09/15/87  10/15/87   10/15/88            -        NR
Third year works and supplies                          -- Not applicable         06/01/88  07/15/88   08/01/88   09/15/88  10/15/88   10/15/89            -        HR
Lembor:  Settlement study                                 -            -             -         -           -           -          -       07/31/85        -        NR
Road construction                            06/01/86    07/01/86    09/01/86  10/01/86   11/01/86   01/15/87  04/01/87   12/01/87              -         UR
Cadastral surveys                            ----- Agraria ------          -          -           -           -      01/01/88   06/30/68        -         NR
Public facilities                            -- Not applicable --    02/29/88  03/30/88   04/30/88   05/30/88  06/30/88   06/30/89                        NR
PPIPD
Ngjagement of regional advisors and other
personnel                                            Not applicable - individual hire by OPE             -           -          -           -          Done      NR
Irian Jaya study                                       06/30/85    08/15/85    09/15/85  11/01/85   11/15/85   12/15/85    03/86            06/88        Done      NR
All local firms in a province which compete under LCB procedures are prequalified by the provinces (or districts) on an annual basis.
71   UR - Not required, REQ - Required.



ANNU: I
Table 5
- 47-
INDO0ESIA
NUSA TENGGARA ACRICULTURAL SUPPORT PInECT
Technical Assisoance and Consultant Services Provided tnder the Proposed Project
(usn-omotha)
CAtegory
/a      1985/86   1986/B7   19B7/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   Total
TECIEICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED DE ADAB
Agricultural Speci-llLas
Farming System Research
Farming aystem survey socioeconolist         B         -          12           -          -         -          -       12
Farming system  ethodologint                 a         -           -           4          4         4          -       12
FPraing systems mnagement specialist         a         -           -          12         12         -          -       24
Short-term consultancies                     B         -           -           -          4         4          4       12
Subtotal                                              -          12          16         20         8          4       60
Cotton Research
Agroclletologit                             3         -           3           -          -          -         -        3
Seed technologist                            a         -           3           -          -         -          -        3
Agronomist (soils)                           B         -           3           3          -         -          -        6
Short-term specialists                       B         -           4           3          3         -          -       10
Subtotal                                              _          13           6          3         -          -       22
Cotton Develoinent
Field entomologist                           B         -           6           6          6         -          -       18
Field *gronomdst                             B         -           6           6          6         -          -       i8
Seed handling expert                         B         -           3           3          3         -          -        9
Subtotal                                              -          15          15         15         -          -       45
Cat tle Developoent
Livestock mnagement sperislist               B         -          12          12         12        12          6       54
Forage developmentiother                     B         -           3           2          2                             7
Livestock settlement study                  A          -          IS           -          -         -          -       15
C         -          20           -          -         -          -       20
Subtotal                                              -          50          14         14        12          6       96
Total, ADA                                            -          90          51         52        20         10      223
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED UNDER PPIPD
Regional Development and Implementation
Support
Advisory Staff
aCief technical advisor                      a         7          12          12          5         -          -       36
dvisor to the Bngda PCU                      B         5          12          12          1         -          -       30
Regional advisors (4)                        B        20          48          46          -         -          -      114
Short-term  consultants                      3        10          26          24          -         -          -       60
Subtotal                                             42          98          94          6         -          -      240
Irian Jays Study (estimnate)                  A          -          60          60         10         -          -      130
Total, PPIPD                                         42         158         154         16         -          -      370
TECOINICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED UNDER NTASP
Roads Component
Ceneral superlelon                             A         3           3           3          3          3         -       I5
Construction supervision                       C         -          12          37         35         14         -       98
Flares: North coast road study                 C         -          SO          50         5C         -          -      150
Subtotal                                              3          65          90        88         17          -      263
Adainistration. MonttorinE. Financial Control
Sectoral Agencies
AARD (Kupsng)                                D         -          12          12         12         12        12       60
Cattle developeent                          D          -          12          12         12        12         12       60
PTP mtl 6 PIP XXVII                         D          -          24          24         24         -          -       72
Subtotal                                              -          48          48        48         24         24      192
Bsngda-BAPPEDA
Senlor Administrator (Bangda)               D          -          12          12         12        12          -       48
Financial Control (Rangda)                  D          -          12          12         12        12          -       48
Financial Control (BAPPEDA NTT)             D          -          12          12         12        12          -       48
Financial Control (BAPPEDA NTB)             D          -          12          12         12        12          -       48
Subtotal                                              -          48          48        48         48          -      192
Total, NTASP                                          3         161         186        184        89         24      647
Total for Project                                    45         409         391        252       109         34   1,240
la Cscegories of consultant: A - fpatriats - in intr
B - Expatriate - individually recruited
C - Local consultant - in fir
D - Local consultant - individually recruited.



ANNEX I
- 48-                          Table6
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Reserve Procurement Vehicles to be Provided by Government /a
Motorcycle    Pickup      4 WD     Minibus
Sectoral Components
Farming Systems and Cotton
Research (AARD)
Malangl Asembagus                         -            1        4        -
Kupang                                   10           1         3         1
Flores                                    4           1         4        -
Lombok                                   10           1         2        -
Subtotal                               24           4        13        1
Cotton Development (PTPs)
Demonstration areas (16)                 16           -         -        -
Extension development                    20           -         -        -
Stock seed production
Lombok                                  2            1        -        -
Asembagus                               2           -         -        -
Verification trials (2)                   4           -         -        -
CDUs i2)                                  -           2         2        -
Subtotal                               44           3         2        -
Cattle Development (DGLS)
PMO-JKr                                   3           -         2         1
PMU-NTB                                   2           3         2        -
PMU-NTT                                  15           7         3         1
SATGAS                                   96           -         -        -
Subtotal                              116          10         7        2
Provincially Implemented Components
Project Coordination Unit (Bangda)        -           -         1        -
Project Management Units (BAPPEDAs)       -           -         2        _
Agricultural Support Services
Project Kabupaten (8 x 2)              16           -         2        -
Project Kecematan (40 x 3)            120           -         -        -
Subtotal                             136           -         5        -
Total Nusa Tenggara Project         320           17        27        3
/a All vehicles are required by May i, 1988.



ANNEX I
Table 7
- 49 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Selected Areas of Concentration for
the Agricultural Support Services Component
Province                      Selected districts         Selected subdistricts
Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB)    Lombok Timur                Hasabagik
Pringgabaya
Aikmel
Sembelia
Sumbawa                   Taliwang
Alas
Utan Rhee
Ropang
Lape Lopok
Plampang
Bima                      Bolo
Wola
Wawo
Sape
Wera
Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT)    Manggarai                   Elar
Komodo
Lambaleda
Nborong
Rutetig
Sikka                     Bola
Kewapantai
Maumere
Nita
Talibura
Belu                      Lamaknen
Malaka Barat
Malaka Tengah
Malaka Timur
Tasifeto Timur
Timur Tengah Selatan      Amanuban Selatan
Amanuban Utara
Amanuban Selatan
Amanuban Tengah
Mollo Utara
Sumba Barat               Laratuma
Kodi
Waijewa Barat
Waijewa Timur
Kelikutana



ANNEX I
- 50 -                          Table 8
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
NTT Area Development Component - Kabupaten Manggarai
(Estimated base cost plus contingencies, US$'000)
Budget year
Sector and Subproject                       1          2           3        Total
Project Financed Expenditures
Settlement Planning and Implementation
Road construction                      250         750        500       1,500
Land survey                              -          30         30          60
Lard registration                        -          50         50         100
Water supply                             -          40        100         140
Public facilities                        -         300        400         700
Total Bank-Assisted                   250       1,170      1,080       2,500
Recommended Government Expenditures
Agriculture and Forestry
Draft animal distribution
and farmer training /a                 -           -          -           -
Water management training                -          50         40          90
Coconut nurseries                        -           5          5          10
Social forestry (fuelvood)               -          50         50         100
.Afforestation                           -          40         60         100
Subtotal                                -        145         155        300
Commerce and Industry
Farm implement workshop                    -           -         40          40
Weaving                                    -           -         10          10
Subtotal                                _          _          50          50
Health and Education
Preventive health services                 -          30         25          55
Junior high school                         -           -         35          35
Malaria control                            -          30         30          60
Subtotal                                -         60          90         150
Total GOI-Financed                      -         205        295         500
Total Recommended Investments         250       1,375      1,375       3,000
/a Included under the APBN-financed livestock distribution component.



-  51                          ANNEX I
Table 9
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
NTB Area Development Component - Kabupaten Lombok Tengah /a
(Estimated base cost plus contingencies, US$'OOO)
Budget year
Sector and Subproject                         1        2          3       Total
Project Financed Expenditures /a
Agriculture /b
Food crops promotion                    75          75         75      225
Estate crops promotion                 125         175        200     500
Home garden                             50          25         25      100
Fisheries                              100         150        200     450
Social forestry                         50          50         50      150
Cashew and Soybean Processing           25          50          -       -
Total Bank-Assisted
Expenditures                         425         525        550   1,500
Expenditures Covered in Other Projects
Infrastructure
Roads /c                                           500        500   1,000
Recommended Government Expenditures
Education, Health & Public Facilities
High school laboratories                45          45         60      150
Junior high school                       -         120          -      120
Nutrition monitoring                     5           5          -       10
Community development centers           60          60          -      120
Malaria control                          -          60         40      100
Total GOI-Financed                    110         290        100      500
Total Recommended Investments             535       1,315      1,150   3,000
/a Derived from report by Noel Haug: Development Strategy for South Lombok
Nusa Tenggara Barat.
lb Cattle to be provided under the cattle development component.
W Roads in Rabupaten Lombok Tengah to be improved under the ADB-assisted
Eighth Roads Project:
Kuta-Pongos                           0.8 km
Pongos-Awang                         12.8 km
Pelambik-Motong Sapah                12.3 km
Mangkung-Solong Belanak              11.6 km
Total                             37.5 km



INDONSIA
MUSA TIICOARA AokihA, 470?hIJC
Cattle Productivity sand ositeaits/
Livnowight   Value    Yr 0   Tr I   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 3   Tr 6   Yr 7    Yr 6    Yr 9    Yr 10   Yr It   Yr 12   Yr 13   Yr 14   Yr IS   Yr 36   Yr 17   Yr II   Tr 19   Yr 20   Total
"ItYiiiP.,1FjiRV  I330                                 320         0        0       0      0       0      36    314       134      476      346      324       314     339      374      390      607      423      6443     641      483      700    0.230
Maure Fowles                             230          200        0        0       0       0       0       0       0    I",14   2, 413   2, 469   2,374   2,443   2,716   3,796   2,677   2,939   1,043   1,113   1,223   3,314   3,432   40,064
Mature males                              30,W        240        0        0       0       a       0    GIG    970   1,443   2,359    3,023    3,415   1,696   2,939   4,269   4,298   4,329   4,GG3   4,948   1,050   3,310   3,240   37,822
Total Il,ber of Animals                                       i        i       i       .2      0    GG A1124   A.323   1.132   4.030   4.313   jjjj7  7.214   7.429   7.623    JJ9f    6.333   6.714   8,944   9.127   91 "7   104.164
Total livewight (tees)                                            0        0       0      0       0    20o    3IG   I,12G   1,1113   1,410   1,747   1,430   1,945   2,066   2,327   2,190   2,214   2,364   2,G29   2,470   2,336   28,G06
Total 'alga (14'.1mIllin)                                        0        0       0       0       0     340    233       699   1,107   1,216    1,397    1,410   1,336   1,433    3,702   l,732    1.803   1,591   l,9G3   1,974   2,029   22,064
Roiforo 1-2 yeAar                       1S0         120        0        0       0    294I  1,068  2,186  4,102   1,300   3,314   4,388    2,414            650        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0   24,714
lulls 3-2 Fears                        ISO          120        0        0       0    244  1,048  2,386  1,690   4,390   4,372   2,430    1,250             170        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0   21,164
Mature foail..                         230          200        0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0        0        0   1,399         0   1,719   3,274   4,544   7,340   7,340   7,340   7,140   7,160   7,340   40,875
Mature Milos                           300          240        0        0       0       0       0       0    204         0   3,060   2,439   4,412   1,339   4,283   7,429   4,1331   6,133   4,333   6,113   4,133   6,1333   6,113   64,701
Subtotal vsloe (Ikp million)                                   0        0       0      49    234      S371 3008   3,233   1,444   1,114   3,691   1,369   1,444   2,9846   3,32S3.1444   3,444   3,444   3,644   3,444   1,464   34,249
F1 Distributioo
ofItersra 3-2- ya rs                    330         320        a        0       0       0       0      I      39       37     3,02   2,736        14,34  4,732   3,448   3,314   1.328   3,837          731      I3e        0        0        0   10,290
lulls 1-2 yearsa                       33            2                          0               0      I      3I9      177 1S  2    ,119   2,403   3,764   4,481   4,807   3,413   2,336       970      273       20        0        0        0   24,430
Mature females            190         ~~~~       ~ ~~200  0  0     0       0       0       0       0        0        0        0        0        0      200      200      200      300   1.000   1,000   2,411   3,681    4.114   17.342
Mature aIlS.                           100          240        0        0       0       0       Ii      0       0        0        0       33        0        0       A4      933   2,7I3   4,937   3,3125   3,692   46.73   6,246   8,431   43,336
Subtotal value: ftp silLion)                                   0        0       0       0       0       4      18      II       287     6442      932   1,106    3,294    3,303    1,3m      2,049   1,600   1,434    2,332   1,114    ,3,08    20,967M
Total Nmbker of AnimIls                                       0                Q     376  2.136  4,808  8,534   83,444  33.143   33,333  J9.O09  13.572  18,623  22.633  23.358  23.777  21,029  22.743  24.979  19.648  30.304   111.077
Total lveweight (tuna)                                           0        0        0     86    320    721  3,306    3,737   2,144    2,694   1,533   3,134   3,947    3,233   1,837   4,934   4,330   6,373   4,993    8.222   8.443   74,020
Total rolus fap million)                                         0        0       0       49    234     377  3,047   1,371   1,733   2,334   2,642   2,307   3,336   4,3864   4,670   3,5331   3,064   3,300   3,394   4.578   6.772   59.216
Incremoeal Cain from Offiaka
Total sumber of actual.                                          0         0      0    376  2,334  4,314  7,392   7,323   8,309   9,243   33,494   4,493  33,33  133,034  33,493  17,682  34,494  34,063   14,015320,323  21,314206,9341
Total livaewight (tone)                                          0        0        0     66     120    123    994        393      783   1,063    1,806   1,283   2,003   3,347   3,730   4,727   4,074   4,010   4,346   3.732   3,929   43,4133
Totm al cas (Ip sulleon)                                         0         0      0      64    234    417    793         474      426      848   1,445   1,027   3.402   2.5324   2.98    1,763   3,240   3,208   3,433   4,402   4,743   34,330
lucreiwntal Stock vale oIn YarlO0                                  0        0       D       0       0       0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0314,787    14,187
Preactureass      ,2iber                                   0   3,300  3,100  3,300          0       0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0     130
FI rodistribution (noaber)                                       0        0       0    426  1,014   2,222  3,442   4,210   1,890   2,338    1,016            320        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0   19.080
Total Fattoemrs                                               .   1.too  3.300  1.324  1.1114  2.222  3.492   4.290   3.890   2.533    3.014              12_0       0        I2       2        I2               .2        0        0        0   22.180
Liveweigh4t Increase (tuna)                                      0      340     340    223      137    122    306        422      344      164      147        17       0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0    3,243
Total value (ULp million)                                        0       328    l28    177    324    239        403      498      433      294      13s        IA        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0    2,194
To tal koarit1  formtal Gaons
from  red.p  PottonbopM and Marl
Ituect)                                                             0      132    126    244    392    473  3,200          972   3,078   1,142   3,143    3,040   3,402   2,514   2,948   1,761   3,240    ,1,06   1,633   4,402  39)530   31,713
La. Cattle Yiuld be partly used by soallholders as draft anlagls and cattle manure be used for home giarden preduce. Theae benefito aeraossumed to be offset ky sn-fan cattle eaaagaenet Cots ta clodbng tailly labor and
forAge.



AN= II
Table 2
- 53 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TISCCARA ACRICULTUAL SUPP0rT PR0JoCr
Sumar of 7a o Budgets
Model A                  Nodal U                Nodel C                   o Nodel n
'      ulo0    u        P      W110    w        r      ul/Wo             p P   w/o     v
Land Area (ha)                           0.5 he lowland          0.8 ha upland          1.0 ha lowlamn            2.0 ha upland
Cropped Area (ha)
Paddy                                0.3    0.3    0.3       0.4    0.4    0.4       0.5    0.5    0.5       1.0    1.0    1.0
Corn                                 0.2    0.2    0.2       0.2    0.2    0.2       0.5    0.5    0.5       0.4    0.4    0.4
Cotton                               0.2    0.2    0.2       0.2    0.2    0.2       0.3    0.3    0.3       0.5    0.5    0.5
Mungbean                             0.2    0.2    0.2       0.2    0.2    0.2       0.3    0.3    0.3       0.5    0.5    0.5
Total Cropped Are.. (h)           0.9    0.9    0.9       1.0    1.0    1.0       1.6    1.6    1.6       2.3    2.3    2.3
Cropping intensity (X)               180.0  180.0  180.0    125.0  125.0  125.0    160.0  160.0  160.0    115.0  115.0  115.0
Cattle Distribution
Breeder  (no.)                         0      0       0        0      0       0        0      0       1        0      0       2
Fattenere (no.)                        0      0       1        0      0       1        0      0       0        0      0       0
Fam Incomes (Rp'000)
Crop production                      240    282    282       193    223    223       408    478    478       459    532    532
cattle incoes /a                       0      0    115         0      0    115         0      0    171         0      0    342
Other incomes /8S                            85      85       70      70     70       45     45      45       25     25      25
Total Farm Inco e                        367    482       263    293    408       453    523    694       484    557    899
Crop production cost- !b (1p'000)       37     42      42       39     45      45       59     68      68       88     99      99
Taxes and contributiong (Rp'000)        15      15     15       18      18     18       30     30      30       38     38      38
Total Farm Expenditures            52     57      57       57     63      63       89     98      98      126    137    137
Net Farm Incomes (RpO000)              273    310    425       206    230    345       364    425    596       358    420    762
Per CaiWta Parm Incomeo
1p0oo                                 55     62      85       41     46      69       72     85    119        72     84    152
us8 /e                                50     56      78       37      42     63       66     77    108        65     76    !38
la See Annex II, Table. 5 and 6.
/b Including off-farm earnings and poultry incomes.
/e Compared with poverty line income of 8108/capita and projected CDP of $650/capita in 1995 at constant 1985 prices.



INDWNESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Physical Input-Output for Crop Production /a
Unit     Lowland rice    Upland rice    Cotton         Corn     Mungbean
Yield                                    kg/ha         2,500           1,200          400      1,200          800
Seed                                     kg/ha            40              60           25         30           25
Urea                                     kg               30               -           100         -            -
TSP                                      kg                -               -           100         -            -
Agrochemicals                            liter             1                1           12         -             3
Rat bait                                 kg                2               2            -          1            2
Hired labor                              day              15               10           40         5            10
Family labor:                            day
Land preparation                                        80              50           50         50           50
Seed beds                                                8               -            -          -            _
Planting                                                20              20           30         20           30
Weeding                                                 20              40           50         40           40
Crop protection                                          2               2           20          2            2
Harvest/post harvest                                    38              28          100         25           45
Total Labor (Including Hired)                        183             150          290        142          177
/a   Physical quantities are assumed to be the same for without and with the project, because the project
impact on crop production is not quantifiable at this stage.
LaIN



ANNEX II
- 55                               Table 4
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
(in 1985 constant prices)
Unit        Financial price         Economic price
1985/86   1995/96/f   1985/86   1995/96/d
Cattle
Initial calves (1-2 yrs,           Rp'000/head      170         170        50          50
150 kg) /a
Returned heifers (F-1)                  "           170         170       120         120
(1-2 yrs old, 150 kg) lb
Other calves (1-2 yrs, 150 kg)                      120         120       120         120
Matured female (250 kg)                             200         200       200         200
Matured male (300 kg)                   "           240         240       240         240
Crops
Rice paddy                            Rpikg         175         218         -
Corn                                  Rp/kg         113         113         -
Mungbean                              Rp/kg         400         400         -
Seed cotton                           Rp/kg         350         350         -
Inputs
Rice seed                             Rp/kg         262         327         -           -
Corn seed                             Rp/kg         170         170         -           -
Mungbean seed                         Rp/kg         550         550         -           -
Cotton seed                           Rp/kg         300         350         -           -
Urea                                  Rp/kg         100         200         -           -
TSP                                   Rp/kg         100         200         -           -
Pesticide                             Rp/kg       1,500      2,500          -           -
Rodenticide                           Rp/L        2,300      2,500          -           -
Unskilled labor                        day        1,000       1,000       500         500
/a  The average financial price of initial cattle which includes shipment and insurance
costs would be used by BRI for credit accounting. This price may vary from Rp 140,000
to Rp 200,000/head in different locations. The average economic prices of initial
cattle is equivalent to incurred shipment and insurance costs only, and value of the
initial cattle itself is not counted because it is the same in the with and without
project situation.
/b  The average financial price of the returned Fl heifers is assumed to be the same as
the initial procured price and the average economic price of the Fl calves is assumed
to be the same as other cattle valued at Rp 800/kg liveweight.
/c  Projected on the assumption that domestic prices would move along with long-term world
prices as projected by the Bank's Commodity Studies and Projections Division in
January 1985.
/d  Economic prices for input and output of crops are not required, since no economic
analysis has been carried out for crop production components.



ANNEX II
Table 5
- 56 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Cash Flow of Cattle Rreeding Model (with Two Breeders) /a
(Rp'Q00 at 1985 constant prices)
Year:  1     2      3    4    5    6      7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14  15-20
Number af Animals (no.)
Stock on hand                  2      2     2    2    3    3      3    4    4    4    4    4    5    5         5
Offtake
Return to BR! (calves)       -      -     1    1    1    1      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -         -
Sales (matured)              -     -      -    -    -    -      -    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1.5
Cash Inflow (Rp 000)
Lcedit                       370      -     -    -    -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -         -
Cattle sales lb                -     -   170  120  170  120       0  200  200  200  240  240  240  240    360
Total Inflow              370     -   170  120  170  120       0  200  200  200  240  240  240  240    360
Cash Outflow (Rp'000)
Purchase of 2 heifer. Ic    340       -     -    -    -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -         -
Shed                          20     -      -    -    -    -      -    -    -   20    -    -    -    -        -
Veterinary supplies           10    10    10   1n   10   10    10   15   15   15   15   15   18   18          18
Interest /d                  (45)  (45)  135   42   33   18       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -
Principal payment              -      -    25   68  127  150      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -         -
Total Outflow             370    10   170  120  170  178    10   15   15   35   15   15   18   18         18
Net Flow (Rp'000)
Without Credit              -370   -10   160  110  160  110   -10  185  185  165  225  225  222  222    342
With Credit Ie                 0   -10      0    0    0  (58)  -10  185  185  165  225  225  222  222    342
ltR - 30% (without credit)
/a  Costs of labor and feeds for cattle production are assumed to be offset by incomes from incremental farm
production due to animal draft and manure.
/b Price of the returned heifer (Fl) to JRI (yr 3 to yr 6) is assumed to be the same as the average pur-
chase price of Rp 170,000 since it would be redistributed to neighboring farmers whose opportunity cost
of getting such a heifer should be at least of thij amount. Price of returned F1 male and other nonre-
turned cattle has been projected at Rp 800/kg of liveweight, which would be an average farm-gate price
in NTB and NTT provinces. Among returned cattle, 501 are male.
/c  Purchase price of heifers may vary from Rp 140,000 to Rp 200,000/head In different islands; the average
price is estimated at Rp 170,000/heat including shipment and insurance costs.
/d  BRI interest rate for cattle credit is 12% p.a. Unpaid interest in the first two years may carry over
to the third year without compound interest charges.
/e There will be no significant profits in the first 6-7 years; however, farmers will be risk-free in the
repayment of the BRI credit because negative balances, if any, at the end of the repayment period are to
be written off by 001. In the above cae, a negative balance of Rp 58,000 is written off.



ANNEX II
Table 6
- 57 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Cash Flow of Cattle Fattening Model
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 and on
Stock Numbers (no.)
Purchases /a                        1       1       1        1           1
Sales /b                           -        1       1        1           1
Cash Inflow (Rp'O0O)
Credit /c                        170        -       -       -            -
Sales /d                           -      240     240     240          240
Subtotal                      170     240      240     240          240
Cash Outflow (Rp'O0O)
Purchase of fattener /e          170      120     120      120         120
Animal shed                       15        -       -       -            -
Veterinary supplies                5        5       5        5           5
Interest /f                        -       23      14       5            _
Credit capital repayment  j        -       70      80      40            -
Subtotal                      190     218      219     170          125
Cash Net Flow (Rp'000) /h
with credit                      -       22      21       70         115
without credit                -190      115     115      115         115
IRR (without credit) = 60%
/a  18-month animal, 150 kg liveweight, purchased at the start of each year.
T7  30-month animal, 300 kg liveweight, sold at start of year 2 and each fol-
lowing year.
/c  Credit consisting of Rp 170,000 for a cattle, Rp 15,000 for a shed,
Rp 5,000 for veterinary supplies.
/d  Sold at Rp 800 per kg liveweight.  Growth at 0.40 kg per day for 365 days.
T7e Purchased at Rp 170,000 for initial cattle, and Rp 120,000 for locally
purchased cattle.
/f  Interest calculated at 12%, p.a.
7j Capital repaid in three-year period.
hK Costs of labor and feeds for cattle fattening are assumed to be offset by
incomes from incremental farm production due to animal draft and manure.



ANNEX II
Table 7
- 58 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Cost Recovery of Cattle Development
(Rp million in 1985 prices)
Project costs /a                           Expected revenues
Cattle   Equipment   Operating  Total  Sale of F2   Payment of         /e    Total
Year      purchase  and supply  costs lb   coste  cattle Ic   fatteners /d  Taxes  revenues
0             0          0           4         4        0             0           0        0
1           336       651          328    1,315         0           154           0      154
2         1,062        494         438    1,994         0           154           0      154
3         1,382        179         633    2,194         0           203           0      203
4         1,178        103         774    2,055         0           124           0      124
5           854         46         793    1,693         4           253           0      258
6             0          0         760       760       38           398           2      439
7             0          0         760       760      138           489           0      628
8             0          0         760    .760        287           443          13      743
9             0          0         760       760      639           289          32      960
10             0          0         760       760      952           116          71    1,139
11             0          0         760       760    1,108            14          64    1,185
12             0          0         760       760    1,233             0          96    1,329
13             0          0         760       760    1,032             0         158    1,190
14             0          0         760       760      654             0         201      854
15             0          0         760       760      339             0         260      599
16             0          0         760       760      121             0         247      368
17             0          0          33        33       22             0         254      276
18             0          0          33        33        0             0         280      280
19             0          0          33        33        0             0         329      329
20             0          0          33        33        0             0         339      339
Total     4,812      1,473      11,462   17,747    6,566          2,637       2.345   11,549
PV (at 10% dis-
count rate)      -          -           -    9,126         -             -           -    3,880
Cost recovery
index              3,880/9,126 - 43%
/a Excluding taxes.
7W? Including salary and operating expenditures of PMD in Jakarta and PHUs in NTT/NTB; PHO
would be closed down in year 7 and PMUs in year 18.
Ic Sales of returned F2 with Rp 800/kg of liveweight.
Id Fattening of FO and returned Fl males through BRI credit.
7Te 5% tax of cattle sales on open market.



MJNIR II
- 59 -
INDONESIA
NUSA TENOGGARA ACRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Summ_ry DAta on load Component /a
(Flores, NZ)
Road link                      A(005)  B(006)    C(011)       D(012)    K(017)    F(018/019)    G(020)          H(037)
Matere-
From - to                      Gako-   Aegela-  Wolowara-  Lianunu-  Weepare-   Labuanbmjo-  M lvatar-  H0gepanda-  Total or
Aegela   ENDZ      Lianunn    Rapeng   Larantuka    Ruteng        Tiveronto      Ktoro     average
Project length (km)              22.5         28      3.5        9.0        47.5           33           7         35.5         186
Road width (m)                    3.5        3.5      3.5        4.0         4.0          3.5         3.5          3.5         3*7
Normal traffic /b
1985                           250        118       116       272          258          84          103          269         195
1995                           648        229       255       584          562         170          209          855        490
Generated traffice (2)             20         20       20         20           20          50          50           20          26
Existing Condition
Pavement and surface          POOR       POOR      POOR      POOR         POOR        POOR         POOR         POOR        POOR
Average Speed
Existing                        25         30        36        44           27          25           24           34          28
Imrovement                      39         50        51        54           52          41           40           44          46
EstSnated Costs /c (Rp oln)
Total                        806.8   1.215.2    170.2       471.2      2,513.2    1,707.3         353.7      1,679.2       8,917
Average/km                    35.9       43.0      48.6      52.4         52.9        51.7         50.5         47.3          48
IRR (asse /d                       43         10       11         20          39           12          17           20          24
/a  Date Source:  Directorate General of Highways; See Working Paper on Road Component.
/b  Traffic volume excluding motorcycles and projected at annual growth rates of IOX for cars, 8S for buses and 122 for
trucks during 1986-90; these rates would be 22 less during 1990-2000.
/c  Design:  Double bit--Inous surface dressing with about 15 cm crushed stone base and subbase of selected uoterials.
Costs including minor bridge rehabilitation and an 102 physical coctingencies.
/d  Considering net saving in time costa; vehicle operating costs, and road m-iatenance costs.



INDONESIA
KUSA TENGGARA AGRICUTLTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Economic Be4efits of Road Improvement /s
Unit  YfrI    Yfr2        Yr 3      Yfr4        Tr 5         fr 6      Yr?7        Yfr         fr9        Yr O       YfrIl       Yr 12      yr 13    Yir14   YrI  1  r 16-20   Total
Ave. savings In UTC lb           Rpl4/knk  0.0      1.12    2.69        6.19        6.73        1.35       3.35        7.51       5.23        1.04       3.38        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00           41.89
Ave. savings Ln VOC ZE           RPm/km  0.0        1.69     5.19      11.54       12.42        2.07       6.65       14.96      15.73        1.50       6.90        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00          78.65
Ave. savings in RNC/b            RpN/km  0.0        6.85    0.00        0.00        0.00       6.85        0.00        0.00       0.00        6.85       0.00        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00           20.55
Ave. road benefit.               RpN/Irz  0.0       9.66    7.88       17.73       19.15      20.27       10.00      22.77       23.96        9.39      10.28        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00          141.09
Construction scheduLe            km/yr  20.0    66.70   WA.8           29.50        8.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00          186.00
Road Yfrl benefits - UTC         RpM      0.0    22.40   53.80        123.80      134.60      27.00       67.00     156.20      164.60       20.80      67.60        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00          837.80
Road Yfrl benefit. - VOC         Rpm      0.0    33.60  103.80    230.80          24R.40       .1.40     133.00     299.20      314.60       30.00     138.00        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    1,573.00
Road Yfri benefits - RMC         RpM      0.0   137.00    0.00          0.00        0.00     137.00        0.00        0.00       0.00      137.00       0.00        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00          411.00
Road Yfrl benef its - Total    RpH        0.0   193.20  157.60O    354.60         383.00     205.40      200.00    455.40       479.20      187.80     205.60        0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   2.821.80
Road 'fr2 benefits - UTC         RpM      0.0      0.00   74.70       179.42    412.87    448.89          90.05    223.45    520.93    548.94           69.37      225.45       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   2,794.06
Road 'fr2 benefits - VOC         RpM      0.0       0.00  112.72    346.17        769.72    828.41       138.07    443.56    997.83  1,049.19    200.05    460.23               0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   5,245.96
Road 'fr2 benefits - MKSC        Rpm      0.0      0.00  456.90         0.00        0.00       0.00    456.90          0.00       0.00        0.00    456.90         0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   1,370.69
Road Yr2 benefit. - Total    Rp2!         0.0      0.00  Ih44.32    525.60  1.182.59  1,277.31    685.01    667.01  1,518.76  1.598.13    626.31    685.68                      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   9.  1.7
Road TOr  benefits - UTC        RtpM      0.0      0.00    0.00        69.22      166.24     382.54    415.91        63.43    207.03    482.66         508.61       64.27    208.88    0.00    0.00   0.00   2,588.80
Road Yr3 benef its - VOC         RpK      0.0       0.00    0.00      104.44      320.74     713.17    767.56       127.93    410.97    924.53    972.21            92.70    426.42    0.00    0.00   0.00   4,860.57
Road 'fr3 benefits - RMC         RpM      0.0       0.00    0.00    423.33          0.00        0.00       0.00     423.33        0.00        0.00       0.00    423.33          0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   1,269.99
Road TOr  benefit. - Total        RpH     0.0       0.00    0.00      596.99      486.98  1.095.71  1,183.47        634.69      628.00  1,407.19  1,480.73    580.30    635.30    0.00    0.00   0.00   8.719.36
Road 'frA benefits - UITC        RpM      0.0       0.00    0.00        0.00       33.04      79.36      282.61     198.54       39.83       98.83    230.40    242.79         30.68   99.71    0.00   0.00   1,235.76
Road 'fr4 benefits - VOC         Rpm      0.0       0.00    0.00        0.00       49.86     153.11    340.43    366.39          61.07      196.18    441.32    464.04         44.25  203.55    0.00   0.00   2,320.28
Road Yr4 benefits - RMC          RpM      0.0      0.00    0.00         0.00      202.08       0.00        0.00        0.00     202.08        0.00       0.00        0.00    202.08    0.00    0.00   0.00           606.23
Road 'fr4 benefits - Total       RpM      0.0       0.00    0.00        0.00      284.97    232.46       523.04    564.93       302.97    295.00       671.72    706.82    277.02   303.26    0.00   0.00   4,162.16
Road YirS benefits - UTC         RpM      0.0       0.00    0.00        0.00        0.00       8.96       22.52      49.52       53.84       20.80      26.80       62.48      65.84    8.32   27.04   0.00           335.122
Road IrS beneft.e - VOC          RpM      0.0       0.00    0.00        0.00        0.00       13.52      41.52      92.32       99.36       16.56      53.20      119.68     125.84   12.00   55.20   0.00          629.20
Road 'fri benefita - MC          Rpm      0.0       0.00    0.00        0.00        0.00      54.80        0.00        0.00       0.00       54.80       0.00        0.00       0.00   54.80    0.00   0.00           164.40
Road Yr5 benefits - Total    RpM          0.0       0.00    0.00        0.00        0.00       77.28      63.04      141.84     153.20       82.16      80.00      182.16     191.68   75.12   82.24   0.00   1.128.72
Total UTC                        RpM      0.0    22.40  128.50        372.44      746.76    946.75    777.08    711.13    986.22  1,162.02    902.78               594.98     305.40  ICR.03   27.04   0.00   7,791.54
Total VOC                        RpM      0.0    33.80  216.52    681.42  1,388.72  1,749.61  1,420.58  1,329.39  2,883.83  2,216.45  1,704.68  1,136.65    596.51  215.55   55.20   0.00  14,828.90
Total RKC                        RPM      0.0   137.00  456.90    423.33    202.08           191.80    456.90    423.33         202.08      191.80    456.90    423.33    202.08   54.10    0.00   0.00   3,822.30
TotaL Economic benefits          PPj      0.0   193.20  801.92  1,47A.1  2,375   2,881   2,545   2,630   3,21   3702   3643   215.96  1i103.9   37.3    82.2    00   262274
/a. Data source:  Directorate of Hiighvays, 00l
/b  UTC - Users' Tt.. Coat;  VOC - Vehicle Operating Coat;  RMC - Road M4aintenance Cost.                                                                                                                                   . 



INDONESIA
NUSA TEEGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Econosic Benefits and Costs
1986    1987   1988    1989   1990   1991   1992  1993   1994   1995  1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006               rv    DU
-  -   -                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(i-lOll   (t)
Benef it.
Bre         benefits                      -        -         -     69    256    417    795   '74    626    868  1,445  1,027  1,602  2,534  2,968  3,781  3,260  3.208  3,653  4,602   4,743   6,313
Stock increase                          -        -                                                                                                                               -       -  14,787   1,998    -
Fattenert' benefits                     -      128       128    177    126    258    405   498    431    294    118         14      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -        -   1,337    -
Cattle Develoont Benefits Is            _      128      128    246    382    675  1,200   972  1,077  1,162  1.563  1 041  1,602  2,534  2.968  3.781  3.260  3.208  3.693  4.602  19.330  11t648
Users' time cost eavings                -       22       129    372    747    947    777   711    986  1,162    903    595    305    108           27      -       -      -       -      -        -   3,594
Vehicles' operating cost savings        -       34      217    681  1,389  1,750  1,421 1,329  1,884  2,217  1,705  1,137    597    216            55      -       -      -              -        -   6,710
Kaintenance cost savings                -      137      457    423    202    192    457   423    202    192    457    423    202           55       -      -       -      -       -      -        -   1,938
Road Ixprovament Dinefitals/a *                193      802  1,477  2,338  2 888  2.655 2.464  3.072  3.570  3.064  2,155  1.104    378            82      --                                -       !2.z43 
Costs
Cattle shipment /c                      -      101      319    415    353    256         -     -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -     970    -
Facilities 6 equtpment                  -      651      494    179    103       46      -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -   1,121
081 costa                               4      328      438    633    774    793    760   760    760    760    760    760    760    760    760    760    760             33      33     33       33   4,772
Cattle Developent Costs                 4   1.080    1.251  1.227  1.230  1.095    760   760    760    760    760    760    760    760    760              0    760      33      33     33       33   6.863
Rond construction costs /d            959   3,197    2,963  1,414    384         -       -     -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -   6,944
Net Benefits
Cnttle development                     -4    -952   -1.121   -981   -848   -420    440   212    317    402    R03    281    842  1,774  2,208  3,021  2,500  3,175  3,620  4.569  19,497   4,786   18
Road Isprovement                     -959  -3,004   -2.161       63  1.954  2.888  2,655 2,464  3,072  3,570  3,064  2,155  1,104    378           82      -       -      -       -      -        -   5,299   24
/   See Annex 2, Table 1.
See Annex 2, Table 9.
i' Purchase costo of Initial cattle are not Included.                                                                                                                                                            I!
;iSee Annex 2, Table S.                                                                                                                             



ANNII  TII
- 62 -                           Page 1
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Institutional Support for Agricultural Development in NTT/NTB
Department of Agriculture
1.        Agricultural Research.  There are no AARD research stations in the
NTT/NTB although there are plans to develop a livestock substation at Lili, in
West Timor, and to develop a food crop substation in East Timor which would
have relevance for NTT/NTB. Research support is also provided by the Research
Institute for Tobacco and Fiber Crops (BALITAS) which is located in East Java
and by the Manado Research Institute for Coconuts located in North Sulawesi.
To date, all AARD work relevant to the area has been organized along commodity
lines.
2.        Project specific research is being carried out under programs
sponsored by FAO, USAID and the Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(ADAB). An FAO agronomist, based in Lombok, but carrying out trials with
extension staff throughout the area, is helping to demonstrate the benefits of
good seed of recommended varieties, good cultural practices, and use of
fertilizers applied to secondary crops. Crop yields are reported to have been
doubled and sometimes trebled by the introduction of improved technology and
benefit/cost ratios are very attractive in most instances.
3.        A USAID agronomist located in Kupang assists district agricultural
officers in selected villages to evaluate and improve cropping systems by
undertaking farm surveys and simple on-farm trials in Alor, Belu and Timor
Timur Utara. A small rainfed experiment station has been established at
Sukabititek for conducting trials on corn, sorghum, mungbean, soybean, peanuts
and leucaena. Good progress has been made in increasing yields and farm
income by developing integrated lamtoro/food crop/livestock farming systems
and introducing improved crop/varieties, but the area of influence is very
restricted.
4.        A research project supported by ADAB has been operating in West
Timor since 1982. Originally begun as a livestock Froject, the main thrust
has been to create small reservoirs which increase the carrying capacity of
the land in the dry season. Recently however, considerable work has been done
on land management, and farming systems including lamtoro rotations. Under a
second stage project to begin in 1986, 60 new dams will be constructed and
research will be expanded.
5.        Food Crops Services.  The Directorate General of Food Crops (DGFC)
has seven divisions (administration, extension, planning, economics, horticul-
ture, production and crop protection) at the provincial level, each with four
sections. Each of these seven divisions are repeated at the district level
with three sections. The total staff in the 2 provinces is about 1,450 of
which 484, or 33Z, are technical personnel. Educational level is low, only 7-



- 63 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
8Z have college degrees and about one-third are graduates of technical high
schools. As would be expected, there is fairly heavy concentration of gradu-
ates in the provincial offices and few in the district offices. Office accom-
modation is poor, and lack of transport and inadequate operational budgets
make it difficult for existing kabupaten staff to work effectively. The
situation is most critical in NTT where the problem is compounded by the
isolation of islands constituting the province, the large geographical area
covered by each kabupaten and poor communications.
6.        Within the provinces, the Directorate of Production supervises one
central seed farm (BBI) for rice, secondary food crops and horticulture crops
and a number of main farms (BBU) for the same purpose. The provinces have a
network of small seed farms (BBP) under their direct control. Under the
second Bank-assisted seeds project (Loan 2066-IND), funds were provided for
upgrading a Central Seed Farms for rice and for secondary crops in Central
Lombok, NTB. With this support the volume of rice seed production from the
main seed farms and demonstration areas in NTB is reported to be approaching
requirements. The main problem is mixing of varieties and the absence of a
program to inject pure seed regularly into villages and to upgrade farmers'
methods of seed selection and storage. There is very limited production of
secondary food crop seed and heavy reliance is placed on supplies from
demonstration plots. Commercial seeds are of doubtful quality and often sold
at relatively high prices. The situation in NTT is much less favorable
despite the fact that 21 seed farms and 10 seed gardens are listed and total
potential production area is of-the order of 165 ha. Since seed production in
relation to demand is negligible, a high percentage of farmers do not have
access to quality seed of improved varieties and rely largely on their own
resources.
7.        In Nusa Tenggara the planned crop protection system is not yet
functioning effectively and the regional center proposed for Bali is not yet
fully functional. Field stations have not been established and there are not
enough crop protection brigades to provide adequate coverage especially in
NTT. Existing brigades are not effective as most lack adequate staff,
facilities, mobility and operational budget. As a result, yield reductions of
10-20% are a common occurrence due to rice bugs, leaf rollers, corn earworms,
podborers and leaf eating caterpillars.
8.        Estate Crop Services.  The Directorate General of Estates (DCE) has
six divisions with 3 sections under an Inspector for Estate Crops at
provincial level. The same divisions are represented at the district level
under a kabupaten estate crops officer. Like the DGFC, the DGE Offices are
short of graduate personnel. The total number of estate crops staff available
in Nusa Tenggara is 1,562. Of these, 1,085 ar 69Z are special project
staff. Only 6% of the staff are graduates and these are concentrated at the
provincial level. There is a serious shortage of the vehicles, working
equipment and operational budgets needed for the service to work effectively.
9.        A key feature of the DGE is that a high proportion of the staff are
assigned to special projects. One special project (PRPTE) implements programs
to expand production of export crops such as coconut and coffee. For the
implementation of these special projects heavy reliance is placed on project



- 64 -                              ANNEX III
Page 3
management units (PMU9) of which there are 26 in NTB and 31 in NTT, each
covering a target development area of about 3,000 ha. A second special
project is aimed at the expansion and intensification of annual cash crops and
the introduction of new ones. Cotton and tobacco are the main targets for
intensification in NTB, while cotton receives greatest emphasis in NTT. The
main implementing agencies for cotton development are PTP XXVII in NTB and PTP
XXVI in NTT. These limited liability Government companies are based in
Jember, East Java, and operate estates for cotton and tobacco. The DGE also
has project management units which promote cotton and tobacco and parallel the
work of the PTPs.
10.       Livestock Services.  The six national technical directorates are
represented by five technical divisions and an admin4strative section in the
provinces under the Inspector of Livestock Services. The same five technical
divisions are represented at the district leveL under a Chief of Kabupaten
Livestock Services. A livestock officer is stationed in all subdistricts.
Total staff of the Livestock Services in Nusa Tenggara is 933 of which 21% are
in provincial offices. Nineteen percent of the staff ale graduates but 50% of
the NTB graduates and 26.4% of the NTT graduates are in the provincial
offices. The shortage of vehicles as well as operational, maintenance and
travel funds, limit the effective performance of the field service.
11.       In addition to the field livestock services, there are a number of
activities of the technical services in NTB and NTT. Production activities
are based at two stations for livestock breeding and fodder production, one at
Serading, NTB and the other at Lili, NTT. The Serading station breeds
improved Bali cattle with bilateral support from New Zealand. Livestock
disease diagnostic services are provided by the two provincial laboratories at
Mataram and Kupang supported by the regional laboratory at Denpasar (Bali),
however, the regional laboratory is reluctant to take diagnostic material from
NTB and NTT because of the presence of anthrax in the region. Two kabupaten
laboratories have been established at Sumbawa and Bima.
12.       Extension Services.  Extension within NTB and NTT is supported by
the World Bank under the Second National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP
II) which was intended to introduce the training and visit system of
extension. For Nusa Tenggara, one extension worker (PPL) is to be provided
for about 950 farmers and a total of 76 Food Crop Rural Extension Centers
(REC) are to be constructed, each serving 10,000 ha of cultivated land. A
district extension officer supported by two senior extension workers (PPM)
supervises all activities and programs. One senior subject matter specialist
(PPS) is also provided for each kabupaten and five for each province.
13.       NTB has achieved its target with regard to RECs and exceeded its
target with regard to PPL, PPM and PPS. In NTT, 41 of the planned 42 RECs are
in place but only 48% of the planned number of PPLs have been recruited.
About 41 of the 64 PPM are available and only 7 of the 17 PPS are in
position. Although about 100 agricultural high school graduates become
available every year in NTT, it is difficult to attract them to take PPL
posts, especially in the more remote districts where rental housing is
virtually impossible to find. Since vehicles and equipment stipulated in NAEP
II have not been fully procured, or, where procured, are not appropriately
used improvements to the extension service been limited.



- 65 -                            ANNEX III
Page 4
Input Supply
14.       In 1983/84, some 19,000 tons of fertilizer were distributed in NTB
and 12,000 tons were distributed in NTT, mainly urea, TSP and some KCL.
Fertilizer consumption in these two provinces has fluctuated widely due to
drought and changes in the number of farmers eligible for credit. It is
reported that fertilizer supply is generally sufficient to meet current
demand, but the demand is low relative to other provinces. In the past few
years, consumption of insecticides and rodenticides stagnated at 150-160 tons
in each province and supply has exceeded actual demand.
Credit
15.       Agricultural credit for food crops and livestock development is
provided by the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRT) which operates through its village
units located throughout the project area. The Bank has a regional office in
each of the two provincial capitals, and 14 branches in NTB and 13 branches in
NTT. There are 67 village units in NTB and 165 in NTT disbursing credit to
farmers under various schemes. The Bank Esport Impor Indonesia (BEII) is the
credit bank for cotton production, and the PTPs provide technical advice as
well as assistance for loan processing, supervision and collecting repayments
for BEII.
16.       Input credit packages are provided to farmers for single crops and
some intercrops. Farmers, however, generally have to apply for loans separ-
ately in case of more than one crop, and sometimes to more than one source, in
case of food crops and cotton. A repayment in-kind package administered by
DGLS is available from BRI for cattle breeding and fattening. The performance
of credit recovery in NTT and NTB has deteriorated from about 95% in 1970/71
to 4OZ in 1982/83 for food crops and from 68-IOOZ in 1978/79 to 35-64% in
1983/84 for cotton. The main reasons for deterioration in loan repayment are
crop failure due to drought, pests and diseases; poor crop management and
care; insufficient incentives to repay loans, and weak collection efforts by
BRI. In the case of cotton, low yields have led to default as debt recovery
is a first charge against payment from the ginnery. For the livestock
repayment in-kind program, poor performance has been due to difficulties in
repaying female offspring (which is required in the national program) together
with poor monitoring and an unwillingness of farmers to declare calves.
Storage and Processing
17.       The existing total storage capacities for input distribution irn the
two provinces are adequate. P.T. Pusri alone has fertilizer storage
capacities of 24,700 tons in NTT and 33,910 tons NTB. These capacities are
more than sufficient compared with the amount of inputs distributed in
1983/84. Storage capacities for commodities owned by DOLOG (the provincial
representative of BULOG) are about 48,000 tons and 96,000 tons in NTT and NTB
respectively, located at provincial and most kabupaten levels. Existing
storage facilities are reported to be adequate. For cotton ginning, PTP XXVII
in NTB and PTP XXVI in NTT each own a ginnery. Each ginnery has a capacity of
12,000 tons per year (100 working days). Because of the small cotton
production in NTT and NTB (about 300 tons and 600 tons respectively in



- 66 -
ANNEX III
Page 5
1983/84), these two ginneries are under-utilized. Lint is sold mainly in
Surabaya for final processing.
Marketing
18.       In 1983/84, DOLOG procured about 8,500 tons of paddy and 3,300 tons
of corn in NTT and about 9,500 tons of paddy and 150 tons of corn in NTB which
accounted for only about 2X of the total production of paddy and corn in NTT
and about 10% in NTB. Procurement prices, fixed annually, are generally lower
than the open market prices. PTP XXVII in NTB and PTP XXVI in NTT are respon-
sible for procurement of seed cotton from farmers, and for ginning and mar-
keting of lint. The price for seed cotton, based on world market prices, is
usually fixed by PTPs before the crop season. This fixed price (average
Rp 330/kg) results in reasonable incomes at yield levels of between 800-900
kg/ha.
19.       NTT and NTB are major sources of livestock supply for consumption
mainly in Jakarta and for redistribution for breeding in other islands.
Smaller animals are consumed locally. Livestock marketing is generally done
through several brokers and traders before reaching consumers. The movement
and slaughter of animals is fully controlled by the Directorate-General of
Livestock Services (DGLS) which operates through its provincial and kabupaten
offices and quarantine stations. Due to increasing demands (cons'=ption and
redistribution) from other islands, current prices paid to farmers for
livestock are reasonable and financially attractive. However, a substantial
proportion of the current price is absorbed by traders' commissions, DGLS'
fees (inspection and quarantine control), and high transport costs due to poor
communication networks.
20.       There is a shortage of livestock markets and slaughterhouses for
locally consumed animals. Livestock market sites with no facilities are
utilized regularly by producers and traders and only in NTB have more
permanent markets been developed. No livestock markets in either province
have scales.  Slaughterhouses at the ka  -aten level in both provinces are
poorly constructed and equipped. At kc-.amaten level, most of the animals
consumed are slaughtered without fixed acilities.



- 67 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
General
1.        Statements of expenditure (SOE) would be used for Bank disbursement
against the items listed in Table : and detailed below. To permit adequate
bookkeeping and timely submission of SOEs, qualified accountants would be
hired by those agencies listed below and engagement of suitably qualified
consultants would be a condition of disbursement against these project
components. Since certified public accountants are rare in the Outer Islands,
most of those employed are expected to be former government officials or bank
employees with strong auditing and accounting experience. The employment of
such consultants would be subject to the review and approval by the Bank, and
consultant costs would be reimbursed 100Z under the proposed loan.
2.        All agencies would be expected to maintain adequate accounts and
retain documentation in the project office for audit and review. Both
requests for reimbursement based on standard documentation and on SOEs would
be submitted te the Ministery of Finance on a quarterly basis or when
expenditures total US$100,000, whichever is sooner. Copies would also be sent
to the Bangda Secretariat which would maintain a record of disbursement
applications which have been submitted for the various project components.
Table 1: ITEMS COVERED BY STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURE
Item                                               Loan Amount
(US$ '000)
(a)  Farming system survey and research (AARD)                       900
(b) Field expenditure for cotton demonstration
and verification trials (DCE)                                   200
(c)  Training {AARD, DGE, DGLS)                                      500
(d)  Pro-vincially implemented activities (BANGDA/BAPPEDAS)       11,000
Total                                                    12,600



- 68 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 2
Detailed Features
3.        Research.  The farming systems survey would be carried out by AARD
staff, university scientists and students. All associated expenditures
enumerated in the approved inception report/TORs would be potentially eligible
for Bank reimbursement; SOEs would also be submitted for all research carried
out by the EIIU or BALITAS. These would cover supplies, labor and associated
field expenses, travel and per diem and staff allowances. Seventy percent of
expenditures would be reimbursed against SOEs which would be submitted
quarterly.
4.        Cotton development.  Records of all expenditures incurred by the
PTPs in demonstration activities and verification trials would be maintained
by PTP accountants and used to generate a per hectare cost. Disbursement
would be made on the basis of quarterly SOEs indicating the hectares involved,
per hectare cost and cost breakdown of a representative hectare.
5.        Training.  For training and agreed study visits, project agencies
would maintain documentation on the cost of travel, housing, per diem, train-
ing and follow-up and this information would be used to determine the cost of
training staff and farmers on a per capita basis. Disbursements would be made
on the basis of quarterly SOEs indicating the number of people trained, the
type of training and the unit cost.
6.        Provincially implemented components.  All provincially implemented
activities which cost less than Rp 1 million (about US$90,000) would be
reimbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure. Project receipts would
be compiled and summarized by the provincial PMUs and a summary of expendi-
tures would be forwarded quarterly to Bangda, where they would be reviewed by
the central accounting unit and forwarded to the MOF. Reimbursement would be
for 70% of the cost of civil works, equipment and supplies (other than reserve
procurement vehicles), training and manpower development, travel and per diem
and honoraria for project staff. Contracts over Rp 1 million would be
reimbursed on the basis of standard documentation. Since trained manpower is
in short supply, disbursements would be made against the salaries of
incremental project staff providing that these expenditures do not exceed 20%
of AOP budgets and expenditures. Incremental staff are defined as individuals
who have no other government salary and are hired for project purposes. SOEs
would indicate that such individuals are "project staff only" and compliance
with this requirement would be monitored during supervision.



ANNEX V
- 69 -                               Page 1
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Materials on Project Data Available in the Project File
Al   The Economy of East Nusa Tenggara.  J. L. C. Vellin.
A2   The Economy of West Nusa Tenggara.  Paul Deuster.
B.   Feasibility Studies for the Project
B1   Feasibility Study for Cotton Development in Nusa Tenggara.  Louis
Berger International. Five volumes.
B2   Feasibility Study for a Livestock Development Project in NTT.  Acil
Australia Pty. Ltd.
B3   Feasibility Study for a Livestock Development Project in NTB.  GRH
International Pty. Ltd.
B4   East Indonesia Rainfed Agriculture Study (Agricultural Support
Services Improvement Project). Judd and Campbell. Two volumes.
B5   Development Strategy for South Lombok Area NTB.  Noel Haug for Acil
Australia Pty Ltd.
B6   Development Strategy for Lembor NTT.  Noel Haug for Acil Australia
Ltd.
C.   Working Papers Covering Project Components
Cl   Agricultural Research and Cotton Development
C2   Cattle Development
C3   Road improvement
C4   Provincial Agricultural Support and Pilot Area Development
Components
C5   PPIPD II - UNDP Project Document and Terms of Reference for the
Irian Jaya Regional Development Study
D.   Other Working Papers Prepared by Bank Staff
Dl   Detailed Cost Tables
D2   Economic Analysis



id-   17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lr                                                                                                                              AqL". ', IAs- 
_ _,__  &U _"C:S CN           a  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~.      2?                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4
/ /          NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                Flores          Sea
PAENINSULARS                                                                       T       .MUR                             -
IND<-NESIA         _               \                                                         {S)                   ,    [      TIMOR
'~~~'~~~       PULAU  SUMBAWA    ~ ~ ~~~~~LmorNA                                                  dn                                                                  TIMUR
NUSA   TENGGARA   TIMUR
Sawu       Sea-
NUSA  TNGOARA INDONESIA                                                                                                                              -.-                      TLR
" NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT                           SUMBA '--
PROPOSEO PROJECT.                                                                                                                                           Timor
Pilot Area Development                                                                             P. SAvU                                                   Sa
A   Research Site%                                                                              -.
Agricultural Support Services Compnoh is
-   Road to be Improved                                                      t                                                       R0n
.MMU Area Suitable for Cotton
Rocds
* - --- Sbdistrirt Boundaries
Province Bourdris                                                                                                                                      --
_ Inenatil Soudaries*
'   -,s.                                              O                 IX               to                3a0ras ~~~~~~~~~6'__:o
-Ir                 INDIA N             :OCEAN                                                                                                                     .:.  .         __, _             I
114'                                      IIF                                    IS?                                    Ii?                                   124
SEPTEMBER 1MBl






