Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14720
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TNDONESIA
NIUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL
SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2638-IND)
JUNE 27, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(October 1994)
USS1Q00 = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)2,100
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
Apnl - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD                 Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AIDAB                Australian Intemational Development Assistance Bureau'
AOP                  Annual Operating Plan
APBD                 Provincial Budget
APBN                 National Budget
BALITAS              Research Institute for Tobacco and Fiber Crops
BANGDA               Directorate General of Regional Development
BAPPEDA              Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS             Natonal [)'eveloprnent Planning Agency
BRI                  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CIPTA KARYA          Directorate General of Human Settlements
CP                   FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
DGE                  Directorate General of Estates
DGFC                 Directorate General of Food Crops
DGLS                 Directorate General of Livestock Services
GOT                  Govemment of Indonesia
IFAD                 Intemahonal Fund for Agricultural Development
Kabupaten           l)istrict
Kecematan            Subdistnct
Kekanwil             Head of the provincial offices of national minstries
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MPW                  Ministry of Public Works
NAEP                 National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP                 National Agricultural Research Project
NGO                  Non-Government Organization
NTB                  Nusa Tenggara Barat (West Nusa Tenggara)
NTT                  Nusa T enggara Timur (East Nusa Tenggara)
OPS                  Office of Project Services (UNDP)
PCU                  Project Coordinating Unit
PDP                  Provincial Development Project
PMU                  Project Management Unit
PPfPD                Project for Regional Planning and Preparation of Investment Onrented Projects
SATGAS               Livestock Field Team
SOE                  Statement of Expenses
UNDP                 [Jnited Nations Development Program
Recently renamed as AtisAID



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ............... .. .                    ......,,,,,,,,,,.......i
Evaluation Summary ........
PART I: PROJECT INMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..........................    , 1I
B. Achievement of Objectives ................................................ ,.2
Financial Objectives                                .2
Increasing Farm Incomes                                .3
Physical Objectives                                 .8
Institutional Objectives                              .9
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .11
D. Project Sustainability ................... ,... 12
E. Bank Perfomance .13
F. Borrower Performance ..................                                                    14
G. Assessment of Outcome .15
H. Future Operations .                                                                        15
I. Key Lessons Learned ................                                                       16
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3: Project Timetable .20
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .24
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ................... .... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 8A: Project Costs .........................................                                                               27
Table 8B: Project Financing .........................................                                                           27
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................... 28
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .........................................                                                  29
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ....................                              ..................... 30
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................                                               30
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .........................................                                                   31
APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
B: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
Map No. IBRD 19000R



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2638-IND
Preface
1.           This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Nusa Tenggara
Agricultural Support Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2638-IND in the amount of US$33.0 million
was approved in December, 1985, and became effective in April, 1986.
2.           The Loan closed on October 31, 1994, compared with the original closing date of
October 31, 1992. Final disbursements were made on March 14, 1995, bringing cumulative total
disbursements to US$30.012 million, and cancellation of the undisbursed amount of US$2.988.
3.           This ICR was prepared by the staff of FAO/CP on behalf of the EA3AG Division of
the Asia Region and reviewed by Messrs. Osman Farruk Senior Agricultural Economist (EA3AG),
Gershon Feder, Division Chief (EA3AG), and Richard Calkins, Operations Adviser (EA3DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun at the same time as the Bank's final supervision mission which
visited Indonesia between October 17 and November 4, 1994. It is based on material in the project
files as well as findings of the ICR mnission in the field. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by providing comments, contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and
preparing Appendix B of the ICR.
i



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2638-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.          The Bank Group's agricultural lending to Indonesia began with the first irrigation and
swamp reclamation projects in 1969. Since then, agricultural lending has both widened, in terms of
expanding coverage of sub-sectors within agriculture, and deepened, in terms of successive
interventions in support of the institutional framework to sustain higher productivities. The results have
been impressive. A major part of these efforts have been on Java and Sumatra, the most populous and
productive of the islands. Since the early 1980s, however, one aspect of Bank lending has been aimed
at promoting equitable growth through the development of the least developed areas of the other
islands. Regional development efforts have been undertaken through multi-sectoral interventions aimed
at both easing infrastructural constraints and increasing production and incomes. One dimension of the
effort has also been strengthening the capacity of the provincial governments to implement area
development programs.
2.          The Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project (NTASP) was implemented in
two of Indonesia's poorest provinces, Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) and Nusa Tenggara
Timur (NTT). It focused on ten districts (kabupatens) selected on the basis of relative poverty
and underdevelopment within their respective provinces, and had the following major objectives:
raising smallholder incomes, promoting equitable regional development, strengthening local level
institutions and improving multi-sectoral planning and implementation at both the national,
provincial and district/local levels. These objectives were consistent with the Borrower's strategy
for poverty alleviation and equitable regional development, as well as with the Bank's overall
country assistance strategy for Indonesia. As these provinces have relatively untested agricultural
potential and limited implementation capacity, a major purpose of the project was to demonstrate
alternative approaches to agricultural development through sectoral programs, complementary
provincial programs, area development and pilot projects. Strengthening provincial and local
level planning and implementation capability as a model for regional development which could be
extended to other areas of the country remained an equally important objective of the project. The
implementation experiences, outcome and achievements of the project have to be assessed against
the backdrop of its being the first phase of a long-term agricultural development program in an
agro-ecologically difficult area and the exploratory (pilot) nature of many of its interventions.
.i.



3.           With the exception of the cotton development and cattle fattening activities, project
components were clearly focused on the key constraints to long-term improvements in smaflholder
income in the project areas. The broad-based development approach for the region required, of
necessity, involvement of a number of agencies making the organization and management of the
project seemingly complex, particularly in view of the institutional weaknesses in the provinces and at
the local levels. This was however, adequately recognized in the design of the project and the potential
risks were minimised through a project organization and implementation arrangements that provided
for implementation of the key components by the relatively more experienced national agencies,
alongside considerable inputs for strengthening of local level institutions, and made the different
components relatively independent of each other so that delays in one would not affect implementation
of the others, or of the project as a whole. Additionally, provisions for pilot interventions and research
efforts prior to large-scale beneficiary involvement were made, program planning and implementation
responsibilities were decentralized at the provincial/district levels, and not all project activities were
mandated for implementation in all project locations.
Implementation Experience
4.           The loan for the project was approved in December, 1985, and became effective in
April, 1986. The project was scheduled for implementation over a period of six years with a
stipulated loan closing date of October 31, 1992. Implementation during the first year was
unsatisfactory due to delays in setting up the project organization, recruitment of key managerial
and technical staff and release of budgets. Project implementation, however, proceeded well
during the later years. Most physical targets specified at appraisal were substantially achieved or
exceeded by the original loan closing date, and actual disbursements exceeded appraisal targets
significantly during the first four years of project implementation. Loan disbursements however
slowed down during the latter part of the project period as most of the lumpy expenditures (T.A.,
civil works, cattle distribution) had already been incurred. The principal justification for the two
extensions of the Bank loan, to October 31,1994, was to allow the consolidation and application
of the physical, technical and organizational achievements and capitalize on the momentum
generated into effective program development.
5.        At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$59.0 million, including US$10.2 million
in price and physical contingencies. Total project expenditure at project completion is estimated at
US$54.0 million or about 92% of SAR estimates. Total disbursements of the Bank Loan at final
closing of the loan on March 14, 1995, amounted to US$30.01 million, equivalent to about 91% of the
total Bank Loan and about 56% of total project costs. The GOI provided some 290/o of total costs,
UNDP 8% and the AusAID the remaining 7%.
6.         At all levels of the Government-national, provincial, district and sub-district-
commitment to the project and measures undertaken for its effective implementation has been
impressive. The project was adequately funded through the national budgetary allocations,
although pace and quality of implementation sometimes suffered due to delayed release of
budgeted funds. But this problem was not peculiar to NTASP as all development projects in
Indonesia experience this. The Government also was in compliance with the covenants of the
ifi



loan agreement, except for the ones requiring them to provide sufficient numbers of motorcycles
and other vehicles, and for adequate maintenance of roads improved or constructed under the
project. Implementing agencies were responsive to supervision mission recommendations, even
when they involved difficult choices such as discontinuing certain activities, and have endeavored
to take remedial measures in a timely fashion. It is particularly noted that senior officials from
BANGDA, BAPPENAS, AARD, DGLS and the Ministry of Agriculture were regular participants
in Bank supervision missions, as were the senior officials from the BAPPEDAS and the Dinases,
and actively contributed to the missions' activities. However, the large number of studies
undertaken in various activities and disciplines, were not adequately  followed-up by the
Government and the recommendations were not translated into appropriate policies and actions.
Thus, many of the potential benefits from these studies were not realized. Part of the problem
arose because most of the documents were written in English.
7.         The Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was satisfactory-particularly in
the orientation of its support for decentralized decision making. The project benefited from a high
degree of supervision and monitoring. Project supervision has been systematic and consistent,
recommending a number of evaluations on specific activities before deciding to curtail or strengthen
them. While substantial flexibilities were given to the implementing agencies, supervision missions
nonetheless demonstrated appropriate firmness in persuading the government to drop activities with
questionable viability. Yet, in hindsight, it appears that greater attention to the technical aspects of
implementation during supervision would have revealed, early in the annual programming stages, the
non-sustainability of a number of the interventions, and helped in improving the technical aspects of
implementation of the others. It also appears that stricter prioritization and greater analytical rigor at
appraisal would have demonstrated the lack of technical and economic justification for activities such
as cotton development and smallholder cattle fattening, as well as of the doubtful rationale for the two
experimental district based IADPs.
Project Outcome
8.         The overall outcome and achievements of the project have been satisfactory,
particularly when judged from the perspective of the operation being the first-phase of a long-
term program for the development of an area where poor natural resource base, harsh agro-
ecological conditions, and deficient institutions and infrastructure act as major constraints to
agricultural development. Instituting a process of addressing these constraints in a systematic way
was perhaps the most important overall outcome of the project. Some of the specific outcomes
are summarized below.
9.         The project established the physical infrastructure, institutions and programs for
improving the technological base for agricultural development in the two provinces. It has
introduced a whole farm (farming systems) approach for improving smallholder production and
income, as well as identified and tested a number of technological packages for some of the arid
and semi-arid areas of the two provinces. While the technical parameters of these packages will
need to be further refined and their socio-economic viability more rigorously evaluated,
preliminary indications show good promises. This is a significant outcome as it has established
iv



the building blocks for further work on technology generation for farming systems development in
the region.
10.        The distribution of breeding cattle to some 18,500 poor farm families, apart from
supporting the development of a smallholder-based semi-intensive Bali cattle breeding system,
also contributed to improvements in crop productivity and farm income among the recipients,
most of whom were poor families. Despite lower than expected calving and higher calf mortality
rates, the herd size has grown by over 48% and is fast becoming a source for further distribution
of heifers. Development of a cadre of well trained field staff (SATGAS) has been an important
outcome of this component as it has strengthened the government's capability to continue the
cattle distribution program. The benefits of this activity can be further increased if animal
husbandry and veterinary care are improved.
11.        The project contributed to improvements in the physical infrastructure in some of
the project areas. Some 152 kms of provincial roads were upgraded/rehabilitated, feasibility
studies for further improvements of the road network were undertaken and workshop facilities for
plant and equipment maintenance were improved in three districts. A large number of offices, staff
houses, animal health posts and diagnostic laboratories, seed multiplication centers, quarantine
stations, etc., were constructed and/or rehabilitated. While these improved the physical facilities
for the delivery of agricultural support services in the project locations, inadequate funds for
operation and maintenance has constrained the effective utilization of these facilities.
12.        The wide ranging activities implemented under the agricultural support services
and pilot area development components, had varying results. Most of the interventions were
consistent with the perceived development needs of the respective areas and yielded satisfactory
results; however, some were not properly conceived, designed and/or implemented, resulting in
their discontinuation or and or non-replication. Project support  for the construction and/or
rehabilitation of village irrigation schemes (153 units) has directly contributed to increased farm
production and income in their respective areas of influence. Implementation of this component
also helped in developing a working mechanism for partnership between the local communities
and public sector agencies in implementing such micro projects. Distribution of goats (15,400),
pigs (220) and ducks (8,670), has mostly benefited the marginal farmers, and the landless and
women segments of the rural population. In the pilot IADP districts, land certificates were
issued to 3,900 rural households, a rural drinking water system benefiting some 4,000 families
and low-cost rural housing for over 600 families were constructed, social forestry plantations
covering some 2,000 ha were planted, and improved support services resulted in substantial
production increases in an irrigated area. On the other hand, project support for developing
smallholder tree crops, seeds and seedlings production, small village agro-processing facilities,
village weaving, brackish water and pond fisheries, and soil conservation did not have any
noteworthy outcome and development impact.
13.          A  significant outcome of the project was in the areas of institutional
development. It strengthened the local, provincial and national level institutions in their
v



respective roles in planning, implementing, and coordinating decentralized and multi-sectoral
interventions. The focus on implementation through the existing administrative structure at the
provincial and district/sub-district levels, and a systematic effort for using the project area NGOs,
were important aspects of project implementation. A large number of staff at the local levels were
trained through more than a hundred in-service training courses, and a substantial amount of
national and expatriate technical assistance in various specialties were provided to the
implementing agencies. The project helped improve the awareness and motivation among the line
agencies at the Provincial and District levels on matters affecting local development, and made
important strides in improving inter-agency coordination. Project implementation, however,
should have paid greater attention to broad-based participation of the beneficiary and local
communities in the planning and implementation of the development initiatives.
14.          An impact evaluation study by consultants, financed by the UNDP and managed by
BANGDA, have concluded that the project had directly benefited some 100,000 rural households,
most of them in the lowest income group, and increased their incomes by 25-50% depending on the
nature of support received. For example, recipients of cattle increased their incomes by about 54% in
NTB, and 36% in NTT; village irrigation schemes resulted in 47% increases in farmer income; goat
rearing increased incomes by 36%, while adoption of project induced land conservation measures had
increased income by about 14%. However, the re-estimated economic return for the cattle and roads
components (no overall ERR was estimated at appraisal) are substantially lower than the appraisal
estimates but within acceptable limits.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.        The project marks the beginning of the government's efforts to address the key
constraints to agricultural development and decentralization of local development programs in the
two provinces of NTB and NTT in particular, and the eastern region in general. Despite the
inexperiences of the public sector agencies in the implementation of decentralized local
development programs, and the existence of many institutional and infrastructural constraints, the
project was implemented satisfactorily and benefited a large number of rural families. A wide
array of activities, spread over ten districts and some fifty sub-districts, were undertaken. Not all
of them were efficiently implemented, nor all will achieve the development objectives or be
sustainable over the longer term.  On the whole, however, the project outcome has been
satisfactory and has contributed to some improvements in the income of the participants, and at a
relatively modest investment of about US$550 per household over a 8.5 year implementation
period.
16.          Sustainability of the development initiatives and outcome of the project will require
continued support from the national and provincial budgets for maintaining and further upgrading the
agricultural support services and the socio-economic infrastructure fostered under the project. Given
the government's poor record in providing sufficient funds for operation and maintenance expenses,
this remains a potential threat to the sustainabilty of the project.  However, Government's
demonstrated support for the project, and its commitment for poverty alleviation and accelerated
development of the eastem region, give reasons to believe that reasonable levels of funding will be
vi



maintained during the operational phase of the project.' The Bank is also processing a follow-on
project, the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project (FY 96), which would help in the
consolidation and enhanced sustainabilty of the NTASP induced development initiatives.
17.           The project has strengthened the mechanism, and developed a cadre of trained field
staff, for the collection and redistribution cattle and goats returned as credit repayment, as well as an
operational framework for supporting small village irrigation schemes. Given the high demand from
the fanners to participate in these activities, it is expected that they will be sustained alongside the
associated income generation. Sustainabilty of the farming systems development program, however,
could be threatened unless the technology packages were further streamlined to achieve potential cost
reductions, viable arrangements for short-term financing of inputs were made and the institutional and
infrastructural constraints to input supply and produce marketing had been addressed.
18.           The project has provided a number of useful lessons relating to project design,
beneficiary participation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation. These are summarized below:
(a) first, broad-based development needs of areas characterized by seriously deficient
technological, institutional and infrastructural constraints will often require a wide range of
interventions to ensure a minimum critical effort for initiating development of such areas.
However, the complexities and implementation risks inherent in such multi-sectoral projects
should be minimized by stricter prioritization of development needs and greater analytical rigor in
determining the technical, socio-economic and fiscal viability of any proposed activity. The
primary focus should be on supporting activities that foster productivity improvements and
income generation, limiting investments on social and physical infrastructure to activities that
would be critical for supporting this core objective, (b) second,  program  planning and
implementation should be decentralized at the level closest to the potential beneficiaries, but with
clear administrative, technical and operational linkages between the different tiers the government;
(c) third; at all stages of the project cycle community and beneficiary participation should be
ensured, and towards that end comprehensive social assessments and participation strategy studies
should be undertaken early in the project cycle; (d) fourth, while block financial allocations for
local level development are attractive due to their flexibility and being demand responsive, they
also have the potential to promote far too many activities. Such implementation approaches
should, therefore, be backed by appropriate guidelines and mechanisms, as well as human
resource development at the local level, for establishing clear objectives, priorities and rationale
for any proposed development initiative; (e) fifth, investments in technology generation as well
as for addressing key infrastructure bottlenecks should be programmed early in the project
implementation period; (f) sixth, in-kind revolving credit system has the potential to reach the
beneficiaries effectively and, in some instances, is a more attractive alternative to smallholder
credit through financial intermediaries. However, monetization of an in-kind credit system, as was
attempted for the cattle credit under the project, should be avoided; (g) seventh; development of
agro-ecologically difficult and socio-economically complex areas should be approached as a long-
The Governnent did provide sufficient funds for the continuation of project activities during the remaining period
of the terminal year of the project (fiscal year 1994-95) despite the Bank loan having closed on October 31, 1994,
which is indicative of this.
vii



term program requiring a succession of interventions each, building on the experiences and
lessons of the preceding operation(s); and (h) lastly, comprehensive but appropriately focused
mid-term reviews should be used as the key instrument for appropriate mid-course corrections;
however, routine supervisions should also continuously focus on reviewing the rationale, technical
and management soundness and likely development impact of all project activities.
viii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2638-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.          Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project (NTASP) was implemented in two of the
poorest provinces of Indonesia, Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT), and
had the following major objectives: help raise smallholder incomes, particularly among the poorest
segments of the population; promote equitable regional development; and decentralize planning and
implementation of development initiatives at the district/local levels. The project's objectives were
consistent with the borrower's strategy for poverty alleviation and equitable regional development for
Indonesia, as well as the Bank's overall country assistance strategy. Total project costs at appraisal
were estimated at US$59.0 million (including US$10.2 million in price and physical contingencies) and
it was stipulated that IBRD would finance about 56 percent of total project costs, Government of
Indonesia 31 percent, UNDP 6 percent, AIDAB 5 percent and the ADB 2 percent.
2.           The project included the following components/activities: farming systems and cotton
research (US$5.9 million), cotton development (US$1.9 million), cattle development (US$9.1 million),
roads improvement (US$12.9 million), agricultural support services improvements (US$8.5 million),
pilot integrated area development (US$3.6 million), and technical assistance for regional development
studies, project preparation and implementation support for NTASP (US$6.9 million).  Over
70 percent of the proposed investments were for agricultural (50 percent) and infrastructure (22
percent) development. Given that both these provinces had untested agricultural potential, an
inadequate information base for the existing cropping systems, a virtual lack of technology for
improving agricultural production, limited institutional capacity for planning and implementation of
development initiatives, and poor physical and socio-economic infrastructure, the overall project
objectives and the balance of the components of the project were justified. Project components were
also clearly focused on the objectives outlined as well as on the key constraints to long-term
improvements in smallholder income. Thus, improving the technological base for long-term and
sustainable productivity gains in smallholder agriculture through farming systems research was an
overarching component of the project. Distribution of cattle for breeding and fattening purposes, and
the testing of the potential for expanding cotton production also formed an integral part of the strategy.
Immediate infrastructure constraints were to be addressed through a roads improvement prograrn,
accounting for more than a quarter of project costs, as well as through complementary investments



-2 -
under an ADB-financed roads project. Institutional development was to be promoted by directing
financial and technical (including training, coordination and human resources development) support to
provincial and other local level agencies to identify priorities for support under the project as well as to
plan and implement them. The nature of the activities supported through the provincial and local
agencies ran a wide range of investments that were directly productive as well as strengthened social
infrastructure.
3.           The broad-based development approach for the region required, of necessity,
involvement of a number of agencies making the organization and management of the project
seemingly complex, particularly in view of the institutional weaknesses in the provinces. In order to
minimize the potential implementation risks due to weaknesses in local level institutions, the project
design provided for: (a) implementation of the key components by the relatively more experienced
national agencies, (b) considerable inputs for the strengthening of local level institutions, and
(c) relatively independent implementation of the different components so that delays in one would not
affect the implementation of the others or of the project as a whole. Technological risks in agriculture
were to be minimized by supporting a number of pilot interventions and research efforts prior to large-
scale smallholder involvement. Most importantly, program planning and implementation responsibilities
were not vested in a central project management unit but were decentralized at the provincial/district
levels, and not all project activities were mandated for implementation in all project locations. This
flexible and decentralized approach to programming and implementation helped to avoid some of the
well known pitfalls in a so-called complex multisectoral project.
B. ACHI1EVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Financial Objectives
4.           Total project expenditure at completion, some two years after the original loan closing
date of October 31, 1992, is estimated at US$54.0 million or about 92 percent of the total costs
(US$59.0 million) estimated at appraisal. Total disbursements at closing of the Loan Account on
March 14,1995, amounted to US$30.01 million, equivalent to about 91 percent of the total Bank loan
of US$33.0 million.
5.           The relative composition and absolute amounts of project expenditures on the
various components are different than those stipulated at appraisal, as a proportion of total project
expenditures as well as in absolute amounts. The most significant differences' are (a) substantially
lower expenditures on cotton development (SAR estimates of 1.9 million versus actual
expenditures of US$0.6 million), roads improvement (US$12.9 million versus US$9.5 million),
cattle development (US$9.1 million versus US$6.9 million) components, and (b) substantial
increases in the provincial agricultural support services and pilot area development (US$12.1
million versus US$18.9 million), and in technical assistance (US$8.4 million versus $11.3 million).
I     Actual project expenditures compared with SAR estimates of base cost.



-3 -
Lower expenditures on cotton development was the consequence of a recommendation by the
Mid-Term Review (MTR) to stop its further funding due to concerns about technical and socio-
economic sustainability of cotton development in the project areas. Expenditures on roads were
lower partly because some 40 kms of programmed road construction on the Flores island (NTT)
was not undertaken due to problems with the award of civil works contract. Expenditures on the
provincial component exceeded the SAR estimates primarily because the Bank and the
Government agreed to continue the activities following the promising outcome of the first three
years of 'pilot' implementation of the component envisaged at appraisal. The costs of farming
systems research exceeded original estimates because additional investments were necessary to
carry out extensive farm level testing and diffusion of the new technologies developed under the
component. Costs of UNDP and AusAID technical assistance increased because of additional
requirements for technical as well as monitoring and evaluation studies, project preparation for
Irian Jaya, South-east Sulawesi and the second phase of the NTASP. The increased expenditures
on the these above mentioned activities were justified as they supported the Government's
objectives for decentralized local level development, defining a  strategy  and identifying
investment opportunities for accelerated development of the eastern island provinces, and for
improving the technological base for sustainable agricultural development in the poorer areas of
the Eastern Region.
6.           The implementation of the project's financial expenditure objectives proceeded well.
Actual disbursements exceeded appraisal targets significantly during the first four years of project
implementation. Loan disbursements, however, slowed down during the latter part of the project
period as most of the lumpy expenditures (TA, civil works, cattle distribution) had already been
incurred, and, more importantly, as implementation focused more on consolidation of successfil
activities and scaling down/relegation of the non-viable ones. The project, however, began to gain
momentum in the last two years of the implementation period, reflecting mainly an expanded program
for the testing and diffusion of the research recommended farming systems technologies, and also
improved institutional capabilities for planning and implementation of project activities. The two
extensions of the closing date of the Bank loan quite effectively supported this important process of
consolidation, and application of the physical, technical and organizational achievements for furither
program development.
Increasing Farm Incomes
7.           Farming Systems Research (FSR).2 The project was successful in establishing the
essential physical infrastructure, institutions and programs for agricultural research in the two provinces
and a beginning was made to introduce the whole farm approach in addressing the agricultural
development and rural income generation issues in the arid and semi-arid areas of Eastern Indonesia.
Surveys of agro-ecosystems of the project areas were undertaken and a large number of "on-farm"
cropping trials were conducted leading to the development of ten potentially viable technology
2     12.6% of actual costs at project completion.



-4 -
packages for increasing agricultural productivities and farm incomes in different agro-ecological
environments of the region.
8.           During the final two years of the project, a program for large scale introduction of
these packages was undertaken. Most of the first year requirements of inputs were subsidized by the
project, while some were provided on an in-kind repayment basis. Farmer acceptance of and returns to
the adopted technology have been reportedly good but no systematic evaluation was carried out by the
project to support this claim. High costs of the input packages, inadequacies in the institutional
arrangements for timely availability of farm inputs (good quality seeds and seedlings, fertilizer and
pesticides) and credit, and institutional/infrastructural constraints in produce marketing, are issues that
will need to be addressed to ensure widespread diffusion of the farming system development
technologies generated by the project.
9.           There are two other issues relevant to the FSR program that are worth noting. First
the recommendations generated by the FSR were relevant for only part of the complex and diverse
agro-ecological systems of the two provinces. Secondly, the quality, relevance and sustainability of the
farming system research would have been enhanced if greater attention had been paid to the socio-
economic factors at the farmer level, as well as more systematic efforts made to incorporate livestock,
soil conservation and groundwater in the technology packages. Nonetheless, this particular component
has made a good beginning in developing approaches to technology generation for agricultural
development in an agro-ecologically difficult and complex region without the benefit of any existing
institutions and infrastructure. There is a now a need to continue and reinforce the process as well as
to broaden its focus. An important agenda for the future would be to undertake more comprehensive
mapping of the agrosystems as well as of the socio-economic profile of the population of the Nusa
Tenggara region in order to provide an appropriate context for determining the short, medium and
long-term research priorities.
10.          Cotton Development.3 Project support for cotton development has had some success
in improving the technology for cotton production, including identification of more suitable varieties,
promoting integrated pest management and better intercropping, fertilizer use and water management
practices. However, these did not substantially improve the low smallholder yields and relative low
profitability of cotton, either as a sole crop or as an intercrop, because of sub-optimal agro-ecological
conditions (poor soils and erratic rainfall) in many areas where cotton production was being promoted
by the government, non-availability of a high yielding Jessid resistant variety, high costs of pest control,
farm family labour constraints and smallholders' priority to food security concerns. Support for cotton
development activities (stock seed production and distribution, establishing demonstration plots,
preparation of feasibility studies for new cotton project, etc.) was judiciously terminated after three
years of the project following the recommendations of the Mid-Term review. The project, however
continued to provide some modest support for verification trials as an integral part of the FSR
program, the relevance and importance of which should continue to be evaluated.
3      1% of actual costs at project completion.



- 5 -
11.          Cattle Development.4  Cattle distribution for developing breeding herd was well
implemented (over 92 percent of SAR target) but distribution for the fattening program was not
undertaken (except for a small pilot effort) because the potential financial retums from such operations
were found to be unattractive given the high cost of procurement and distribution of animals for
fattening. The distribution of heifers to some 18,500 poor farm families, apart from fostering a semi-
intensive smallholder based cattle breeding system, also improved farm income and crop productivity,
particularly in areas where the recipients could use them for draught power and as sources of organic
manure. Because of these potential benefits, there was a strong demand from smallholders for such
cattle. Despite lower than expected calving and higher calf mortality rates,5 the herd size has already
grown by over 48 percent, and collection and redistribution of offsprings returned as credit repayments
started in 1990. The income and production impact of the distributed cattle would however have been
more pronounced if more focused attention had been paid to animal production issues, such as
improved nutrition, particularly during the dry season, better 'bull management', and more effective
disease management.
12.          Agricultural Support Services.6   Under the Agricultural Support Services
improvement program (ASSP) an impressive array of activities were implemented and/or experimented
with. Not all have succeeded in improving farm incomes. Some were even poorly conceived and/or
badly managed, such as the pilot brackish water fishery in Lombok Tengah, sea-weed and sea-
cucumber development, integrated fish/chicken farms and the village soyabean processing units.
However the implementing agencies were not averse to recognizing the questionable development
impact of some of the initiatives and taking appropriate remedial measures in a timely fashion.
13.          Locally programmed and implemented agricultural support services were packaged
under two different approaches, a district based support services improvement program (ASAP),
covering the key sub-sectors of agriculture, and pilot multi-sectoral integrated area development (LAD)
operations in two selected sub-districts (Lembor in NTT and Central Lombok in NTB). While the
nature of services provided in both approaches essentially covered the same activities in food crops,
livestock, and estate or tree crops development, activities under the TAD approach also included a
wide range of socio-economic infrastructure investments involving rural drinking water, rural roads,
malaria control, small-scale agro-processing, schools, land certification and the like. Activities in food
crop development focused on land conservation, seed/seedling production, crop protection services,
and small village irrigation schemes. Achieving project objectives of increasing farm incomes varied
significantly between interventions. Extension support aimed at improving farm incomes was only
partially achieved since the project did not specifically provide any resources for strengthening these
services in the project areas (except for constructing 300 staff houses and some offices), as it was
expected that such resources would be provided under the on-going Bank-financed National
4      12.8% of actual costs at project completion.
5     Supervision missions and the mid-term review concluded that the SAR estimates were overly optimistic
and not consistent with the performance indicators for other cattle distribution projects in Indonesia.
6     35% of actual costs at project completion.



-6 -
Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP fl)7, as well as for the provision of inputs or credit. Land
conservation measures included bund terracing, contour planting of tree and forage crops with food
crops between the bunds and, lately, alley cropping. Although tackling a recognized problem of soil
erosion (more so on the steeper slopes of NTT), the activity had limited success, partly because the
project was not designed to provide the critical minimum effort, and partly because the agricultural
support services were not effective in diffusing the demonstrated practices. Farmers' perception of
priorities, listing cattle, food crops, water, etc., above land conservation, also viewed the activity as
reducing the food crop area in the short run with no adequate compensation for loss of area and
production, also affected the outcome of the component.8
14.           The project rehabilitated  and upgraded  a number of provincial seed  farms
(BBUs/BBPs), but this did not significantly improve the production of stock and extension seeds,
particularly for the secondary crops. Investments in physical infrastructure development was not
complemented by concerted efforts to develop a functioning contract seed grower system.
Consequently, although farmers cited the availability of either clean HYV or traditional seeds as a
major constraint to increase production and incomes, the project was unable to capitalize on this
demand in a major way. However, in the immediate vicinity of the seed farms improved by the project
there were some improvements in the availability of quality seeds, particularly for paddy.9 It should
also be noted that the small seed production component of the project was not designed to address the
very fundamental institutional and technical constraints to the production and distribution of
certified/good quality seeds in the eastern provinces of the country.
15.           Project support for the construction/rehabilitation of village irrigation had a significant
impact on production and incomes, resulting largely from higher average cropping intensities, crop
yields and increased area under irrigation'°. In some instances, the rehabilitated schemes have resulted
in increased area (by 25-40 percent) under crops as well as a hundred percent increase in cropping
intensities. Although not identified as an activity at preparation and appraisal, the component was one
of the most successful interventions for improving srnallholder crop production and income. The
involvement of farmers in the identification and planning of the interventions, including the construction
of field channels and other works, as well as the effectiveness of technical and advisory support
provided by the local agencies had a visible impact at the farm level. Consequently, farmer enthusiasm
for this activity has been very high and demand for this kind of project support has risen appreciably.
However, the full income potentials of the improvements in the irrigation facilities were not realized in
many instances because of shortage and timely availability of good quality seeds, poor water
It was apparent that the national project was not designed to meet the specific needs for intensified
extension services in the project areas.
8      GOI estimates that land conservation activities of the project resulted in a 13% income increase in NTB,
and 26% in NT7.
9      GOI estimates that the seed production activities resulted in an income increase of 22% in NTB and 12%
in NTIT.
10     GOI estimates that village irrigation development resulted in an increase of 47% under the ASSP
interventions, and 19% for the IAD areas.



7 -
distribution and on-farm water management due to rudimentary secondary and tertiary channels, and
in some cases due to poor access roads.
16.          Smallholder planting of tree crops, covering coconuts, cashews, cocoa and coffee with
smaller areas of vanilla, arecanut, clove, castor and candlenut, were supported under the project as a
means to promote conservation agriculture as well as to provide a stable source of cash income.
However, implementation of the program was unsatisfactory. Average plant mortalities have been high
(about 40-50 percent), maintenance standards are generally low and given the immature status of the
trees, survival rates could drop even further. High mortalities were largely due to poor quality of
seedlings, and off-season planting due to delayed receipt of funds for the production and distribution of
seedlings. The activity was also dominated by a "directed approach" with farmers having little
involvement in either the selection of tree crops or areas. The matching of specific tree crops with the
agro-ecology of the areas planted was not actively pursued. In many areas, farmers were unconvinced
of the benefits of planting tree crops on arable land and maintenance was neglected. Overall impact on
household income, therefore, is likely to be considerably less than anticipated in most of the sites.
17.          Livestock services at the local level covered a number of activities including the
provision of veterinary laboratories, animal health clinics, slaughter houses and livestock markets,
which contributed to some improvements in the quality and coverage of public sector livestock support
services. However, the goat and duck distribution, particularly the former, made noteworthy
contribution to the project's objective of increasing smallholder incomes. The distribution of small
ruminants, provided under an in-kind revolving credit system, was targeted on the lower income
groups, and the program was very effectively implemented, particularly by the local NGOs, who
accounted for over 50 percent of the distribution. Herd expansion, return of off-springs as repayment
and their redistribution are generally satisfactory for most locations. The program appears to have
particularly benefited the landless and the women.
18.          Economic Rate of Return. Largely because of the pilot and institutional building
nature of the project, no overall economic rate of return for the project as well as for the provincially
implemented components, were estimated at appraisal. Individual ERRs were, however, estimated for
the cattle development and road improvement components. An impact evaluation study undertaken by
UNDP-financed consultants during December 1992 and June 1993, concluded that the project had
directly benefited more than 100,000 of the lowest income households in the two provinces, raising
their incomes by about 25-50 percent. However, the re-estimated ERRs for the components were
lower than the appraisal estimates. For example, compared to the SAR estimate of an ERR of
30 percent for cattle breeding (based on a model with two breeding cows), the recalculated ERR is
considerably lower and ranges between 8-12 percent for the different livestock models. This is due to
a significantly lower calving rate and higher costs of animals. The ERR for the roads improvement
component was estimated at 24 percent at appraisal. The revised ERR based on savings in user time
costs, vehicle operating costs and road maintenance savings was estimated at about 12 percent. The
lower rate was due to the lower than anticipated growth in traffic on some sections constructed.



-8 -
Physical Objectives
19.          As shown in Table 5, the project's physical achievements were substantial. In many
cases, it exceeded appraisal targets. Most appraisal targets were achieved by the original loan closing
date; the two extensions accorded by the Bank were primarily for consolidation of the key project
interventions, thereby enhancing their development impact and sustainabilty, and for carrying out a
project impact evaluation study. Physical achievements under the provincially/locally administered
component, although not specified at appraisal, also covered an impressive list of activities, directly
productive as well as supportive investments in socio-economic infrastructure.
20.          For the FSR component, the project established the main research station at Kupang
and two sub-bases at Sandubaya (Lombok, NTB) and Maumere (Flores, NTT), upgraded the research
institute for tobacco and fibre crops (BALITAS) and cotton research facilities at Malang and
Asembagus (East Java) respectively. These included the provision of housing, storage, laboratory and
field equipment. Introduction of the farming systems research recommendations on some 3,300 ha of
smallholder farms in the extremely difficult arid-and semi-arid areas of the two provinces was an
important physical achievement of the project.
21.          With respect to cattle development, the project distributed 20,743 heifers and bulls
(92 percent of SAR target), as well as redistributed another 2,450 and sold 3,700 of the off-springs
collected as repayment. The ful1 appraisal targets for distribution would have been reached, and
perhaps exceeded, if distributions had not been suspended for more than a year in order allow an
assessment of the most suitable season for delivering cattle to the prospective recipients as per the
recommendations of the Bank. The project also constructed 4 holding/quarantine stations (1 in NTB
and 3 in NTT) and 14 DLS livestock extension offices (6 in NTB and 8 in NTT). Cattle distribution for
fattening (appraisal target 6,000) was not done, except for a pilot distribution of 500 heads during the
latter years of the project, because prospective recipients did not consider the activity to be profitable.
The project also trained and equipped 41 SATGAS teams (field implementation units) to support the
distribution of cattle to project beneficiaries, which was a key factor in ensuring proper husbandry of
the animals although most of them had no prior experience in owning and/or tending cattle.
22.          Some 142 kms of provincial roads (SAR target 190 kms) were constructed on the
island of Flores"1 and another 59 kms of rural roads under the LAD program. Three district road
maintenance workshops were constructed and equipped, and a feasibility study for a proposed
provincial road on the north coast of Flores was initiated.
23.          The wide spectrum of activities undertaken by the provincial component, while
supporting decentralized planning and implementation of development initiatives at the lowest
administrative levels (districts/sub-districts), has also raised questions on the economic viability and
sustainability of some of the interventions. Although an organizational mechanism for assessing and
selecting interventions was established at the local level, it did not always succeed in effectively
l l   The remaining 48 kms were not constructed because of contractual disputes/delays.



- 9 -
screening the obviously non-viable ones. The overall development impact and sustainability of this
component would have been enhanced if program development had applied a more rigorous criteria to
define priority rankings for interventions.
Institutional Objectives
24.          Implementation arrangements for  NTASP were designed to operate within the
structure and functions of existing government institutions, rather than through new project-specific
institutions. However, a very limited number of new organizations to augment the activities of
existing institutions were also created. These included the establishment of the Farming Systems
Research Main Base and Sub-Bases, the Field Implementation Units for cattle distribution (SATGAS),
and the Animal Health Units.  The establishment and operation of all of these three "new"
organizational units, however, had a positive impact on project implementation, and helped in the
deepening of the institutional base for long term agricultural development in the two provinces. The
project also made commendable efforts in using the local NGOs for the delivery of a wide range of
services to the project area smallholders. A total of 84 NGOs were involved at different times of
project implementation in providing farmer training, constructing small physical facilities (such as
community crop storage and drying yards, workshops, small irrigation systems, etc.), distributing
goats, pigs, poultry, farm inputs, and cattle, as well as for establishing a few demonstration sites for
new farm enterprises (integrated aquaculture-poultry-horticulture farms). Mechanisms for annual
evaluation and screening of NGOs seeking project assistance were also introduced.
25.          The project made important contributions towards achieving the objective of
strengthening of local level institutions and improving multi-sectoral planning at the provincial and
district levels. It followed two approaches to ensure decentralized project planning and implementation.
First, the nationally implemented components were also implemented in close collaboration with the
provincial and district level agencies, and secondly, line agencies at the local levels were given the
flexibility to plan and implement activities in order to better reflect the perceived developmental needs
of the respective population/areas. This overall strategy worked well and resulted in noticeable
improvements in the capabilities of the local level institutions in programming, implementing, reporting
and monitoring of project activities.
26.          While the project made good strides in bringing together different Dinases at the local
level through the coordinating roles of the district and provincial planning agencies (Bappeda TK I and
TK II), inter-agency coordination nonetheless was unsatisfactory, particularly during the early years of
implementation, although showing signs of improvements in the final years. Implementation of the
sectoral components by the local Dinases also faced some problems of coordination, in addition to the
problem of matching technical capabilities of line agencies at the national and local levels (see Project
Impact).  Nonetheless, the project made important contributions in forging a framework for
intersectoral coordination at the provincial and local levels, as well as for monitoring and evaluation of
decentralized development activities by the.national agencies such as the BANGDA, AARD and the
relevant Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture. The project effectively used the FSR program as



- 10-
an instrument for fostering research-extension linkages in technology development and diffusion, which
yielded some encouraging results in the later years of implementation.
27.          Decentralized decision making and flexibility in program  development under the
provincial components, however, appears to have been taken to extreme lengths, particularly under the
two pilot IAD interventions. There were a total of some 18 different activities that were supported
under the project. During the initial years of implementation, formulation of annual programs did not
adequately reflect clear objectives, a consistent rationale, and rigorous prioritizing of activities as well
as any serious concern for effective beneficiary participation and development impact. The situation,
however, improved during the latter years because of persistent demands by successive supervision
missions, and as the local institutions gained experience in the planning and monitoring of development
initiatives.
28.          Of a total estimated 1,240 person months of national and expatriate technical
assistance, the project successfully provided nearly 1,010 person months of specialist services in a wide
variety of areas. Technical specialists were provided for (a) farming systems research, cotton
development, cattle development and a number of activities under the agricultural support services
components; (b) preparation of regional development strategies for Irian Jaya, South-east Sulawesi
and the Eastem islands; (c) feasibility study for a proposed livestock based area development project in
the Tambora peninsula; (d) project (NTASP) impact evaluation; and (e) preparation of investment
projects for Irian Jaya, South-east and Central Sulawesi and the proposed follow-up project for the
NTASP. The specialist services were rendered in a timely fashion and were fully supported by the
borrower. Short-term consultancies however were concentrated over a relatively short time period and
are reported to have taxed the capacity of the counterpart agencies to fully assimilate their
recommendations. A large number of reports were prepared, but only a few were in Bahasa
Indonesian and thus limited their usefulness.
29.          Project objectives for human resource development and institutional strengthening
were supported through the provision of training both for govermnent staff and farmers - a total of
nearly 3,700 in 111 training courses of varying lengths. However, it appears that the project's training
program was not sufficiently gender-sensitive and focused on providing special training for women in
order to mainstream them in the development activities. Technical assistance for the Provincial
Bappedas were discontinued after the first three years, following which these entities successfully
carried on with the tasks of program co-ordination and monitoring previously undertaken by technical
assistance staff. This perhaps could be taken is an indication of the success of this particular TA in
promoting skills formation in their counterparts.



- 11 -
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
30.          NTASP was prepared under the FAO-World Bank Cooperative Programme in 1984
and appraised by the Bank in March 1985. The project became effective in April 1986 and was to be
implemented over a period of six years. It was, however, not until about six months after the date of
effectiveness that the required Decrees of the national and provincial authorities setting up the project
organization had been issued, key managerial and technical staff had been in place and the budgets had
been released. Despite this initial delay, project implementation proceeded well, and actual
implementation exceeded appraisal targets significantly during the first four years of project
implementation. Project disbursements, however, slowed down during the latter part of the project
period as most of the lumpy expenditures (TA, civil works, cattle distribution) had already been
incurred. Delays in the release of funds for various institutional and programs reasons, was a persistent
constraint to timely project implementation, and particularly affected the quality of agricultural
development activities and slowed the dissemination of the FSR technologies.
31.          The nature of the project components involving the formulation of both technical and
organizational approaches for rural development and encompassing a wide range of activities, required,
quite justifiably, more time than was envisaged at appraisal. The two one-year extensions of the Bank
loan (and also the AIDAB and UNDP grants) enabled the consolidation and application of the physical,
technical and organizational achievements and capitalize on the momentum generated into effective
program development.
32.          An important implementation approach was to continuously evaluate all project
activities, particularly those under the provincial components, for their respective viability, expected
development impact and relevance to farmer needs. As a direct result of such evaluations,
implementation of the cotton development component was essentially stopped when it was detemiined
that the difficult environmental conditions of the region and the available crop production technology
were significant constraints to improving smallholder cotton yields and, therefore, the relatively
profitability of its production12. Similarly, except for a small pilot undertaken during the final years of
the project, no distributions had been made for cattle fattening in view of questionable financial viability
of the activity, and the distribution of heifers for breeding was temporarily suspended to allow a
determination of altematives to distribution during the wet season. There are many other instances
where activities with doubtful viability (priority) had been dropped from the annual program and
support for the promising ones reinforced. This approach to annual work programming not only
provided the local level agencies an opportunity to learn the art of establishing priorities and weeding
out the unworthy ones, but it also improved the development impact and sustainabilty of project
interventions.
12    The Government Estates Crops Enterprise responsible for promoting cotton production (PTP XXVI) had
differed with the Bank's reconunendation.



- 12 -
33.          The involvement of a financial intermediary, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), in what
was essentially an in-kind cattle credit system was found to be unnecessary and cumbersome. The
BRI was not involved in the financing of cattle purchase, their procurement, distribution,
collection of offsprings as repayment, nor GOI funds for the component were channeled through
it. Yet all cattle recipients were recorded as debtors with the BRI, and all costs related to the
provision of the animals were debited against them in monetary terms. Most documentation of
this so-called 'BRI credit' was done by the technical staff of the DGLS (SATGAS); as BRI
neither had the staff nor the interest in getting involved in the credit operation. The involvement
of the BRI was designed to institutionalize the cattle credit operation of the project in a financial
intermediary. The practical difficulties of converting the liabilities of an in-kind credit operation
into a monetized portfolio of financial intermediaries, as attempted under the project, are many
and should have been recognized during project design. A more pragmatic approach in future
would be to provide such in-kind smallholder credit as an integral part of the services provided by
the relevant government agencies, preferably using NGOs and/or beneficiary groups as the
delivery mechanism.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.          Sustainability of the development initiatives and outcome of the project will require
continued support from the national and provincial budgets for maintaining and further upgrading the
agricultural support services and the socio-economic infrastructure fostered under the project. Given
the government's poor record in providing sufficient funds for operation and maintenance expenses,
this remains a potential threat to the sustainabilty of the project. However, government's demonstrated
support for the project, and its comnitment for poverty alleviation and accelerated development of the
eastern region, give reasons to believe that reasonable levels of funding will be maintained during the
operational phase of the project. The fact that the Government did provide sufficient funds for the
continuation of project activities during the remaining period of the terminal year of the project (fiscal
year 1994-95) despite the Bank loan having closed on October 31, 1994, supports the above
conclusion. The Government is also actively pursuing the preparation of a follow-on project, which
will further consolidate and enhance sustainability of some of the NTASP-induced development
initiatives.
35.          The operational activities that will need to be financed by the Government include:
(a) for the FSR component - staff costs, building maintenance and operational expenditures including
the cost of material, equipments, inputs and transport; (b) for the livestock component - salaries, wages
and operating costs for continuing the activities of the SATGAS teams for providing animal husbandry
extension, and collection and redistribution of animals returned as credit repayments; (c) for the roads
component - routine maintenance costs; and (d) for the provincial component - honorariums and
incentive paymnents to staff, office supplies, utilities, meetings and reporting costs and allowances,
including the costs of monitoring and evaluation by Bappeda.



- 13 -
36.          Traditionally, over 90 percent of development funds for the provinces have been
provided by the national budget. It is unlikely that the two provinces of NTT and NTB will have the
resources of their own to finance substantially the above costs of post-project operation and
maintenance. Therefore, these financing needs will have to met out of national transfers to the
Provincial and District budgets (APDBI and APDBHI) as well as through the allocation of the various
INPRES funds. The financial needs for the continuation/expansion of the FSR activities has to be seen
from a long-term perspective and specific allocations will need to be made not only to continue the
beginnings achieved but also to develop a wider basis for agricultural research and development in the
region. Financing of these requirements is likely to be provided in the context of the Government's
plans for siting one of the proposed regional Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology in the
Main FSR base at Kupang.
37.          The project has put in place a working mechanism for the collection and redistribution
of offsprings from cattle and small ruminants provided to farmers under the revolving in-kind credit
system. As mentioned earlier, collection and redistribution/disposal of credit-cattle has already started
and institutional arrangements are in place to continue the activities. Repayments have been lower than
expected largely because of low calving rates, and some instances of the farmers being reluctant to
return the first progeny. It now estimated that the all cattle credit will be repaid by year 2000 for
distributions in NTB, and by year 2002 for distributions in NTT. The Directorate General of Livestock
has already decentralized collection and redistribution responsibilities at the local level. Given the
demand from the farmer to participate in the program, it is expected that the activities will be sustained
alongside the associated income generation.
38.          Sustainability of the farming system  development program, however, could be
threatened unless the technology packages were further streamlined to achieve possible cost
reductions, viable arrangements for short-term financing of input costs were made, and the institutional
and infrastructural constraints to input supply and produce marketing had been addressed. Given the
high degree of beneficiary support for the village irrigation schemes, and the relatively low
construction/maintenance costs, these initiatives are likely to be sustainable provided the respective
local government agencies continue to provide the necessary technical back-up as well some sharing of
civil works costs.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.          Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was satisfactory - particularly in the
orientation of its support for decentralized decision making. Notwithstanding this, it appears that
stricter prioritization and analytical rigor at appraisal would have demonstrated the technical and
economic non-viability of the cotton development and cattle fattening components, as well as of the
doubtful rationale for the two pilot LADPs in Lembor and Lombok Tengah districts. The project
benefited from a high degree of supervision and monitoring and timely identification and resolution of
implementation constraints by Bank staff. During the extended implementation period of eight years, a
total of 16 supervision missions visited the project. Project supervisions were well-organized,



- 14 -
systematic and consistent, recommending a number of evaluations on specific activities before deciding
to curtail or strengthen them. Mission aide-memoires brought out the key implementation and
development impact issues succinctly, and provided clear recommendations for follow-up actions. An
exhaustive mid-term review was held at an appropriate time. Its findings were well documented and
useful in making mid-course corrections and in further improving and rationalizing project
implementation.. While substantial flexibilities to the implementing agencies were given to the
implementing agencies to travel on uncharted courses, the Bank was nonetheless appropriately firm in
ensuring retraction from fruitless pursuits. Greater attention to the technical aspects of implementation
during routine supervisions, however, would have revealed, early in the project period, the non-
sustainabiity of a number of interventions, as well as helped in improving the technical aspects of
implementation for others.
40.          Relationships between the Bank and the Government, both at the Centre and in the
Provinces and the Kabupatens were very cordial, yet effective, throughout the project implementation
period, as was the Bank's relationship with the other two major co-financiers, AIDAB and UNDP.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.          At all levels of the Government - national, provincial, district and sub-district -
commitment to the project and measures undertaken for its effective implementation has been
impressive. The project was adequately funded through the national budgetary allocations, although
pace and quality of implementation sometimes suffered due to delayed release of budgeted funds. But
this problem was not peculiar to NTASP as all development projects in Indonesia experience this. The
Government also was in compliance with the all the covenants of the credit agreement, except for the
ones requiring them to provide sufficient numbers of motorcycles and other vehicles, and for adequate
maintenance of roads improved or constructed under the project. Implementing agencies were, by and
large, responsive to supervision missions' recommendations, even when they involved difficult choices
such as discontinuing certain activities, and have endeavoured to take remedial measures in a timely
fashion. It is particularly noted that senior officials from BANGDA, BAPPENAS, AARD, DGLS and
the Ministry of Agriculture were regular participants in Bank supervision missions, as were the senior
officials from the BAPPEDAS and the Dinases, and actively contributed to the missions' activities.
However, while a large number of studies in various activities and disciplines were undertaken by the
project, efforts on the part of the Government to translate the recommendations into appropriate
policies and actions were lacking and therefore, potential benefits from the studies were not realized.
Part of the problem arose from the documents having been written in English.



- 15 -
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
42.          As the first phase of a long-term  agricultural development program in two of
Indonesia's poorest provinces, many aspects of the project were experimental and pilot in nature. Some
activities were wrongly conceived and/or implemented, and in some instances the expected synergy of
a multisectoral intervention was not achieved. On the whole, however, most project activities were
focused on the commonly identified development priorities in the project areas, and the project
outcome overall has been satisfactory on several counts and has laid the foundations for future
development. First, the establishment of the physical infrastructure, institutions, and programs for
farming system research, and identification of a number of promising agricultural production
technologies, have created the building blocks for improving agricultural production and farm income
on a sustainable basis. This is a very significant outcome given that the two provinces had no
institutions, programs and/or a technological base for addressing the problems of agricultural
development under conditions of poor and diverse natural resource endowment and harsh agro-
ecological environment. However, research has to focus more on improving the socio-economic
viability of the identified technologies, as well as their relevance to the different agro-ecosystems of the
two provinces. Secondly, the project has strengthened local level institutions in multi-sectoral planning
and implementation of development programs, as well as the capabilities of Bangda and the
provincial/district Bappedas for overseeing, monitoring and evaluating such decentralized development
initiatives. These improvements furthered the Government's objective of decentralized development
administration.  Thirdly, approximately 2,500 technical and administrative staff, mostly at the
provincial and district levels, and over 5,200 farmers received training of various kinds under the
project. This has substantially improved the human resource base, created a pool of expertise as well
as fostered awareness and motivation among line agencies at the provincial and district levels.
Fourthly, the project has strengthened the in-kind revolving credit system for distributing livestock to
smailholders and demonstrated the feasibility of the system as an altemative to institutional financing of
smailholder credit for certain activities. During the later years of the project the system was also
extended, albeit on an experimental and small scale, to the provision of smallholder farm inputs. Lastly,
the use of a large number of NGOs for the delivery of some of the agricultural support services has
improved the working linkages between the NGOs and public sector agencies in the project areas and
provided useful lessons on the operational issues relevant to the effective use of NGOs for the
provision of public goods and services.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43.          The Bank is processing a  follow-on project covering both the NTT and NTB
provinces, which should support the consolidation, improvement and broader application of the
physical, technical and institutional achievements of NTASP, and thereby enhance its sustainability and
development impact. The proposed follow-on operation is expected to focus on: (a) further



- 16 -
strengthening of the process of decentralized planning and implementation at the district and sub-
district levels; (b) improving the technical parameters, relevance and flexibility of farming systems
development technologies, making them consistent with the agro-ecological diversities of the two
provinces, socio-economically sustainable, and better integrated with cattle, small ruminants and
available water resources; (c) improving the agro-economic database for better focused farming
systems research in the two provinces; (d) improving the scope and quality of agricultural support
services by fully operationalizing the available physical facilities and resources for the delivery of such
services; (e) further consolidating the operations of the in-kind revolving credit systems for the
distribution of livestock, and applying the concept to providing other physical inputs to smalUholders;
and lastly (f) improving the framework for effective and broad-based beneficiary participation as well as
for incorporating greater gender sensitivities in the planning and implementation of development
initiatives under the project.
L KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.           Project Design. As the first phase of a long-term program to develop technical and
organizational modalities for the development of an agro-ecologically diverse and resource poor area,
and constrained by poor technological, institutional and infrastructural basis for economic
development, the project design adopted a variety of approaches which resulted in a multitude of
interventions, involvement of a large number of public sector agencies and a seemingly complex
organization and management structure. Potentially serious implementation problems were, however,
minimized because project organization and implementation arrangements (a) clearly defined the
administrative and technical linkages with the central agencies in respect of the sectorally implemented
components, (b) gave central role to the provincial and district Bappedas in the planning, co-ordination
and oversight of local level programs, while implementation responsibilities were fully decentralized at
the Dinases/sub-Dinases, and most importantly, (c) did not provide for a central project management
unit, typical of many multisectoral projects. An important feature of the project design, which is
expected to help in sustaining the implementation arrangements, was that the project organization was
built essentially within the existing national, provincial and district level structures.
45.           The pace and quality of implementation was lacking during the initial years, but once
the project organization took roots and became operational, it worked satisfactorily and resulted in the
satisfactory achievement of the financial, physical and development objectives of the project. However,
a more substantial role of the provincial Kanwil of the Ministry of Agriculture in providing technical
back-up would have improved the quality of implementation of the agricultural components."3 While
these decentralized implementation arrangements helped in satisfactory physical implementation of the
overall project, as well as provided opportunities for 'learning by doing' to a large number of local
level agencies and staff, the wide range of activities under the provincial component strained the
'3    Following the mid-term review, efforts were made to mainstream the provincial Kanwil for Agriculture in
the implementation of the agricultural components and improve the technical back-up from the relevant
national agencies in the implementation of the other components.



- 17 -
limited capabilities of the local level institutions and affected the quality of implementation and their
development impact.
46.          Block financial allocations appeared attractive due to their flexibility and being demand-
responsive, but they also promoted too many loosely hanging activities without proper management
and technical back-up, and often with doubtful viability. While maintaining flexibility in funding and
implementation arrangements will be important for ensuring participatory and sustainable development,
the critical need to establish criteria or parameters for the selection of project activities on the basis of
realistic assessment of priorities can not be over emphasized.
47.          Since in the foreseeable future agriculture will remain the engine of growth and the
major source of broad-based income and employment generation in the two provinces, NTT and
NTB, as well for most of the eastern region, development initiatives will need to focus relatively more
on agricultural production and income generating components, limiting investments on social and
physical infrastructure to activities that are critical for supporting the former. Given the substantial
degradation of the agro-ecological conditions in the two provinces, particularly in the dry uplands,
sustainable natural resource management, based on whole and/or micro-watersheds, is likely to be an
over-arching priority in agricultural development programs in the area.
48.          Beneficiary Participation. Project impact has not been commensurate with the level
of physical achievement partly because of inadequate attention given to beneficiary involvement. Apart
from activities (such as village inigation, livestock distribution and some components in the pilot IAD
areas) which have resulted in direct retums to the farmers, many of the other activities were planned
and implemented under a 'directive' approach including provision of materials and equipment on a
grant basis Qand conservation, estate crops). These latter activities have had limited success and may
not be sustainable. Beneficiary involvement is required not only at the planning and design phase of the
interventions but also during implementation. In order to ensure this, preparation of a comprehensive
social assessment and participation strategy should be undertaken early in the project cycle.
49.          Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project benefited from a high degree
of supervision and monitoring. The project has distinguished itself by the large number of studies
undertaken in various disciplines, although it appeared that more effective follow-up action on the part
of the Government to translate the recommendations into policy was needed to fully benefit from the
studies. Project supervision has been systematic and consistent, recommending a number of evaluations
on specific activities before deciding to curtail or strengthen them. Greater attention to the technical
aspects of implementation however, would have revealed, early in the project period, the non-
sustainability of a number of interventions under the project and the need for balance between directly
productive activities and activities in support of social infrastructure.



- 18-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                      1              9          L             27
Sector policies                     El                        El            El
Financial objectives                E            El            El 
Institutional development           [I1          El           ED            LI
Physical objectives                              El            El           Fl
Poverty reduction                   El                         El           E 
Gender issues                       El          E[]                         El
Other social objectives             El           I]            I]           El 
Environmental objectives            El                         E E1         E l2
Public sector management                         El            El           El
Private sector development                       El           El            El
Other (specify)                      n           El            El           El
B. Proiect sustainabilitv            Likely       Unlikelv    Uncertain
Hihly
C. Bank performance                satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Identification                    L           Ev          [L
Preparation assistance           El                         E 
Appraisal                        El                         El1
Supervision                      El                         El



- 19-
Highly
D. Borrower performance                        satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
Preparation                                   I I       17                  L
Implementation                            Li             EC                11
Covenant compliance                       Li               Eii            [Ii
Operation (if applicable)                  Ci            FII Ci
Highly                                                 Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                   satisfactory    Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
I~~
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                      Year of approval                    Status
Preceding operations
1. National Agricultural        Support for Agriculture Research             1989                           Ongoing
Research Management Project I
2. Provincial Irrigated         Support for Irigation                        1991                           Ongoing
Agricultural Development        Development
Project
3. Smallholder Cattle           Distribution of Cattle to                    1979                          Completed
Development Project             Smallholders
4. Kabupaten Roads III          Programme of roads rehabilitation            1992                           Ongoing
Project                         in the districts
5. Eastem Indonesia             Programme of roads rehabilitation            1993                           Ongoing
Kabupaten Roads                 in the districts
6. National Agricultural        Strengthen extension services for            1986                          Completed
Extension III Project           crops, livestock & fisheries.
7. Yogyakarta Upland Area       Improve rural living conditions in           1979                          Completed
Development Project             2 districts of Yogyakarta
8. Yogyakarta Upland Area       Improve incomes & living                     1991                           Ongoing
Development Project             standards through agricultural
development
9. Upland Agriculture and       Increase farmers' production and             1984                          Completed
Conservation Project            incomes through conservation
farming
Follow- on operations
1. NTT/NTB Regional             Increase production and incomes                                         Under preparation
Agricultural Development        through decentralised support
Project
2. Central and South Sulawesi   Increase production and incomes                                         Under preparation
Regional Agricultural           through decentralised support
Development Project



- 20 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned             Date actual/
l                             latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               n.a.                  Nov-1983
Preparation                                              n.a.                  Jan-1985
Appraisal                                             Mar-1985                 Mar-1985
Negotiations                                             n.a.                  Sept-1985
Letter of development policy (if applicable)             n.a.                    n.a.
Board presentation                                       n.a.                 03-Dec-1985
Signing                                                  n.a.                 19-Dec-1985
Effectiveness                                         Mar-1986                23-Apr-1986
First tranche release (if applicable)                    n.a.                    n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)                         mid-1989               23-Jan-1989
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)       n.a.                    n.a.
Project completion                                     Apr-1992              October 1994
Loan closing                                           Oct-1992               31-Oct-1994
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY86     FY87      FY88      FY89       FY90        FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94    FY95
Appraisal      0.3       1.3       4.0       9.0       15.0       23.0        30.0      33.0
estimate
Actual         0.0       3.9       9.8      14.8       16.3       17.8        19.8      23.7      26.5    30.0
Actual as %     0        300      245        161       109         77         66         72        80      91
of estimate
Date of final expenditure: October 31, 1994; Date of final disbursement: March 14, 1995



-21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Actual
1.   Key implementation indicators in SAR/ President's Report      unit       Estimated             _______
NTT       NTB       Total
I.     Farming System Research'FSR                                                 __=
(a) Establish main base                                              Unit             1         I          -
(b) Establish sub-base                                               Unit             2         1         1         2
(c) Upgrading Coton Res. Center in East Java                         Unit             2                             2
(d) T.A. - Foreign                                                   M/mtm           80                           n a.
- Local                                                         m/m             60                           rLa.
II.    Cotton Development
(a) Establish cotton dev. unit                                                        2         1         1         2
(b) Establish dem area                                               Unit            16                            16
(c) T.A. - Foreign                                                  m/m              45                           nLa.
- Local                                                         mtm             72                           n.a.
Ill.    Canle Development
(a) Breeding cattle distrib.                                        heads        22,500    13,243     7,500    20,743
(b) Fattenitig cattle distrib.                                     heads          6,000       500                 500
(c) Constnmc. & rehab. 11G.                                          unit             4         3         1         4
(d) Establish SATGAS                                                 unit            48        27        14        41
(e) Training                                                       person .                                       483
(f) T.A. - Foreign                                                  m/m              61                           n.a.
- Local                                                         m/m             60                            62
IV.    Road Improvement
(a) Improve nat./prov. road                                           km            190       152                 152
(b) Establish workshop                                               unit             3         3                   3
(c) Conduct study                                                                     I         I                    I
V.     Agric. Support Services (ASSP)
1. Foodcrop Services
(a) Construc. PPL houses                                             unit           300       300                 300
(b) Rehab. BBUiBBP                                                   unit           n.s.       10        10        20
- Office construct./rehab                                          unit           n.s.                 15        15
(c) Foodcrop demplots                                                unit           na.        81       115       196
(d) Fooderop dem-area                                                 ha            n.s.      745       681      1,426
(e) Plan Protection Brigade                                          unit           n.s.                  2         2



- 22 -
(f) Village irrigation                                                     No.             n.s.      _           141         142
(g) Training - for farmers                                               person             n.s.    1,465        618       2,083
- for staff                                                      person             n.s.       831         40        871
2. Livestock Services
(a) Poskeswan & houses                                                     unit             n.s.       21         22          43
(b) Type C lab.                                                            unit             n.s.         4          1          5
(c) Forage demplots                                                        unit             n.s.      125         30         155
(d) Slaughter house/RPH                                                    unit             n.s.        4           7         11
(e) Goat distribution                                                      head             n.s.               6,375       6,375
(f) Training - Farmers                                                   person             n.s.                1,110      1,110
-staff                                                           person             n.s.
3. Estate Crop Services
(a) Seedling distrib.                                                        ha             n.s.     1,380     2,822       4,202
(b) Cocoa seed center                                                      unit             n.s.         2                     2
(c) Office rehab./construct.                                               unit             n.s.                    5          5
(d) Training for farmer                                                  person             n.s.                 840        840
4. Fishery Services
(a) Dempond                                                                unit             n.s.                   14         14
(b) Fishing gear                                                           unit             n.s.                   11         11
(c) Hatchery dev.                                                          unit             n.s.                    8          8
(d) Tambak devel.                                                            ha             n.s.                 240        240
<   (e) Training - Farmers                                               person             n.s.                 674        674
5. Integrated Farmming System                                                ha             n.s.     1,675      1,655      3,330
(adoption of FSR technology)
7. Support to NGO
(a) NGO supported                                                          unit             n.s.         7        77          84
(b) Beneficiary assisted                                                   unit             n.s.    2,487       9,792    12,279
(c) Farmer group assisted                                                  unit             n.s.       38                     38
(d) Goat distribution                                                      head             n.s.     1,087      5,405      6,492
(e) Duck distribution                                                      head             n.s.                8,660      8,660
(f) Cattle distribution                                                    head             n.s.      205                   205
(g) Pig distribution                                                       head             n.s.      224                   224
(f) Farm inputs                                                            unit             n.s.       38          16         54



- 23 -
VI.    Integrated Area Development
. Lembor/Manggarai IADP
(a) Land certification                                                          pc             n.s.     3,125                  3,125
(b) Office building/school                                                    unit             n.s.         7                      7
(c) Resettlement houses                                                       unit             n.s.       624                    624
(d) Drinking water system                                                                      n.s.          1                      1
(e) Village road                                                               km              n.s.        58                     58
(f) Fish hatchery                                                             unit             n.s.          I
(g) Social forestry                                                             ha             n.s.       929                    929
(h) Training - Farmers                                                     person              n.s.       526                    526
2. Lombok Tengah IADP
(a) Seed multiplication                                                        ha             n.s.                    49          49
(b) Foodcrop Dem-area                                                          ha             n.s.                   124         124
(c) Rural Irrigation                                                         unit              n.s.                   1=          11
(d) Coconut seedling distrib.                                                  ha             n.s.                 1,121       1,121
(e) Home garden dev.                                                         unit             n.s.                 4,761      4,761
(f) Tambak demo.                                                             unit             n.s.                      1          1
(g) Goat distribution                                                        head             na.a.                2,504      2,504
(h) Forage demplots                                                          unit             n.s.                     4           4
(i) Poskeswan/Lab.                                                           unit             n.s.                     3           3
(j) Slaughter house                                                          unit             n.s.                      I          1
(k) Land mapping & titling                                                     ha           1,200                    792        792
(I) Social forestry                                                            ha             n.s.                 1,176       1,176
(m) Class romm/lab.                                                          unit             n.s.                     4           4
(n) Rural road                                                                km              n.s.                    5.5        5.5
(o) Office building                                                          unit             n.s.                     4           4
n.s.   not specified.



-24 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L  Key Implementation Indicators in SAR               Targets                  Actual
1. Cattle Development
(21,622 cattle/20,499 households)
- Calving rates                                        78%                    51.8%
- Calf mortality rate                                  5%                      9.5%
- Adult mortality                                      2%                      1.7%
- Previous farmers ownership of cattle                                    Less than 20%
- Farner training with SATGAS                                           100% of participants
2. Land Conservation
(875 ha/1,900 households)
- Farmer receipt of inputs                             n.s.                    100%
- Farmer knowledge of land conservation practices      n.s.                    fair
- Survival rate of plantings                           n.s.                 30% to 67%
- Maintenance practices                                n.s.                    poor
3. Seed Multiplication
(19 BBU's/462 Seed Growers)                                                                       l
- Seed grower receipt of inputs                        n.s.                    100%
- Target group use of HYV seed                         n.s.                    75%
- Target group use of HYV seed from project            n.s.                    35%
4. Village Irrigation
(98 schemes/I 1,407 ha/17,219 households)
- Receipt of inputs                                    n.s.                    100%
- Farmer participants                                  n.s.             Broad participations
- Command area                                         n.s.          47% increase (rainy season)
- Cropping intensity                                   n.s.        Paddy - Paddy - Palawija (60%)
l _______________________________________                                Paddy  - Palawija  (40% )



-25 -
5. Estate Crops
(3,644,000 seedlings/21,500 recipients)
- Receipt of inputs                                        n.s.                     100%
- Survival rate of plantings                               n.s.                   300/O0%
- Maintenance practices                                    n.s.                     poor
- Output of tree crops                                     n.s.                      low
7 . IAD Lembor
(3,500 households)
- Farmer receipt of inputs                                 n.s.                     100%
- Increases of paddy yields                                n. s.                  + 1.3 tons
- Survival of treesplantings                               n.s.                      fair
- Cultivation practices                                    n.s.                      fair
8 . NAD Lombok Tengah
(7,500 households)
- Farmer receipt of inputs                                 n.s.                     100%
- Survival of plantings                                    n.s.                     poor
- Increases in yields                                      n.s.               Paddy: 1.1 tons/ha
- Cultivation practices                                    n.s.               Tree Crops (poor)
8. NGO  Activities
(5,360 households)
- Farmer receipt of inputs                                 n.s.                     100%
- Survival of goats/cattle                                 n.s.                     good
l - Functioning revolving system                             n.s.                     100%
l9. Livestock Support Service
(37 animal heaIth clinics/18,500 households)
- Average number of households receiving services          n.s.           500 households/Clinic/Year
- Average number of livestock treated                      n.s.
n.s. = not specified.



- 26 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                        at appraisal            Status           Impact of study
1. Baseline Socio-economic Surveys on                                 Completed       Used in project
IAD locations in Lombok Tengah                                                      implementation.
and Lembor
12. I-ian Jaya Regional Development                                    Completed       Used as input in
Study - including a Blue Book of                                                    provincial and
project proposals                                                                   Kabupaten Planning
for Repelita V.
3. Irian Jaya Provincial Development                                  Completed       Not yet proposed for
Fund Project                                                                        funding by donors.
l4. Southeast Sulawasi Integrated                                      Completed       World Bank has
Area Development Project Report                                                     expressed interest for
funding project.
!5. A large number of research papers and studies have been completed by the project. These include:
- Food Legume Crops Research, R. Troedson, December 1987.
- Agroclimatic Assessment for Farming System Research, E. Fitzpatrick, February 1988.
- SorghumlMilletlCassava Research, Food Crops Legume Research, G. Wilson, May 1988.
- Forage Research Component of Farming Systems Research, R. Gutteridge, March 1988.
- Reproduction in Ruminants in West Timor, C. McCool, July 1988.
- Ruminant Nutrition and Production in West Timor, J. Holmes, September 1988.
- Agroclimatic Assessment for Farming Systems Research in Nusa Tenggara, E. Fitzpatrick and
A. Chapman, November 1988.
- Farming Systems Research Sub-Project, R. Gutteridge, November 1988.
- Soil Suitability and Management for Cotton Production in Lombok and Flores, D. McKenzie,
January 1989.
- Recommendation or Upgrading Climate and Rainfall Recording on Lombok and Flores, G. Keffer &
P. Riajaya, July 1989.
- Climate Constraints to Cotton Production on Lombok & Flores, G. Keffer & P. Riajaya, July 1989.
- Weed Control in Rain Grown Cotton in Nusa Tenggara, V. Pope, April 1989.
- Cotton Utilisation Study, 1. Teese & R. Redmore, August 1989.
Tambora and North Lombok Reports:
- Tambora Resources Study for Integrated Development, W.C. Gerrish et al, October 1987.
- North Lombok Resources Study for Integrated Development, Phase I, W.C. Gerrish et al,
October 1988.
- Project Identification for North Lombok - DRAFT, W.C. Gerrish et al, November 1988.
- Project Identification for Tambora - DRAFT, W.C. Gerrish et al, November 1988.
- Study for Integrated Area Development Project Preparation for North Lombok and Project
Preparation for Tambora, W.C. Gerrish et al, January 1989.
- Project Identification for Tambora: Phase 11 Tanbora Resources Study for Integrated Development,
W.C. Gerrish et al, January 1989.
- Project Identification for North Lombok: Phase II North Lombok Study for Integrated Development,
W.C. Gerrish et al, May 1989.
Progress Reports:
- Quarterly Progress Report (xl 9), October, November, December 1986 - May, June, July 1991.
- AIDAB/NTASP Technical Assistance Program, Mid-Term Report, June 1988.
- Final Report on Completion of the AIDAB/NTASP Technical Assistance Progran, September 30, 1991.



- 27 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)        Act4allLatest Estimate (USS million)
Item                  _                                                                                  l
Local       Foreign         Total         Local        Foreign        Total
Costs        Costs                        Costs         Costs
A. Farming Systems Research              3.3           2.6           7.1           3.8           3.0           6.8
B. Cotton Development                    1.1           0.5           2.3           0.4           0.2           0.6
C. Cattle Development                    7.8           1.3           11.0          5.9           1.0           6.9
D. Roads Improvement                     5.1           7.8          15.6           3.8           5.7           9.5
E. Agricultural Support and Area
Development (Provincial)               9.6           2.5           14.6          15.0          3.9           18.9
F. Regional Investment Studies and
Implementation Support                 2.5           4.4           8.4            4.1          7.2           11.3 2'
TOTAL                                  36.2          22.8          59.0           33.0         21.0          54.0
Includes contingencies.
2' Includes UNDP & AIDAB funds for technical assistance and studies.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (USSM)                   Actual/latest estimate (USSM)
Local        Foreign         Total            Local            Foreign       Total
costs         costs                           costs            costs
IBRD/IDA                                16.9           16.1          33.0              16.1             15.4          30.0
AIDAB                                                  2.8            2.8              1.7              2.2           3.9
UNDP                                     0.9           2.5            3.4              1.2              3.4           4.6
ADB                                                    0.6            0.6               -                -             -
(GOI                                    18.4           0.8           19.2              15.0              0.6          15.6
TOTAL                                  36.2          22.8           59.0             32.5              21.0          54.0eJ
' Does not add up due to rounding.



- 28 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimates                      Actual
Component                                                                                              l
ERR              Direct             ERR              Direct
(%)           Beneficiaries         (%)          Beneficiaries
Farming Systems and Cotton Research                        n.q.              n.q.               n.q.              n.q.
Cotton Development                                         n.q.              n.q.               n.q.              n.q.
Cattle Development                                          18              45,000             8 - 12           20,499
Roads Improvement                                           24               n.q.                12               n.q.
Provincial Development:                                    n.q.             45,000                              78,422
- Land Conservation                                                    (not specified by                       (1,900)
type of activity)
- Seed Multiplication                                     n.q.              n.q.               n.q.             (462)
- Village Irrigation                                      n.q.              n.q.               n.q.            (17,700)
- Livestock Support Services                              n.q.              n.q.               n.q.           (18,500)
- Estate Crops                                            n.q.              n.q.               n.q.            (21,000)
- Integrated Area Development:                            n.q.              n.q.               n.q.
(a) Lembor                                               n.q.              n.q.               n.q.            (3,500)
(b) Lombok Tengah                                        n.q.              n.q.               n.q.            (7,500)
- NGO Activities                                          n.q.              n.q.               n.q.            (5,360)
- StafSFarmer Training                                    n.q.              n.q                n.q.            (1,500)
Regional Studies and Implerentation Support                n.q.              n.q.               n.q.             1,620
Staff Appraisal Report for NTASP of 1985.
n.q. = not quantified.



- 29 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Indonesia
Nusa Tengara Agricultural Support Project (NTASP)
Agreement      Section    Covenant type    Present       Original         Revised             Description of
status    fulfillment date  fulfillment date        covenantt
SCH 5        Para. 9        Ml              3                          06/14/94    Provision of motorcycles and other
vehicles for project implementation.
3.01 (B)                     Ml              2                          06/14/94    Adequate funds will be provided to
cover incremental project
expenditures.
3.02 (C)      SCH 5           I              2                          06/14/94    Borrower to implement Project as
per agreed program and
organizational arrangements.
3.02        SCH 5          Ml              2                          06/14/94    Goods and Services will be
procured as per agreement in
Schedule 4.
3.03 (A)                     Fl              2                          06/14/94    Execution of fnancing agreement
between borrower and BRI, and
sub-financing agreement between
BRI and DGLs.
5.01                        TI             2                          06/14/94    Construct 60 rural extension centres
and about 40 animal health centres
in NTT and NTB.
5.02                        T2             1                          06/14/94    Roads constructed or improved will
be adequately maintained.
I   =   Unavailable.
2   =        In compliance.
3   =        Partly complied.
4   =        Not in compliance.
5   =        Waived/deleted.
6   =        No longer relevant.
7   =        To be amended.
8            Not yet due.



- 30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          I    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                 Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks         US$         Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        169.9       n.a.
AppraisalBoard             n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        86.4        n.a.
Board-effectiveness        n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.                    n.a.
Supervision                n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.       138.8        n.a.
Completion                 n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.                    n.a.
TOTAL                     n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.                    n.a.



- 31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number                     Specialized         Performance rating
Stage of         Month/        of        Days in        staff skills                                   Types of
project cycle       year       persons       field       represented                                     problems
Implemen-      Develop-
tation         ment
status       objectives
Identification           5/84
Preparation             10/84
Appraisal                3/85         2
Supervision 1            8/86         2            9             C, I              2              1
Supervision 2            5/87         1           to              C                2              -
Supervision 3a          10/87         1            6              C                2              2
Supervision 3b          11/87         2            6             A, IE             2              2
Supervision 4            5/88         1           16             R,E               -              -E
Supervision 5            6/88         3            7            C, A, R            2              3              I
Supervision 6            11/88        3           37            R, E, R            2              3              I
Supervision 7            9/89         1           13              A                2              2
Supervision 8            3/90         2           10             C, I              3              2             I, F
Supervision 9           5-6/90        3            ?             A, IR             ?              .              ?
Supervision 10          11/90         2           10             C,C               2              2             1, F
Supervision 11           6/91         1            ?              A                2              2
Supervision 12          10/91         3           32            C, L, A            2              2
Supervision 13           2/92         1            ?              A                -              -
Supervision 14           7/92         1           27              C                2
Supervision 15          10/92         2           18             C, A              2              1
Supervision 16           2/93         2           31             C, L              ?              ?              ?
Supervision 17           6/93         4           21          C, A, C, C           2              1
Supervision IS           4/94         2           22             C, A              2              1_
Specialized Staff:     A = Agriculture; C = Economist; I = Institutions; IE = Irrigation Engineer; R  Research; E = Extension; IR = Irrigation
Engineer; L = Livestock.
Types of Problens:     I = Institution; F = Funding.






APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
lNDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2638-IND)
MISSIONS AIDE-MEMOIRE
16 October - 4 November 1994
1.         The following represents the provisional conclusions of a mission"  from the FAO
Investment Centre which visited Indonesia from 16 October to 4 November, 1994. Following a review
of project files at the World Bank Office in Jakarta and preliminary discussions with the staff of
BANGDA, AARD and DGLS, the mission visited the project areas in Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB)
and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT) where it reviewed the extent of project implementation and held
discussions with relevant Government implementing agencies and farmers in the project area. At the
end of the mission's stay, a wrap-up meeting was held under the chairmanship of Bangda and
participated by all relevant agencies of the Government where the mission's conclusions were outlined.
This aide-memoire summarises the agreed conclusions of the meeting.
2.         The mission would like to thank and acknowledge the support provided by staff of
BANGDA, AARD, DGLS, the BAPPEDAS (TKI & TKI), and the various Dinases, Bupatis and
Camats of the Kabupatens and Kecamatans visited by the mission.
C. Summary of Findings
Project Implementation
3.         Financial. The project became effective in April 1986 and was to be implemented over a
period of six years; original closing date being October 31, 1992. Project implementation proceeded
well, actual disbursements exceeded appraisal targets significantly during the first four years of project
implementation. Project disbursements however slowed down during the latter part of the project
period as most of the lumpy expenditures (T.A., civil works, cattle distribution) had already been
I. Sobhan, Mission Leader/Economist, J. Newton, Agronomist (Consultant), C. Devendra, Livestock
Specialist (Consultant). The mission was joined for most of the field trip by Messrs. 0. Farruk, Task
Manager, J. Hitchings, Div. Chief (a.i.), and J. Van Voorthuizen, Water Resources Engineer of the World
Bank.



INDONESIA. NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Appendix A: Missions Aide-Memoire
incurred. The nature of the project components involving the formulation of both technical and
organisational approaches for rural development covering a wide range of activities required, in actual
fact, more time. The project had begun to gain momentum in the last two years of the implementation
period. The principal justification for project extension was to allow the consolidation and application
of the physical, technical and organisational achievements and capitalise on the momentum generated
into effective programmne development. The project was provided with two annual extensions and
finally closed on October 31, 1994. Total project expenditure as of March 31, 1994, estimated at
US$42.8 million was about 73% of total estimated expenditure. The loan provided by the Bank to GOI
for the project amounted to a total of US$33.0 million out of which US$27.02 million or about 82%
was disbursed as of September 1, 1994. Bank disbursements are eventually likely to account for
additional portions of the remainder of the loan balance due to a backlog of reimbursement claims that
have not yet been adjusted (despite it being pointed out by supervision missions) and anticipated
expenditures for the current year.
4.         Relative allocations between components are different from those envisaged at appraisal.
The most significant of these are the reduction in expenditures on cotton development as a
consequence of the decision to stop further funding as suggested by the Mid-Tern Review (MTR), the
reduction in the component on roads improvement from USS12.9 million (representing about 22% of
SAR total costs) to US$9.3 million and a substantial increase in the provincial agricultural support and
area development component from US$12.2 million (about 21% of total costs) to US$17.5 million
(about 41% of total expenditures). The increase in expenditures on the provincial component,
undertaken with the agreement of the Bank, was justified as it supported the Government's policies of
decentralised local level development in particular as well as for the accelerated development of the
Eastern region in general - a region that has not benefited substantially from the recent economic
development of the country.
5.         Physical. Physical targets for most project activities classified along four sectoral lines
were largely achieved. Physical achievements under the Provincially implemented agricultural support
services and area development programmnes, although not projected at the time of appraisal, were
impressive. A Mid-Terrn Review conducted during the third year of project implementation confirned
the general approach adopted under the project but was conscious in recognising the non-viability of
cotton development and decided to stop further efforts in that area.
6.         OrganisationaVlnstitutional. Project components which covered a large numb.er of
interventions and which were implemented by a number of different agencies over varying
implementation periods, involved a complicated organisational structure. Four agencies (AARD, DGE,
DG Bina Marga, and DG Cipta Karya) of the Government were involved in the implementation of four
sectoral components. Project implementation also attempted to combine elements under Central
Government control with Provincial and Local (District) Government decision maldng. As a
2



INDONESIA NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
consequence, a fifth agency, BANGDA, under the Ministry of Home Affairs, was responsible for the
overall coordination of the project.
7.         The focus on project implementation through the provincial and district based
administrative structure, and extensive use of NGOs in NTB, were the most significant dimensions of
the project. The project envisaged two approaches to ensure decentralised project implementation. The
first was that the sectoral components would also be implemented under the specific directives of the
decentralised administrative structure. The second was the provision of funds for investment in
activities meant to reflect the perceived demands of the people. While the project did succeed in
bringing together different Dinases at the local level, the implementation of the sectoral components by
them nevertheless faced problems of coordination, in addition to the problem of matching technical
capabilities of line agencies between the national and local levels (see Project Impact). The
implementation of the Provincially administered components undertaken by the same Dinases as the
sectoral components, also confronted coordination problems. Nonetheless, the project made significant
strides in forging a framework for intersectoral coordination at the provincial and local levels.
8.         Decentralised decision making however appears to have been taken to extreme lengths.
There was a total of some. 18 different interventions that have been supported under the project. For
instance, in the case of one activity of goat distribution, implementaton was by two agencies (NGOs
and DGLS). The organisational structure at the provincial and district level lacked the focus required
for effective impact and was dominated by an annual programme approach that did not adequately
reflect clear objectives, a consistent rationale, rigorous prioritising of activities and effective beneficiary
participation.
Project Impact
9.         The project has to be seen as the beginning of a long-term strategy for the development of
areas where the environmental resource base acts as a major constraining factor. In terms of
establishing its goals of strengthening local level institutions and improving multi-sectoral planning,
primarily at the provincial leveL the project was well implemented. Although only partly specified at
appraisal, the project also succeeded in implementing an impressive range and number of physical
interventions both in directly productive and social infrastructure activities. It also succeeded in
furthering the Government's objective of decentralisation and created an awareness and motivation
among line agencies at the Provincial and District levels. It is with respect to the aspect of the project's
impact on raising incomes, sustainability and opportunities foregone that lessons, both for the
borrower and the Bank, can be drawn. A sunmmarised review of project impact by components is as
follows:
3



INDONESIA NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Appendix A. Missions Aide-Memoire
Farming Systems Research: The project has successfully laid the
foundations for agricultural research in the region and defined a total of eight
technology packages relevant to the agro-ecological environment of the project
areas. The effectiveness of the packages however require further assessment
before widespread adoption is reconmmended since it is suspected that the costs
of recommended level of inputs would be too high, given prevailing farrn
incomes. Further, while the technology developed by research attempted a
systems approach, translation of the technology to the farmers was carried out
on a standard sectoral basis and technology development included an inadequate
consideration of the sociological and economic factors at the farmer level. The
dissemination of these packages among the farmers of the area have been limited
primarily due to the absence of an institutional mechanism allowing for easy
availability and access to inputs (improved seeds; fertiliser and pesticides which,
though generally available, are out of the financial reach of the average farmer in
the region). Project impact however has to be seen from a long term perspective
and there is need not only to continue the beginnings achieved but adopt a wider
basis for agricultural research and development in the region to provide a greater
focus on crop-animals systems.
Cotton Development: Although the project achieved some success in
improving the technology for cotton production, the advances did not succeed in
improving the relative profitability of the crop by smallholders under the difficult
environmental conditions in Nusa Tenggara. The project appropriately withdrew
from further support to this activity.
Cattle Development: Cattle distribution as envisaged under the project was
well implemented and had an impact on farm incomes and security of the
recipient beneficiaries. Given the quality and numbers of animals distributed it
would also have an eventual impact on the total herd size and quality of the
project areas. Project impact, however, would have been considerably greater
had it been associated with an additional focus of providing draught power for
crop cultivation and the development of sustainable agriculture. Although the
programme benefited from complementary investments in animal health centres
under the Provincial component, project impact would have improved further
with increased focus on animal production issues. There is need for a
modification of the cattle production parameters, underlying the financial basis of
the distribution programme through the revolving fund, if it is to be sustainable.
The cattle fattening programme was not implemented other than in a limited pilot
phase during the initial years of the project.
4



INDONESIA: NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Ap,pcndix A: Mission's Aide-Mcmoire
Roads Improvement: The difficulty of the terrain and the remoteness of
the area implied a significant positive impact from the provision of roads under
the project. However, project impact would be substantial as and when the full
potential of the area is realised. At the same time, inadequate maintenance of the
roads provided under the project raises an issue that would require specific
attention if project impact is to be sustained.
Agricultural Support & Area Development: Impact under this
component, as stated earlier, has been one of the most important achievements
under the project. Inasmuch as the interventions supported indicate some
measure of the needs of the people, an equally important element has been the
establishment of a process that responds to the demands of the people. The
institutional strengthening provided has allowed agencies at the local level to
formulate operational plans and budgets, furthering the goal of decentralised
development. Project activities however have tended to cover an inordinate
number of activities raising questions on the sustainability of the interventions.
Although an organisational mechanism for assessing and selecting interventions
was established at the local level, it did not succeed in effectively screening them.
There is need for establishing an effective criteria to define a priority ranking for
interventions supported. Sustainability requires an appropriate blend of activities
that are both directly productive and improve the social infrastructure. The
differences between the Integrated Agricultural Development (IAD) approaches
in two areas and the generalised Provincial and District based approach of the
project were not clear and justification for doing so was weak.
Regional Investment Studies and Implementation Support: The
provision of more than 770 man-months of technical assistance for regional
planning, investment preparation and support for area development activities in
Irian Jaya and Southeast Sulawesi, as well as in NTT and NTB, have laid the
groundwork for undertaking a programmatic approach for the development of
those areas. Project activities have greatly strengthened the capacity of
BAPPEDAs at the Provincial and District levels to plan, monitor and coordinate
rural development activities in their regions. While some form of refresher
training for technical staff will have to be continued, project activities for the
future should aim at intemalising the considerable support provided in the form
of consulting services under the project.
5



INDONESIA: NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
D. Lessons Learned
10.        Project Design. As the first phase of a long-term programme to develop technical and
organisational modalities for the development of the region, project design adopted a large number of
approaches resulting in a complicated O&M structure. Thus, for instance, project implementation was
hampered due to lack of coordination not only arnong different agencies at the local level but also
between the national level and the local level units of the same agencies. A lesson of experience for the
future is that the requirement for simplicity in project O&M structure should be reflected in project
design.
11.        While block financial allocations appeared attractive due to their flexibility and  being
demand responsive, the result was that they also permitted the promotion of far too many activities.
There is, therefore, a critical need to establish criteria or parameters for the selection of project
activities on the basis of established priorities. Project design would also need to establish a balance
between project activities that generate income and are likely to be sustainable as opposed to activities
that support social infrastructure and are likely to generate a demand on scarce Government resources
for their operation.
12.        Given the ecological base of the project area, project design should have focused on a
conservation led strategy for development concentrating not on land conservation as an activity by
itself, as under the project, but on an overall approach of watershed management and development.
13.        Beneficiary Participation. Project impact has not been commensurate with the level of
physical achievement because of inadequate attention given to beneficiary involvement. Apart from
activities (such as village irrigation and livestock distribution) which have resulted in direct returns to
the farmers, some of the other activities have been planned and implemented under a "directive"
approach including provision of materials and equipment on a grant basis (land conservation, estate
crops). These latter activities have had limited success and may not be sustainable. Beneficiary
involvement is required not only at the planning and design phase of the interventions but also during
implementation.
14.        Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project benefited from a high degree of
supervision and monitoring. The project has distinguished itself by the large number of studies
undertaken in various disciplines, although it appeared that more effective follow-up action on the part
of the Government to translate the recommendations into policy was needed to fully benefit from the
studies. Project supervision has been systematic and consistent, recommending a number of evaluations
on specific activities before deciding to curtail or strengthen them. Greater attention to the technical
aspects of implementation however, would have revealed, early in the project period, the non-
6



INDONESIA: NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
sustainability of a number of interventions under the project and the need for balance between directly
productive activities and activities in support of social infrastructure.
E. Operational Plan
15.        The mission was pleased to note that Government had already provided sufficient funds
for the continuation of project activities beyond the extended closing date of October 31, 1994 to the
end of the Indonesian financial year at the end of March 1995. It is an index of the importance and
commitment attached by GOI to the project. The World Bank is in the process of preparing a second
phase project, called the Nusa Tenggara Regional Development Project. Although the follow-up
project could conceivably include areas covered by the NTASP, there is a need for an explicit
commitment from the Government of Indonesia that financial resources to allow the continuation of
normal project support maintenance activities would continue to be provided till such time as the
successor project becomes effective.
16.        The need to finance operational activities cover the following components:
Farming Systems Research: Activities under this component are likely to
require the most support. A main base for farming systems research near Kupang
and sub-bases at Maumere in Flores, Sandubaya in Lombok and Asembagus in
East Java have been established with a total staff of 226 (175 of which are
support staff).   AARD  has integrated only about 10%  of incremental
professional staff in its regular cadre. Funds would be required to finance staff
costs, building maintenance and operational expenditures including the costs of
material, equipments, inputs and transport expenses. While it is likely that the
follow-on project under preparation by the Bank would support the entire
programme of the FSR component, funds would nevertheless be required for
AARD to continue its activities till such time as the successor project becomes
effective.
Livestock Development: Operational costs for maintenance of livestock
development activities relate basically to ensuring cost recovery in respect of
animals distributed earlier under the project and utilisation of funds for re-
distribution to newer beneficiary groups. Annual operating costs would cover
staff incentive/coordination costs, material costs including animal feed costs,
office supplies, and transport costs. This should also include support for
SATGAS to continue its operational activities.
7



INDONESIA NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Appendix A Mission's Aide-Memoire
Roads Improvement: Maintenance costs for the roads constructed under
the project were not included under the project. However, given the steadily
deteriorating nature of the roads in the absence of any provision for maintenance
expenditures, a system of increasing local responsibility for road maintenance
would have to be devised.
Agricultural Support and Area Development induding Support for
Project Management: Operational costs for the wide range of activities
supported under this project cover staff salaries, honorariums and incentive
support, office supplies, reporting costs, utilities, meetings, and travelling costs
and allowances. Resources should also be made available for continuous
monitoring by Provincial and District BAPPEDAs.
17.        There are three sources for financing the operational expenditures listed above. They are
from the annual budgetary allocations made by GOI to the Provinces under APBN (ONTOP), APBD I
and APBD II. Furthermore special financial allocations on a Kabupaten basis are being made by the
Central Government for a wide range of poverty alleviation measures. The proportion of funds
required for supporting maintenance/operational expenditures would be a small percentage of the total
resources available at the Provincial level for each Kabupaten. During the wrap-up meeting it was
agreed that BANGDA would provide to FAO/World Bank their estimate of the financial requirements
to cover the above categories. This estimate would indicate the funding requirements for sustaining
project operations. GOI along with the Provincial Governments would then have to undertake to
provide the resources required to meet such operational expenditures.
8



APPENDIX B
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The implementation of the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project (NTASP)
was initiated  in fiscal Near 1986/1987. The implementation schedule has been extended
from the original date of loan closing on October 1992 to October 1994. The project
wmas scheduled to be completed within five vear period. but delays in execution have
resulted in an eight vear implementation period for Components A, C. D and E. The
extension of the Project was taken into account in order to meet the targets which have not been
achieved vet. extend the implementation arca of FSR technology package, and utize the
available balance of loan. Some of Rp. 76,715.2 million (USS 42.8 million: Loan: USS
29.4 million and GOI: USS 13.4 million) has been expended on implementation during
the project period bv the Government of Indonesia *vith loan funding from the World
Bank. In addition. UNDP and AIDAB have provided grants to fund too major technical
assistance projects in support of NTASP.
Project Objectives
The pnrmary objectives of NTASP as defined in the Loan Agreement are to raise
smallholder incomes. promote equitable regional development. strengthen local level instiutions.
improve multi-sectoral planning at both national and local levels. To achieve these objectives.
NTASP was formulated with six components as follows: Component A - Farming Sycm and
Cotton Research: Component B - Cotton Development: Component C - Cattle Development:
Component D - Roads Improvement: Component E - Agricultural Support Senices and Area
Developmrent: Component F - Regional Studies and Implementation Support.
The project objectives are suitable to the problems that occur in Nusa Tenggara Barat
and Nusa Tenggara Timur. The first objective is relevant *ith regard to income and fegional
development since most of the people in the region are below the poverty line. Whereas the
infrastructure is underdeveloped and the regional development unequallv distributed as wIl. The
second objective is relevant to the local institutions condition wvhich were less effective and
efficient. Therefore the local institutions have been highly strengthened which increased the
capability of local authorities in governing the regional development. The third objective is
relevant v,ith the needs of agricultural support. To support the agriculture-based development in
these tvo provinces multi-sectoral planning at both national and local level has been successfully
enhanced
Implementation Experience and Results
Project Achievement and Sustainabilitv
The project intervention has had a direct impact to the beneficiaries. The level of income
benefit per household has been increased within the range of 6% to 95% (see Appendix C1). The
increasing is a result of the equitable rcgional development program carried out bv the Project
through activities designed to increase the participation of farmers and disadcantaged rural
groups. the intoduction of appropriate technology and the provision of materials and equipment.
The local govermnent has extended the program to the farmers in order to activelv maintain and
improve the activities created by the Project.
In the context of institutional strengthening. the GO in tandem w ith the local
government %vill further strengthen the local concerned institutions by defining the scope of
institutions program to achiese broader coverage and greater sustainabilitv of smallholder
development activities. In terms of improvement of multi-sectoral planning. the important
progress has been achieved in annual planning and budgeting under the project at the national.
provincial and district levels as evidcnced bv the completion of annual operational plan and
a0R - A%7ASP                                                                 '   i



budgets. HoAever. at the village level project interventions have been carried out as a subsector
basis and farmer groups have frequenthl participated in only one ty-pe of project intervention. For
sustaining the project the coordination at the sub district. village and farm level have to carry out
a more comprehensive approach to increase smallholder income and improrving standrds of
living would be improved.
Financial Aspects
As of March 31, 1994 the actual project cost incurred at the amount of
USS29.354.994.22 s ith reimbursement of USS 27,202.692.11 compare to the DIP estimate at
the amount of 543.166.362.43.
Key Factors of Objectives Achievement
One of kev factors that affected achievement of the mnajor objectives esspecially in
implementation of development activities at the local level is the active participation of the
community in identification, planning and implementation activities. When active community
participation was achieved in project intervention greater succes was achieved and greater
sustainabilitv is expected. Management Informnation System (MES) created under NTASP has
been partial succesfullv utilized in the project reporting system. It has supported the BAPPEDAs
in NTB and NTT in preparing the Statement of Expenditures required for reimbursement of
Bank financed actisities. However. MIS has not been fully succesful in assisting local agencies in
planning. management and evaluation of field activities.
Bank and Borrower Perfonnance
The Supervision Mission which held by the Bank more than ntice  a  yr  has
provided the GOI with findings and recomnmendations which supported the project actiities.
The Bank has  also provided the guidance of financial arrangements (reimbulrsements/
disbursements procedure). However. the different initiation of  fiscal year betwven the
Bank and GOI has caused some delays on project activities and programs implementation. In
GOI'sside. the initial implementation of the project has been delayed for almost oneyear
in order to pros-ide sufficient time for the Executing Agencies (EA) preparing the pmject
acti%ites. In addition. the complicated procedure of SPABP issuence has affected the
implementation of the project activities.
Project Outcome Assessment
Despite the shortcomings in preparation and implementation of the project for a certain
componenL the project is considered satisfactory. The smallholders income has imprcssitely
increased. More than one-third of the concerned local agencies staff has actively participated in
the project implementation and benefited from learning-by-doing expenences. The strengthening
of local institution has also been improved through provision of facilities and equipment. The
Project has also nadc a progress in planning aspect for the multi-sector both national and local
lCvcls.
ICR - JT.IS' UP. 



Summary Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lesson Learned.
Summary Findings
The findings of the project implementation experience will be seen from each
component. as follows: (I) Component A, a program of applied research focusing on defirLing
appropriate cropping panerns for drvland areas has been carried out during each vear of the
project at the Main-Base and all Sub-Bases. Eight technology packages have been defined (ii)
Component B. the activities for cotton development were not continued after three vears of
implementation due to the comparatively lower rate of financial benefit of cotton cultivation to
area farmers as compared to other cropping possibilities: (iii) Component C. the levels of cahing
and calf mortality have been improming as farmers (most of whom had not ouned cattle before)
have gained in experience aided by training by the SATGAS. However. both calhing rates and
calf mortality rates are at present below potential and it is expected that many recipients widl be
unable to repay two calves within the six years credit period. (iv) Component D, the balance of
the target for road improvement were completed under the ADB assisted 11th Roads Project.
Vehicle traffic on these road sections has increased to approach the levels projected at the time of
appraisal; (v) Component E. this component is an experimental component to test decentralized
approaches for agncultural support services and area development. The results have shown that
the approach can Nield significant benefits to a large number of rural households below the
poverty line while at the same time stimulating economic growth: and (%i) Component F, a focus
of the activities was the strengthening of the capacitn of the BAPPEDAs at the provincial and
district levels to plan. monitor. and coordinate rural development activities in their regions.
Investnent projects were identified and feasibilit. studies prepared for two area development
projects in Irian Jaya and Southeast Sulawesi. External funding of these projects has not yet been
agreed upon.
Future Operations
The Goverment has prepared projects focusing on agricultural-based are a development
to follow-up on NTASP in the eastern region of Indonesia. Based on the experience of
implementing NTASP.. ke elements to be considered in formulating the follow-up project would
include the following: Decentralized Institutional Approach. Integrated Area Development.
Agricultural Support Services. Participation of Target Groups. Farming Systems Research and
Development. The Role of Women. Scheduling of Activities. and Mianagement Information
Svstem.
Kev Lessons Learned
The implementation of the project for eight years has provided the GOI the following
lessons: (i) the project should not be prepared as sectoral initiaves Xwhich provide assistance on
specific type of project intervention but rather as a more comprehensive package of inputs to
address the complex issues of rural development and poverty alleviation: (ii) the local
government agencies at the district level should be given responsibiltv for execution of field
activities: (iii) the coordination of project activities should involve the various level of
government through national to district level. (iv) the project approach (integrated area
development) should be used to dcfinc a package of inputs appropriate to selected project area:
(v) a participatorn approach should be defined to maximi7e the involvement of the beneficiaries:
(vi) the involvement of women in development process should be addressed through provision of
special training and participation in agricultural activities: and (vii) the financial arrangements
should be dissiminated to the EA in order to avoid the delav of project activites: and (viii) the
data collection and recording of the project acti%ites should be taken into account.
1CR -.%T4S'P                                                                  Pop if-



Part 1: Implementation Assessment
1.0    Initroduction
Government of Indonesia (GOI) has set up plan to pro.ide supports for less developed
regions or provinces through various strategic projects and programs. Those projects are funded
either bt GOI funding resources or foreign loan.
Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT). two among 27 provinces
in Indonesia. are considered less developed regions. Percapita income in those two province in
1986 is far below national average with uneven distribution. In 1985. human resources quality
relatively still low with life qualitn index 53 for NTB and 55 for NTT. by the same time. the
national human life qualitv index has reached 72. Moreover. wAith poor support from their
apparatus. institutions in these province are less capable in dealing %%ith regional development.
Based on the above-mentioned problems. the GOI has implemented various projects or
programs to enhance regional development at those pro%inces. One of the projects is Nusa
Tenggara Agricultural Support Project (NTASP) which used an Integrated Area Development
(IAD) approach. The NTASP *-as launched in 1986/1987. The implementation schedule has
been extended from the original date of loan closing on 31 October 1992 to 31 October 1994.
The project was scheduled to be completed within five year period. but delays in execution have
resulted in an eight year implementation period for Component A- C. D and E. The extension of
the Project was tak-en into account in order to meet the targets wvhich have not been achieved yet,
extend the implementation area of FSR technology package. and utilize the available balances of
loan funding.
The Project w'as formulated with six components as follows: Component A - Farming
Sy stem and Cotton Research: Component B - Cotton Development: Component C - Cattle
Development: Component D - Roads Improvement: Component E - Agricultural Support
Services and Area Development: Component F - Regional Studies and Implementation Support.
The pnmary cxecuting agencies for the successive components have been the Agency for
Agricultural Rcscarch and Development (AARD). Government Estate Crops Enterprises (PTTs)
XXVI and .YXVII. ihe Directorate General Livestock Services (DGLS). the Directorate Gencral
Bina Marga. the Directorate General Regional Devclopmcnt (DG BANGDA). the Directorate
General Cipta Karva and the local government authorities of NTB and NTT.
Z0    Performance Judgement and Analysis
2.1    Project Objectives and their cvaluation
The pnniary objectivcs of NTASP as dcfincd in the Loan Agreement are to raise
smallholdcr incomcs. promotc equitable rcgional dcvclopmcnt. strengthen local lcvcl institutions.
improve multi-scctoral planning at both national and local levels.
The projcct objcctivcs scem to be suitabic to the problcms that occur in NTB and NIT.
The first objectivc is relcvant with regard to income and rcgional development. Before the
project interention as reported in the SAR for NTASP. NTB and NTT are two of Indoncsia's
poorcst provinccs. Pcr capita Gross Rcgional Domcstic Product (GDRP) wvas less than 50%1 of
national average in 1984. placing NTT and NTB 24n and 25"' out of 26 rankcd provinces (only
Yogyakarta rank-cd lowcr). and consumption levcls wcrc rcported as the lo%%est in the nation.
Bascd on a farm budget analysis the appraisal cstimated that annual net per capita incomes
rangcd from  USS37 to USS57 in Lcmbor and USS35 in Lombok Tcngah in 1987. Based on the
ICR - NT-4SP                                                                  Page I



reports of the the Execuung Agencies (EA). the project has had impact or increasing the
smaliholder. The level of income benefit per household is araned. but generally ranges from rnve
marginal benefit to a 90% increasc in annual net farm income as descnbed in each sectoral
reports.
Concerning w'ith the equitable regional development. the irifrastuctures in INTB and
NTT have infrastructures %%hich seem to be underdeveloped. w%hereas the regional development
unequally distnbuted. On the other hand. the policv of government of Indonesia during RepeLita
V has placed the highest emphasis on achievement of a more balanced and equitable pattcrn of
development. In line v'ith the government policy. the project activities were oriented to
decentralize responsibility for planning and implementation of development activities to the local
level and focus attention on alleviation of poverty in areas considered to be in need of attention.
The Project also involved the target group in project planning and implementation. However. the
aboxe approach was nor guarantee that project activities could be implemented successfidly and
may not sustainable. unless the local government . The continuing efforts by local government
authorities to improve farmer capability to effecuvely maintain and improve on the actnites
which has been pro%ided by the project should be taken into account.
The second objective - Locall.  institutions that involve in provincial level of
development has been strengthened in order for them to be more capable in governing the
regional development. Increasing the capabilin of the local institution is the critical matter for
the government in provincial level. Some programs has been carned out bn the project such as:
training: upgrading the facilities. housing . and ofices: and involving the staffs from local
institution in planning and implementation. However. to achieve broader coverage and greater
sustainabilitv of smallholder development actnities. the institutions should be further
strengthened.
The third objective - To support the agiculture-based development in these two
provinces multi-sectoral planning at both national and local level xwithin the context of area
development has been enhanced. Those institutions included BAPPENAS. DG BANGDA. MOA
(DGLS. AARD. DGE. Bureau of Planning). MP\V (DG Bina NMarga and DG Cipta Kana).
BAPPEDAs. Danas of Public Works (Cipta Karva and Bina NMarga). Dinas of Livestock SerMices.
Dinas of Estatc Crops. and AgencY- for Agncultural Rescarch and Development (AARD). The
projecL intervention has had an impact in progressing the annual planning and budgeting at the
national. provincial and district levcl as cevidenced by the annual Operation Plans (OP) and
budget documcnt completion. Howevcr. the coordination at thc sub-district. village and farm
level to carry out a more comprehensive approach to incrcasing smalliholder incomes and
improving standards of living would bc conttunuely carried out in order to maintain its
sustainabilitv.
The six componcnts %%hich has bccn formulatcd by the projcct meant to achieve the
abovc objctiivcs and cach of thcm carrics its ow%n objectives and implcmentation targetsnhich
also stated in SAR and Loan APre ment. as follozss:
1)     Component A - Farming .S.ylem and Cotton Research
Thc objcctiecs of this component arc: (I) promoting agricultural productivity through
sustainable farming system: (fi) incrcasing thc income and %%clfarc of the poor farmers: (iii)
contributing to thc cfforts to prcscrvc environment: and (iv) promoting human resourccs quality.
Thc three major project activites of this componcnt arc constructions and faciliLiCs provision.
rcscarch. and publication/documentation and data manageimcnt. To mect the componenL'
objective. the primary impicmcntation targcs of this component have bcen statcd to: cstablish
threc efild stations for farming stn.stc. rcscarch (FSR) at NaibonatLili. Nlaunierc and
Pringgabaya: upgrade thc rcscarch Institute for Tobacco and Fiber Crops (BALITAS) in Nialang
Il'R -NTsSP                                                                      Page 2



and construct housing. storage and laborator facilities at Asembagus including Lhe provision of
eqcuipment and spnnkler systems for the production of breeder and foundation seed: complete a
one year study of farmning svstem in NTB and NTT: carrm out applied FSR and field trials during
the life of the Project in order to define FSR technology packages: and utilize technical
assistance totalling 80 months foreign (AIDAB funded) and 60 months Indonesian consultancy
to support the FSR.
2)     Component B - Cotton Development
The primary implementation targets of this component are to: establish two cotton
development units: establish demonstration areas of 5 ha on famers fields in Lombok. Sumbawa
and Flores: complete verification trials on 22 ha plots in East Lombok and Flores: complete a
financial analysis of PTP XXVI and XXVII and a feasibility study for a possible smatlholder
cotton development project.
3)     Component C - Cattle Development
The primary implementation targets of this component are to: distnbute 22.500 head of
breeding cattle to targeted beneficiaries: distribute 6.000 heads of fattening cattle to targeted
beneficiaries: construct three new holding ground/quarantine station and rehabilitate one existing
station: complete a feasibility studc for livestock production on Tambara Peninsula in Sumbawa.
NTB: and utilize consulting serices totalling 61 months (AIDAB funded) and 72 months (local).
4)     Component D - Roads Improvement
The primarv implementation targets of this component are to: improve 190 km of
national and provincial highway in Flores: establish three equipment %%orkshops for Public
Works Offices in Kabupatens Sikka. Nagada and Larantuka: complete a feasibility stu&d for a
north coast Flores road between Riung and Magepanda.
5)     Component E - Agricultural Support Services and Area Development
The primary implcmentation targets of this component are to: improve institutional
capabilities of local government agencies: test decentralized, area specific approaches for rural
development under conditions in the two provinccs: improve levels of income and welfare of
target groups.
6)     Component F: Regional Studies and Implementation
The primarn implementation targets of this component are to: develop approaches for
integrated area development and agricultural support services in the provinces of NtB and NTT;
review the rcgional developient strategy and identify investment projects in South East
Sulawesi: complete a regional development plan. prepare one major project for donor funding,
and identify investment projects in Irian Java: and strengthen institutional capabilities of the
accounter agencics.
ICR - NTSP                                                                    Page 3



2.2    Achievement of Project Objectives
The project objectives achievement will be presented by looking at each objectives.
Objective I. Raising smallholders income and promoting equitable ragional do elopment
The reports of the EA indicate that the Project has had a direct impact on more than
100,000 households in NTB and NTT thus exceeding the target of 90.000 households originally
established at the time of project appraisal. Based on the results of the survey on farmers grotps
for the impact e-aluation studies. the level of income benefit perhousehold is highly variable by
type of project intervention but generally range from veny marginal benefit to a 95 % increase in
a normnal net farm income.
Objective 2' Strengthening local level Institutions.
The Project has contnbuted to strengthening institution in the target pro,inces. Some
5.850 participants have benefited from 249 short-term training courses and facilities and
equipment have been provided to strengthening agricultural support senices. Some 2.500 agency
staff have been directly involved in the implementation of the project and benefited from learning
by doing experiences. Those tarinings lead to the strenthening of local institutions which have
showvn that the planning system based on the bottom up pattern has been implementaed Along
ith that. the staffs capability had been improved in planning and implementing  various
programs of regional development as well. The strenthening of local also have been benefited
farmers which improved their methods in farning system.
Objective 3: Improving multi -sectoral planning at both the national and local level.
Since the project involves various sector at both national and local level progress has
been achieved in annual planning and budgeting undcr the project at the national. provincial and
distnct levels as evidenced by the completion of annual operational plan and budgets. However.
at the village lcvel project interventions have been carried out as a subsector basis and former
groups have frequently participated in onlv one type of project intcrvantion. There remain
considcrable scope for improving coordination at thc sub district. village and farm level to carrv
out and morc comprehensive approach to incrcasc smallholdcr incomc and improving standards
of living.
Other achievement will bc viewed in terms of: the aspccts of financial which comparing
actual and estimate cost; and the changes in various factors. Financially. as of March 31. 1994
the actual project cost incurred at the amount of USS29.354.994.22 %vith reimbursement of
USS27.202.692.11 comparc to the DIP estimatc at the Cmount of USS43. 166.362.43.
Substantial changes havc been achievcd in icrms of macro policy showvn by thw
implcmcntation of scecral rcgulations rclated to arca dcvclopmcnt. Among others is the concept
of Intcgrated Arca Development ([AD) *thichi has bccn introduccd through the Instruction of
Miniter of Home Affairs No. 14 of 1990: Government Rcgulation No. 6 of 1988 and No. 45 of
1992. Other changcs %%hich also substantiallv achicvcd arc physical objcctivcs (scc tablc 5) and
poverty rcduction (scc appendix C.1). Partial changes have been achieved in tcrms of sector
policy. financial objectives (sce table 6). and institutional dcxclopmcnt (scc appendix C.2).
Conccrning the sector policy the Instruction of Minister of Agriculturc of 1991 is onc of the
policy dcals with sectoral matters. In terms of gcndcr issucs and othcr social objectives. the
project sccm ncglcctcd thesc aspects. Finally. the aspect that not applicable to the program arc
cnvironmental objcctivc and private sector development To bc morc clearly cxplained. onc can
rcfCr to tablc I on statistical annexes.
ICR - NTASP                                                                     Page 4



2.3 Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
2.3.1 Implementation record
The the project implementation. which has been taken place. u%ill be seen from each
component:
Component A - A main base for FSR near Kupang and sub-bases at Maumere in Flores.
Sandubava in Lombok and Asembagus in East Java have been established with a total staff of
226. A program of applied research focusing on defining appropriate cropping patterns for
drvland areas has been carried out during each vear of the project implementation at the Main-
Base and all Sub-Bases. Eight technology packages have been defined. Those packages are: (i)
technolog)  package for rain-fed paddy: (ii) houseplot technology package: (iii) technology
package for cntical land of Bobonaro Clay: (iv) dryland technology package'. () irrigated rice-
based technologp package: (0i) lixestock technology package: (vii) foodcrop technologp package;
(xiii) cotton-based technology package.
Component B - The actiNities for cotton development were not continued after three
years of implementation due to the comparatively lower rate of financial benefit of cotton
cultivation to area farmers as compared to other cropping possibilities. Since 1989 NTASP
activities rclating to cotton have been limited to research. Further research and strengthening of
extension capabilities of PTP XXVI is recommended if the potential of this crop in the region is
to be attained.
Component C - Some 20.743 heads of breeding cattle have to date been distributed on a
credit basis to area farmers in Nusa Tenggara out of the original target of 22.500 heads.
Meanwhile. some 500 heads of fattcning cattle have been distributed to the farmers out of the
original target of 6000 hcads. The levels of calving and calf mortality have been improving as
farmers (most of whom had not ow%ncd cattle beforc) have gained in experience aidcd by training
by the SATGAS. In manv areas farmers are also realizing significant benefits from using their
animals for ploing. Ho%%ever. both calving rates and calf mortality raLCs arc at present below
potential and it is expected that many recipients %%ill be unable to repay two calxes within the six
years credit period. Reschcduling of rcpavmcnt has been done to ovcrcomc this problem.
Continuation of lou% levels of productivity w%ould significanlv rcducc the financial bcnefit of cattle
distribution to participating farmers. the number of cattle availabic for rcdistribution. the total
hcrd size and the cconomic bencfit fronm this component.
Component D - Some 152 kilomctcrs of provincial roads have bccn improvcd on Florcs
Island out of thc original target of 190) kolimetcrs. Thc balancc of thc targct for road
improvcmcnt u.crc compicted undcr the ADB assited I l1h Roads Project. Vchiclc traffic on thcsc
road sections has incrcascd to approach the Icvcls projectcd at thc timc of appraisal. Thc first
phasc (Rcconnaisancc study) has bcen conducted. i%hilc the second phasc (Main study ) in North
Florcs w%as considered unnccessarv to be carricd out duc to lack of its bencelit.
Componcnt E - This componcnr is an cxperimcntal component to tcst decentralized
approachcs for agricultural support services and arca dcvclopmcnL. The resulis havc shou%n that
thc approach can yicid significant bcncefits to a largc numbcr of rural houscholds below thc
povcrtv linc whilc at the samc timc stimulating economic grou%th. Sonic 78.(XX) farmers havc
participatcd in field activities. Althouglh not all participants havc achicvicd sustainable bcncfils
from the projcct interventions. an cconomic ratc of rcturn of 17 % has bcen achiccd for the
overall investment in comiponent E based on thc evaluation's field sun c%. The acti%itics ulhichi
havc becn conductcd tinder this component arc as follows: Land Conservation. Seed
ICR- \NT SP                                                                     1Page S



Multiplication. Village Irrigation. Tree Crops Development. Livcstock Suppon Services.
Integrated Area Development. and Non-Govermrent Organizations.
Component F - This componenL co-financed %%ith UNDP grant assistance (USS
4,588.691) provided more than 770 man-months of technical assistanec for regional planning.
investment preparation and support for area development actisities in NTB - NTT. Irian Jaya and
Southeast Sulawesi. A focus of the actihities was the strengthening of the capacity of the
BAPPEDAs at the provincial and district levels tO plan. monitor. and coordinate rural
development actiities in their regions. A total of 1.620 agency staff participated in 108 training
activities. Imnestment projects ivere identified and feasibilitv studies prepared for two area
development projects in Irian lava and Southeast Sulawesi. but external funding af these projects
has not yet been agreed upon.
2.3.2   Major Factors affecting the project
Factors that affect the project can be vieuved from the factors that subjcct to government
control and those which not subject to government control.
Factors that subject to government control:
(i)     Since the AARD is now considering changing the intitutional status of the research
facilities to FSR institute %vith a broader geographical mandate. In long-term, the
program will depend on the mobilization of additional full time researchers to staff the
field stations wzith Ph.D. and M.Sc. and further strengthening support staff.
(ii)    Strengthening of extension capabilities of PITP XXVI is recommended if the potential of
this crop in the region is to be attained.
(iii)    Improvements of productivities "ill require continuing extension work on animal
nutrition. forage crops. cattle breeding and diseases during the post-Project period. It is
recommended that DGLS and the provincial and district Dinas Livestock begin to
prepare for this continuing extension effort.
(iv)    The pnorltization of road construction done by D.G. Bina Mlarga of this road section
%%ill improve the efliciencv of the regional transportation system and expand economic
devclopment in the north coastal area. Other factors also affected the project of this
component are road maintainancc. road rehabilitation. and feasibility study for North
Coastal Flores Road.
(v)     In terms of agriCultural support the land conservation. seed multiplication. village
irrigation. tree crops dcvclopmcnt. livestock support serices have affcctcd the project.
Yieids of the tree crops far below potential due to farmers that have not adopted
improvcd tcchnology.
(vi)    The technical assistant so far have been helped by the UNDP fund as grant assistanec
providcd more 770 mm  of technical assistance for relional planning. investment
preparation and support for area dcvclopmcnt activities.
(vii)   The devaluation of Rupiah against US Dollar has doublcd the amount of loan in terms of
Rupiah. As an impact there is a balance of loan iltich could not be uLilized in the
original periof of Project. Therefore. the ProjeCL  hals been extended to utiliz.e the
remaining balanec of loan.
ICR. ,VT4SP                                                                      Page 6



(siii)   The delays of reimbursement of project fund *%cre caused by- the application of special
account bv vhich the reimbursement wvar done through Kantor Perbendaharaan dan Kas
Negara (KPKN). The delavs were mostly caused by the imcompleLe required documents
for reimbursement of fund and frequentlv took place in the project site where Central
Bank of Indonesia has not been established et. Another constraints is the replenishment
from "DIT TUA DJA" did not specifx the fund allocation by each project component.
(ix)    Management information system (MIS) which was partially used in NTASP has been
succesfulll handled the project reporting system. It has supported the BAPPEDAs in
NTB and NTT in preparing the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) required for
reimbursement of Bank financed actinities. Howvner. MIS was not designed to assist in
planring. management and evaluation of field activities.
Factors that not subject to government control:
(i)     The level of input that recomended by each package was cosidered to be high. Although
the expected returns during the first year were high the level of margin wvas verv low.
Therefore. Unless they are given subsidies or credit facilities, farmers saving would be
low as w%ell.
(ii)    The activities for cotton development were not continued after three years of
implementation due to the comparatively lower rate of financial benefit of cotton
cultivation to area farmers as compared to other cropping possibilities. Other than those
problems. AIDAB funded consultants had identified some constraints. There are
unsuitable soils and erratic rainfall, food crops receive priority over cotton due to labor
shortage. reduction of subsidies on insecticides w%ould make less attractive for farmers to
plant cotton.
(iii)    Problem  seem  to appear in cattle distribution, disease, and death.  Distribution of
breeding cattle w%as originally scheduled for implcmentation during a five to six year
peiod. but delays have resulted in the implementation period being strecthed to eight
years. Delays are reported to have bcen caused by the rainy season problems in
transportation of cattlc increasing pricc of cattic. difficultics in obtaining cattic in the
face of competition  ith other projects. probiems in flov of funds from  DDI and
logistical probicms relating to location of the Projcct arcas. Disease control by'
'accination is another important factor to bc considered in any cattic dcvclopment
program. In NTT cattle decrwase wvas caused bv dcath.
iv)    Thic main probliem that rclate to factor that not subjcct to governmcnt control is natural
disastcr. The rcccnt natural disastcr is Florcs (carthquake. tidal wavc. and heasv rains)
have damaged some of the roads improvecmcnt completed undcr NTASP.
(v)     Sonic probicms occur in land conservation. The key problem is thai farmers were not
involved in thc sclcction of crops to bc planted. Nlany farmers appcar to have
participatcd to obtain frcc inputs and have not scriously maintaincd the tree crops.
(X-i)    Lcngth of consultation for componcnt E sccmi to be main factor. The cxpericncc of
implcmcntation has shown that thc original thrcc %car p.riod %%as not sufrlcicnt to fully
test thcsc approachcs. A longcr pcriod of five to six ycars has proven to bc morc rcalistic
for thcsc type of activities.
(vii)    Onc of kcy factors that affcctcd achicemcnt of the major objectives cspccially in
implcmcntation of development activitics at the local levcl is the acti%c participation of
the community in actiNiry idcntification, planning and implcmcnation.
ICR- .vrasP                                                                         Page 7



2.4     Prtoject Sustainabilitv
Looking from how the project achieved its objectives and evidenced by the results. it is
very likely that project can be sustained. The likelihood of sustainabilitx can be seen from several
aspects such as: borroNwer commitment: incentives for participant to sustain the project: policy
environment:  nstitutionalimanagement effectiveness: economic,  technical. financial and
emironmental viability: social impact and local participation.
Borrow%er comnutment has been shown through the GOI participation in cooperation
with Loan from [BRD. despite the limited amount in domestic fund. The involvement of local
staffs in N-TASP reflect the borrow-er commitment as -well.
Those who involves as participant w%ill be benefited by the project through increase in
their income. Project activities (village irmgation. livestock distribution. NGO actixities) which
responded directly to the needs of the target group. involved them in planning and
implementation. and were planned to maximnze finacial rcturn to the farmers had a much higher
rate of success.
Government policies that relevant to the policy environment are those that stated in page
I (one) of this report ([CR). Government policy currrently moves toward the tendency of
decentrali7ation. This meant that provincial authonties are giv en more autonomy to develop their
region
Institutional/management effectiveness can be seen from the development of human
resources and the organization of activities. In the context of human resources developmenL
various trainung program either short term or regular seems need to be continued. To build the
expenence of local staffs the learning-by-doing program has to be followNed up as wiell. In terms
of the orgamzauon, the proje.t w%hich w%as managed through adhoch mechanism  have to be
smoothly transfered to the local agencies. To ensure the succes of transfer. the local agencies as
EA must be fully involved in project implementation. So the discontinuity of project benefit
which was caused by lack of synchronization betw%cen projcct management unit (PMIJ) and local
agcncies can be a%oided. For the purpose of sustainability of the programs conducted under
NTASP. the concerned dinases are recommended to havc action plans.
The economic   iabmlity of the project are indicated by the economiic ratc of return of thc
project. There are only to componcnts of the projcct which ERR were estimatcd in thc SAR.
Those arc cattlc developmcnt and roads improvement. Ho-owvccr. impact evaluation study also
estimated ERR for the componcnt on provincial dceclopment. The appraisal cstimated ERR for
cattle dce%lopmcnt and road improvement 18% and 24% respectively. *Vhilc impact cvaluation
studv cstimation wcre lowcr than thc appraisal onc with 8-12% and 12 % rcpectivclh. The ERR
ror provincial dcvclopmnent "as cstinatcd to be 17%o by impact evaluation study. From those
numbcr ccnthough ERR ror cattle development and road improvement sccm to bc lower the
sustamnablity w%as cnsurcd by componcnt of pro incial dcclopmcnt.
The financial  aiability of the projcct arc indicatcd by the total of bcneficicrics and how
muchi bcncefit that utilizcd by participant of the project. The nuinber of bencficicrics which
in%lovcd in thc projccts wcrc 1U1.25S houscholds.
2.5     Bank Performunce
The bank supcrxision missions %%hich ha%c bccn held at least twsicc a %car is the issuc
should be rcgarded. Thcsc niissions ha%c been ecr-l helpful by providing thc EA findings and
rccomnicndations tO makc the projcct . ivitics imlplcmcntcd satisfactorlyh The supervision has
initiated cecn prior to thc project imiplcnmcnlation. In the early stages of thc project. a UNDP -
ICR- -\TISP                                                                       Page 8



financed. vxorld Bank- executed project (INS/78,(046) %%as conducted. This the project which
regional planning and preparation of investment oriented projects which is known by its
Indonesian acronym. PPLPD "%as carried out to improve the technical quality of the GOI's
investment program.
In early 1984. the Bank also assisted the GOI through its FAO/IBRD cooperative
program (CP) to prepare a multi component agricultural suppon project suitable for Bank
financing. The above-mentioned actiNities provided the groundwork for future investment.
including the NTASP.
In the appraisal process. the Bank conducted various studies and projects review which
carried out in the past. The review has provided data to the GOI in project preparation and
implementation.
Despite the main positive role of the Bank in the project implementation. there remains
a constraint on the initiation of fiscal vear which is different between the Bank};s and the GOI's.
This difference has caused some delays on project activities.
2.6     Borrower Performance
Concerning the project management. the GOI has set up the project structural
arrangements to ensure the smoothness of project management activities. The decentralized
approach N%ith pnmary responsibility for execution of most of the activities being assigned with
the concerned Dinas at Kabupaten level has also been used. Coordination of annual planning and
implementation of acti%ities has been carried out by the BAPPEDAs Tk. I and Tkl II and annual
operational plans have been prepared by each Dinas Tk. 11. In other %%ords. the organizational
structure for the project has been effectivelv set up.
Dunng project implementation. the GOI in cooperation % ith the LTNDP and the World
Bank have supported the project impact evaluation study. The purpose of this study has been to
evaluate the progress of the Project in realizing the stated objectives and identiA- problens.
lessons learned and prionties for follow-up activities. This steps i%as taken into account to ensure
that the project outcome could be adopted by other projects.
TIhe main lessons of experience for the GOI that may be relevant to the preparation and
implementation of other projects in the future are the project preparation should be carried out
prior to the project implementation by the selected local government of the project arca. the
identification of the project area. target groups. activities/programs should involve the local
government and community. and the staff x%ho mill be involved in the project should be trained
and provided %%ith knowlcdge concerning the project.
In overall. the GOls performance on project implementation is satisfactory in
preparing. implcmenting and maintaining the project sustainabilitv.
2.7     Assessment of Outcome
Thc overall project outcome is considercd to be satisfactory. This judgcmcnt was made
based on project objectives achievement. Eventhoughi not all components w'ere succesfull
implemented. most of project matters have sho%%n the impact to the incrcasc in incomc of
smallholders. Since the road improvement had been done. this program also induced cquitablc
regional developmcnt.
In term of instiLutional strength. capabilities of EA in governing project %%ith regard to
the regional development had been up-graded througlh the program  of human resources
ICR - NT-4SP                                                                      Pag  Y



development. The impact of trainings that were held by the EA had benefited most paricipants
in target pro-inces. In order to strengLhen the local instituuon. facilities like vechicle. staffs
housing. and equipment had been provided. Some staff of local agencies had also invohled in
implementation and been benefited through learung-by-doing e.qpenence.
The plannmng aspect for multi-sectoral both National and Local level had shown the
progress. T'is eNidenced by annual operational plan and budget document. However. the ,illage
inter\ cnuon in the project vas suill limited to one type of project on sub-sector basis.
The achleuement of the project targets and objectives were not merely evidenced by its
physical aspects. but also its social aspects. The improvement of infrastructure in NTT and NTB.
increase in skill. and the adoption of new technology have led to the change of attitude and
behavior in produjction patern. Consequently. the productivity of smallholders whether directly
or indirectlv involved in the project has been elevated and in the mean time has simultaneously
increased the income generate. Those achievement implied the sustainabilitv of the projeca
2.8     Future Operation
The Government is considering the preparation of a followN -up project focusing on area
development in NTB. NTT and other provinces of Eastern Indonesia. As the Government places
the highest pront on the alleviation of povertm  and the incidence of proverty in the rural areas
of NTB and NTT is among the highest in the countr-. there is a strong justification for such
project. The finding of the impact E^aluation Studc  support the need for a follow-up project to
consolidate the activities initiated under NTASP and expand the coverage to new areas in NTB.
NTT and po5siblv other provinces of eastern Indonesia.
Based on the experience of implementing NTASP. key elements to be considered in
formulating the follow-up project would includc the following:
(X)     Decentralized Institutional Approach is recommended with the local government with
the local government agencies at the district lcvel being given responsibility for
ecxecution of field acutities. The dccentralization by itself is expected to be able to
empowcr the local dinascs to conduct field activities. Attention should be given to
strengthcning of the district agcncies and their ficld staff. Caniats and Village Chicfs
should be involved in the coordination of actlvtiCs at thc field level.
(iil    An Area Development approach %%ould be uscd to definc a package of inputs appropriatC
to areas selected as having a high incidencc of povcrty and rcsource potential. Activities
would includc devclopment of basic infrastructurc (villagc roads). w%atcr supplv. and
incomc gcncrating activities in the agricullural sector.
(iii)    Agricultural Support Services w%ould be further strcngthcncd. Broadcr implementation of
village irrigation (including groundcatcr). conservation farming systcm, food crop
intcsification. livcstock  cxtension. animal health  and cashcw  credit   would be
considcrcd.
(iO)    A Participation Approach would bc dcfined to iiaximiic thc lccl of participation of
targctcd bcnceficiariCs in planning and implemcntation of actix itics. In conjunction with
this approach the communitv bascd dcvclopmcnt havc to bc taken into account.
ICR -N T4sP                                                                        Page Io



(v)     Farming Systems Research and Development w%ould be included to further develop
technology packages appropriate to local environmental conditions. The project should
be formulated to strengthen the linkage between researcher and extension. In the future.
the development of farning system  have to the marketing aspect in oder to enable
farmers to market their products.
(vi)    The important Role of Women in the rural economv would be addressed through
provision of special training and participation in agricultural activities.
(vii)    The Scheduling of Activities would be realisticalls scheduled with reference to the
instituuional capacity of the local government agencies and logistical and
communication problems of the region.
(liii)   A kev element of the approach w%ould be an improved NIS to ensure that all project
activities are coordinated. monitored and evaluated to achieve optimum results.
2.9     Key Lesson Learned
The implementation of the project for eight Nears has provided the GOI the following
lessons:
(i)     the project should be prepared as a comprehensive package of inputs to the local
go-crnment authonty to address the complex issues of rural development and poverty
alleviation:
(ii)    the local government agencies at the district level should be given responsibiltv for
execution of field acti ities:
(iii)   the coordination of project activities should involve the various level of government
throuoh national to district level:
(iv)    the project approach (integrated arca developnmcnt) should be uscd to define a package of
inputs appropriatc to sclcctcd projcct arca:
(0)     a participator- approach should bc dcfined to maximiiizc the involvemcnt of the
beneficiaries:
(vi)    the involvcmcnt of %%omen in dcvelopment proccss should be addrcsscd through
provision of special training and participation in agricultural acti% ities:
(vii)   the financial arrangeinctis should bc dissiminatcd to the EA in ordcr to avoid thc dclav
of projcct actveacs.: and
(viii)  thc data collection and recording ol thc projcct act ites should bc tak-cn into account.
ICR - .\T..iJ                                                                      Page II



IBRD 1900CR
11 6'                                         IIE-                                          120'                                           12?-                                                          PHILIPPINES
BRUNEI
MALAYSIA
1245
,. AMp AKAO
NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                                                                              1
TAMBORA]FLOEL.olk 
-8t   /                                     ~~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~~~~PENINSULA  |FLORES                                                                              //°
/     ,    \                                                      {g,                               ReO p        ,                                        LO,OR
{~ ~~~4~ #WSlOO  .-,eSO   °8,,dTa                                           /       LabUh8nba,a    Rueg                                      M.Q! PSTd; S                         I                                 .
TIMOR
/                   L,1,r P.             VWernTO   = Nd.-                                                                                   TIMUR
oPULAUoOMBOK                              PULAU SUMBAWA
NUSA   TENGGARA  TIMUR
INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                            s               TIMOR
' NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT                                                                                                                                              A                                         10'
PROJECT AREA                                                                     Tonohkodukuno                                                          0Pn
Pilot Area Development                                                                                             P. SAVU
A   Research Sites
Agricultural Support Services Components
Road to be Improved                                                                                                                             P. ROTI
Area Suitable for Cotton                                                                                                              Dohoo
Roads
Subdistrict Boundaries
District Boundaries
Province Boundaries
International Boundaries
0                   100                 200                  300 KILOMETERS                      rh   o.....
o0              5               100             150              200 MILES                         O.  ,oG  °o
L 1 2 ony ludomenP n 1 2t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oT                                                                                               ..o
I 116                                       l18t                                          120-                                         122'                                         124'
FEBRLA*R IW5









L M[ A';I NK
Report. No:         147201
Type: 1CP



