Page  1
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053348 GUB 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Coastal and Biodiversity Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Acting as an Implementing Agency of the 
Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated  December 15 , 2004 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053348 GUB 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 15 , 2004, between the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF and the REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the Recipient). 
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter from the Recipient, dated March 
18, 2004, describing a program designed to protect and sustainably manage the 
Recipient’s natural resources, including fisheries (the Program) and declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of such program;   
(B) 
the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(C) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(D) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(E) 
the third replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 2002-2005 of December 19, 2002, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank (Resolution No. 2002-0005); 
(F) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Part A and a portion of 
Parts B and D of the Project of the Project, and said request having been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
Page  3
-
2
-
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 2002-0005, 
which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund 
under Resolution No. 94-2 or the second replenishment under Resolution 98-2;   
 
(G) 
the Recipient has also requested International Development Association 
(the Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of Part C and a 
portion of Parts B and D of the Project the Project by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Association, is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to SDR 2,100,000 (the Credit); 
(H) 
Part A of the Project will be will be carried out by the Institute for 
Biodiversity and Protected Areas (IBAP), an autonomous entity to be established by the 
Recipient pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of the Agreement referred to in the preceding 
paragraph and further defined in Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement, such Part A to be 
carried out with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient 
will make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant provided for in Article II of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement available to IBAP as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (16), 
(18), (19) and (20); Sections 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (g), (i), (j), (k), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;      
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" means special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement"; 
(ii) 
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(iii) 
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iv) 
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(v) 
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(vi) 
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph (q) is added after subparagraph (p) in 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: 
 
"an extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and the Development Credit 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:   
 
(a) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the “General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association dated January 1, 1985 
(as amended through October 6, 1999) as applied to such agreement, and all schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
(c) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in the 
amount of four million eight hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
Page  6
-
5
-
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Part A and a 
portion of Parts B and D the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall:  
(i) 
cause IBAP, through the Project Implementation Decree, to 
carry out Part A of the Project;  
(ii) 
through MoEF, carry out Parts B.1, B.2 , and D of the Project;  
(iii) 
through its Ministry of Fisheries cause CIPA, pursuant to 
arrangements acceptable to the Bank, to carry out Part B.3 of the 
Project; and  
(iv) 
through the Office of the Prime Minister, carry out Part C of 
the Project; 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of the carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Recipient, through MoA, shall: 
(a) 
facilitate the transfer of, 
inter alia
,
the appropriate responsibilities, 
personnel and resources to IBAP to enable it to carry out its functions, and have free 
access to the coastal zone data currently managed by MoA’s Coastal Planning Unit;   
(b) 
cause IBAP, pursuant to arrangements acceptable to the Bank, to enter 
into an agreement with IUCN (the IBAP-IUCN Agreement), under terms and condition 
satisfactory to Recipient and the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
that IUCN shall: (i) facilitate 
the transfer to IBAP of the management of the Participating Protected Areas, including 
but not limited to the transfer to IBAP of the field structures, equipment, and 
documentation currently under the responsibility of IUCN’s Protected Areas Nucleus-
NAP;  (ii) be a member of the Steering Committee; and (iii) facilitate access by IBAP to 
all relevant biodiversity information, including biodiversity information available from 
the IUCN networks; and 
 
(c) 
cause IBAP to exercise its rights under the IBAP-IUCN Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall cause IBAP not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the IBAP-IUCN 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
By not later than 24 months after the Effective Date, provide to the Bank 
evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, of the creation of the Formosa 
Protected Area in the Administrative Region of Bolama e Bijagós, such Protected Area to 
include a Reserved Fishing Zone. 
 
(b) 
By not later than 36 months after the Effective Date, provide to the Bank 
evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, of the creation of the Cantanhez 
Protected Area in the Administrative Region of Tombali. 
 
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:  
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were Report-Based Disbursements or made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs C and D
 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and projected sources and 
uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the previously forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
(b) 
that the Recipient shall have abrogated or modified the legal status of the 
Participating Protected Areas, or taken any action, including the enactment or issuance of 
laws or regulations, which, in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect, prevent, or 
interfere with, the carrying out of the Project or the performance by the Recipient of any 
of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Development Credit Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled.   
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministério da Economia e Finanças 
 
C. P. 67 
 
Bissau 
 
Guinea-Bissau 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MEF 
 
   257 
MEF 
B1 
 201626 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
By 
/s/ Henrique da Silva 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By 
/s/ Mahmood A. Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant   
 
Allocated % 
of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
US$ Equivalent)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
                      100% 
 
(a) For Part A of the Project                   700,000 
 
(b) For Part B of the Project                     40,000 
 
(2) 
Works 
                      100% 
 
(a) For Part A of the Project                      50,000 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services and audits 
 
100% 
 
(including Training and Workshops) 
 
(a) For Part A of the Project                  1,500,000 
 
(b) For Part B of the Project                     600,000 
 
(c) For Part C of the Project                     170,000                   
 
(d) For Part D of the Project                     600,000                   
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 
100% 
 
(a) For Part A of the Project                     340,000 
 
(b) For Part B of the Project                     220,000 
 
(c) For Part D of the Project                       80,000                   
 
(5) 
Unallocated 
     500,000 
 
________  
Page  14
-
13
-
TOTAL  
4,800,000 
 
======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
the incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of 
vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, office rent, travel, per 
diem and allowances, travel and accommodation, and reasonable bank charges related to 
the operation of the Special Account, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil 
servants. 
3. 
For purposes of this Agreement, it is understood that the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions of a decision of the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance convened to the Association through letters dated March 14, 2003 
and May 27, 2003, respectively, confirming the exemption of taxes and custom duties 
levied in the territory of the Recipient on works, goods and services for this Project.  In 
the event of any change which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such 
works, goods and services, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contracts; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; and (e) training, workshops, Incremental Operating Costs, and 
Recurrent Costs for IBAP, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
7. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a 
Page  15
-
14
-
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the  
six-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient shall open and maintain in FCFA a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Page  16
-
15
-
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Recipient and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special 
Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, 
and shall notify the Recipient and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of FCFA 250,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 125,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$960,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount, as the 
Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such 
procedures, as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
The Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall deposit withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has 
determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to 
such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Recipient’s institutional 
framework and build human resource capacity to protect and sustainably manage its 
coastal and biological resources. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Protected Areas and Threatened Species Management
1. 
Institutional strengthening of IBAP for the purposes of assisting it in the carrying 
out of national policies and strategies for biodiversity conservation and Protected Areas 
management through, 
inter alia
,
the development of internal administrative and financial 
operating procedures, the equipping of both IBAP headquarters and Protected Areas, the 
recruitment of staff, and the provision of training. 
2. 
Carrying out of management activities in the Participating Protected Areas such 
as demarcation of boundaries, patrolling, maintaining dialogue of resident population 
through meetings, monitoring the use of natural resources by resident population, and 
chairing meetings of Participating Protected Areas management committees that includes 
representatives of communities in a decentralized participatory manner. 
3. 
Preparing and carrying out action plans with the overall purpose of improving the 
management of the following threatened species: turtles, manatees and primates.  
4. 
Carrying out of technical studies for the purpose of creating the Cantanhez 
Protected Area. 
Part B
:
Natural Resources Management
1. 
Financing of Micro-projects in and around the Participating Protected Areas to 
assist communities in identifying and implementing small-scale, biodiversity-friendly 
activities, such activities to include, 
inter alia
:
supporting artisanal fisheries, 
diversification and transformation of agricultural and forest products and promoting 
renewable energy alternatives.  
Page  21
-
20
-
2. 
Carrying out of studies for the purpose of promoting the creation of a sustainable 
private mechanism for financing activities such as those described in Part B.1 above, and 
for supporting the cost of operating the protected areas system. 
3. 
Carrying out of participatory management and sustainable use of Reserved 
Fishing Zones and other fishing areas, through activities including, 
inter alia
,
support of 
monitoring, control and surveillance of artisanal and industrial fisheries.  
Part C
:
Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework
Development and implementation of an environmental and social safeguard 
framework through the preparation and adoption of policies and procedures necessary for 
ensuring that environmental and social concerns are taken into account in the 
development decision-making process.  Specific activities include: 
1. 
Building the Recipient’s capacity to evaluate and monitor the environmental and 
social implications of development proposals, with an emphasis on understanding the 
potential environmental and social impacts associated with petroleum exploration and 
fisheries. 
2. 
Supporting the mainstreaming of environmental law through harmonization of 
the national legislation to meet the Recipient’s commitments to biodiversity-related 
international conventions. 
Part D
:
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation 
Supporting Project implementation, coordination, financial management, 
monitoring and evaluation through, 
inter alia, 
the provision of technical advisory services 
and training, financing of operating costs, minor rehabilitation works, and the acquisition 
of equipment and vehicles. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultant
s’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 (a) 
Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost respectively $150,000 and $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured or assembled in the country and domestic 
contractors in the territory of the Recipient. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less then $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
the aggregate amount not exceeding $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  23
-
22
-
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
the aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to the 
aggregate amount not exceeding  $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 as specified in the Procurement Plan 
may be procured from UNDP’s Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to the 
aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date,  
a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
Page  24
-
23
-
2. Prior 
Review 
(a) Goods
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(b) Works
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000
 
equivalent per 
Page  25
-
24
-
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial audit, works supervision and other tasks of standard nature 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
 
Selection Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
Page  26
-
25
-
2.
 
Prior Review
(a) Firms
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 during 
the first year of Project implementation, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 (b) 
Individuals
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more; and (ii) the first three contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$50,000, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
Terms of Reference and Short List
The terms of reference and the short list of firms or individuals, as the case may 
be, shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval in respect of all 
contracts for services of consulting firms not exceeding $50,000, and in respect of all 
contracts for services of individual consultants not exceeding $30,000.  
3.
 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Schedule 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
Establish and thereafter maintain the PMU within MoEF, throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, with structure, functions and responsibilities, and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
Establish and thereafter maintain the Steering Committee, throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, with membership, mandate and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of, 
inter alia
,
oversee the overall Project 
implementation, and provide advice and policy guidance and facilitate coordination 
among the Borrower’s ministries and agencies.  
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, requirements and procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan 
and in the Procedures Manual; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or 
waived, the Project Implementation Plan or in the Procedures Manual, or any provisions 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Without limitation upon the other provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the relevant Annual Work Program referred 
to in Part C.1 (b) of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), Process Framework 
(PF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall:  
 
(a) 
Carry out or cause the Project to be carried in accordance with the 
environmental, social and resettlement guidelines, rules and procedures defined in the 
ESMF, the PF and the RPF (including the preparation and implementation of the 
appropriate action plans for compensation or resettlement, as the case may be, in 
accordance with the PF and the RPF, said plans to be in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank); and  
Page  28
-
27
-
(b) 
Not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the ESMF, the 
PF or the RPF, or any provisions thereof, in a manner, which, in the opinion of the Bank 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (a) all measures necessary for the carrying out of 
the ESMF, the PF and the RPF are taken in a timely manner; and (b) the progress reports 
referred to in paragraph C.1(c) and D.2 of this Schedule shall include adequate 
information on monitoring the measures defined in the ESMF, the PF and the RPF. 
 
C. 
Monitoring, Annual Work Program and Reporting
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare an annual work program in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Annual Work Program), and furnish it to the Bank, on or about  
September 30 of each year, such Program to describe the activities to be carried out and 
expenditures to be made under the Project for the following calendar year;  
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30 of each year, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph F.1 (a) of this 
Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by July of each year, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph C.1 (c) of this Section, and thereafter act 
promptly and diligently in order to take, any corrective action deemed necessary to 
remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to implement 
such measures as may have been agreed between the Recipient and the Bank in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
Page  29
-
28
-
D. Midterm 
Review
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out, jointly with the Bank, not later than April 30, 2007, 
a
comprehensive midterm review aimed at: (a) documenting progress toward achieving 
the Project objectives; (b) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project implementation; 
(c) adjusting, in agreement with the Bank, targets and corresponding programs to reflect 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project as of the date of the review; and 
(d) an overall evaluation of the Project against the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.   
2. 
The Recipient shall not later than four weeks prior to the midterm review referred 
to in paragraph C.1 above, furnish to the Bank a midterm report, in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in the 
Project implementation.  
3. 
Promptly after completing the midterm review, the Recipient shall take all 
measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said review for the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon.     
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators to be used for Project implementation are as follows: 
1. 
By the end of the Project, at least 3,500 square km of land and water under 
improved management, as defined in the PIP. 
2. 
As of January 1, 2007, the number of infringements of the applicable regulatory 
framework related to the Reserved Fishing Zones by fishing vessels decreases by 10% 
per year in relation to the baseline established in calendar year 2006.  
3. 
As of January 1, 2007, the Recipient provides sufficient financial resources to 
cover the operational and maintenance costs of all fisheries surveillance activities 
(including surveillance stations, vessels and patrols). 
4. 
By the end of the Project, all of public and private development projects eligible 
for review are submitted for environmental impact assessment review prior to being 
implemented, by the end of the Project.
 
