RP225
March 2004
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA BISSAU
COASTAL AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
SECTION 1:
PROCESS FRAMEWORK
FOR THE RESTRICTION OF ACCESS
TO NATURAL RESOURCES
SECTION 2:
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
BISSAU
MARCH 2004
RIE COPY



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROCESS FRAMEWORK
AND
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
COASTAL AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GUINEA BISSAU
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY     ............................... vi
SECTION 1: PROCESS FRAMEWORK ..................                vi
SECTION 2: RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK ...           ........ ix
SECTION 1:
PROCESS FRAMEWORK
INTRODUCTION .....................                              2
IL.   PROJECT  DESCRIPTION   ............      ...........       .. . 3
A. PROJECT COMPONENTS ........................... 3
i .   IBAP and the Conservation Foundation ............. 3
ii.   Community-managed Development Projects . . .  . ... 4
iii.  Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) .... 5
iv.   Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation .... .  .  .  . 5
B.    PROJECT COMPONENTS RESTRICTING ACCESS TO NATURAL RESOURCES. 5
Ill.  LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK                .     .       10
A. INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS.
. .10
B. NATIONAL LEGISLATION. 
.11
i. Decree-Law No. 3/97 on Protected Areas ..... .  .  .   ..  11
ii. Other Laws ............ ... ..    .. ... ...      . 14
a. Artisanal Fisheries Law ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 14
b.  Forestry  Law  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .14
c. Hunting Law ...................... . 14
d.  Land  Law   No. 5/98  .  . .  . . . .  . .  . .  . .  . . .  .  .  .  15
iii.  Nucleo das Areas Protegidas (NAPs) . . . ... . . . . . . . 1 5



IV. ELEGIBILITY CRITERIA                     ..                     15
A.    DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE POPULATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
i.    Resident  Populations  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
ii.   Seasonal Populations  .  .  . ......... .......    .  16
B.    PARTICIPATION OF ELIGIBLE POPULATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
V.    REMEDIAL MEASURES . ............... .......... . 18
VI.   GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION PROCEDURES ..... .        .  .  .  .  .   . .. .. 19
VII.  MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS ........ . . ............. 21
A.    MONITORING INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT .
.22
B.    MONITORING INCOME-RESTORATION MICRO-PROJECTS 
23
C.    MONITORING ECOLOGICAL IMPACT OF
NATURAL RESOURCE RESTRICTIONS ...................
23
TABLES
Table 1:  Park Legal Status, Population Resident in and around
Reserve Area, and Natural Resource Use in Each Area .... ....  7
Table 2: Economic and Social Organization of Ethnic Groups Residing
in or around Parks and Reserve Areas in CBM . . ... . ... .  9
Table 3:  Illustrative List of Restrictions and Possible Remedial Measures ....   . 20
SECTION 2:
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
I. INTRODUCTION.            .         ................. 26
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION..             ................. 28
A.   IBAP AND THE CONSERVATION FOUNDATION . . . . . . . . . . .... ..
28



B.    COMMUNITY-MANAGED DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS     
28
C.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
29
D.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
29



Ill.   PROJECT COMPONENTS NECESSITATING RESETTLEMENT ...          ... 30
A.    PROJECT COMPONENTS THAT GIVE RISE TO RESETTLEMENT.. . . .
30
B.    ZONES OF IMPACT .......... . ...................
. .31
C.    ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED .
* .31
D.    MECHANISMS TO REDUCE THE EXTENT OF RESETTLEMENT . .... . . . .
32
IV.   PROJECT  OBJECTIVES   ............................ 32
V.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC STUDIES ......................... 33
VI.   LEGAL FRAMEWORK ................                                40
A.    LEI DA  TERRA, No. 5/98  .....................       ..
. . 40
B.    LEIO DAS AREAS PROTEGIDAS, DECREE-LAW No. 3/97..
42
C.    GENERAL LABOR LAW ............... ...         . ... . ... . .
. . 43
D.    DIFFERENCES BETWEEN NATIONAL LEGISLATION
AND INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS .. . .   ................ ..
.44
VIl.  ELIGIBILITY .................................. 44
Vil. VALUATION OF AND COMPENSATION FOR LOSSES .                      44
A.    METHODS OF VALUING AFFECTED ASSETS  . .  ...  ................. . . .
44
Valuation of Agricultural Land                           45
Valuation of Urban Land      ..               .45
Valuation of Houses and Other Structures  .   .   .45
Valuation of Crops and Tress     ..             .45
Compensation for Business Relocation  .   .    .46
Compensation for Temporary Impacts  ..46
Other Assistance  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  46
Vulnerability Premium                          .         .46
B.    COMPENSATION PROCEDURES AND CIVIL WORKS SCHEDULE      .
46
IX.   RESETTLEMENT MEASURES.         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47



X.    SITE SELECTION, SITE PREPARATION AND RELOCATION ...    ..... 49
Xi.   HOUSING, INFRASTRUCTURE AND SOCIAL SERVICES ...      ...... 50
XIl.  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT ...         ....... 51
Xil.  COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION ........................ 51
A.    PAP PARTICIPATION .......................... . 51
B.    HOST COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION .................... 53
XIV. INTEGRATION WITH HOST POPULATIONS              .     .        53
XV.   GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES ......................... 54
XVI. ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONAL
RESPONSIBILITIES .....   .........       ................ 55
A.    ORGANIZATIONAL FRAMEWORK . .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55
B.   PLANNING PRINCIPLES AND PROCESS     ................ 55
XVII. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE .... .     .  .  .  .  .  . ............ 56
XVIII. MONITORING AND EVALUATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  57
A.    ADMINISTRATIVE MONITORING ....... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  . 57
B.   SUBSTANTIVE MONITORING ....... .. .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  . 57
C.    EXTERNAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION ... . ........... 58
XIX. COSTS AND BUDGET                                            58
TABLES
TABLE 1: Population Resident in Park Areas, Ethnic Composiotion,
Social Organization and Productive Activities,
For Each National and Natural Park .34
TABLE 2: Illustrative List of Remedial Economic Measures .48
TABLE 3: Illustrative Budget Template  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  58



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
SECTION 1: PROCESS FRAMEWORK
SECTION 2: RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
COASTAL AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GUINEA BISSAU
SECTION 1: PROCESS FRAMEWORK
The Coastal and Biodiversity Management project (CBM) will put in place natural
resource management schemes in and around protected conservation areas and
reserved fishing zones, and will help address potential threats from petroleum
exploration and industrial fishing. Implementation of this project will necessarily involve
restriction of access to natural resources in and around the national parks and legally
protected areas. The Government of Guinea Bissau has therefore developed this
Process Framework (PF) in order to define the process through with populations living
in and around these parks and protected areas will participate integrally in the definition
of restrictions, the assessment of the impact of any possible restrictions, the
determination of remedial measures to redress those impacts on segments of the local
population, and the resolution of any grievances or conflicts, as well as the definition
and implementation of a monitoring program to assess the adequacy of the project.
PROJECT COMPONENTS. The sustainable management of protected areas, as well
as the conservation of threatened species, requires both institutional strengthening (e.g.,
IBAP, INA) and more effective implementation of existing activities for biodiversity
conservation at the national, regional and local levels. CBM therefore has four
components: 1) creation of an Institute for Biodiversity and Protected Areas (IBAP), and
catalytic support for a Conservation Foundation to fund IBAP in the future; 2)
implementation of a Fundo de Iniciativas Ambientais Locais (FIAL) to fund both
community development investments and income-restoration measures due to
increased restrictions on natural resource use; 3) support for national standards for
environmental and social impact assessment; and 4) a Project Management Unit, with
responsibility also for monitoring and evaluation.
PROJECT COMPONENTS ENGENDERING RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS AND USE
OF NATURAL RESOURCES. The major local impact on resource use, at least in the
short term, will likely come from community-based decisions about restrictions on
resource use in both the conservation areas and the neighboring buffer zones
(Component 2). More effective enforcement of existing regulations may be considered
part of this local decision-making process. By contrast, enactment of new or
complementary regulations (Component 3) is a longer-term goal that requires a different
consultation process.
Legal Framework. Decree Law No. 3/97 on Protected Areas is the controlling legislation
for protected areas in Guinea Bissau. The law establishes the categories of
conservation reserve area (National Parks, Natural Parks, Environmentally Sensitive
Areas, Ecological Sanctuaries, and Sacred Forests). Further, the law mandates both a



socio-economic impact study of the park on local populations and a zonation of the park
area into core and buffer zones within the park. Decree Law No. 3/97 has precedence
over other laws that concern management of the national territory, such as the Artisanal
Fisheries Law, the Forestry Law, the Hunting Law, and the Land Law.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA. Both resident and seasonal populations are fully entitled to
participate integrally and meaningfully in the determination of restrictions on natural
resource use, the assessment of the impact of such restrictions, the definition of
remedial measures to redress those impacts, and the monitoring of the remedial
measures to ensure that all persons affected are assisted to restore their previous
standard of living in as short a period of time as possible.
To facilitate local consideration of the issues involved, determination of restrictions (that
is to say, of the norms regulating use of natural resources) will entail three progressive
phases: first, focus groups with specific resource users in each community (e.g.,
fishermen, shellfish collectors, mangrove area rice cultivators, palm cultivators); second,
visits by selected village leaders to villages in other parks that are engaged in the same
process; and third, community meetings to harmonize the assessment of resource use
by the community. The meetings will be facilitated by an intermediary organization
experienced in the area, such as an NGO, under contract to IBAP, and will benefit from
the technical expertise of the Park Management Council and recognized authorities.
REMEDIAL MEASURES. A major component of CBM is community economic
development based on the sustainable utilization of natural resources. The
establishment of the Fundo de Iniciativas Ambientais Locais (FIAL) will finance micro-
projects and conservation activities proposed by the eligible populations. To this end,
CBM will provide a fund, managed by FIAL, to facilitate local participation in the project.
FIAL will have two windows, one for community development and one for mitigative
measures necessitated by the collective determination of restrictions on access to
resources. Community development measures are those that benefit the entire
community, e.g., wells, boats, schools, clinics and other initiatives that are available to
everyone in the community. Mitigative measures, by contrast, are initiatives that benefit
only those people who lost access, in whole or in part, to a specific resource. Moreover,
since the purpose of the mitigative measure is to assist the affected population to restore
their livelihood, the measures must have a major income restoration aim.
FIAL will always give priority to funding income-restoration measures over community
development initiatives. This means, first, that half the FIAL fund will be reserved for
income-restoration and half, in principle, for community initiatives. However, second, if
in any year, the requests for financing income-restoration measures exceed the budget
available, those requests will be financed with funds that otherwise would have been
dedicated for community initiatives. FIAL may reallocate funds dedicated for income-
restoration to its community development window only if, in any year, all income-
restoration proposals have been funded and no additional proposals are expected. The
monitoring system (below) will specifically track the allocation and sufficiency of funds for
remedial measures every year.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES. The grievance resolution process provides a general
framework for conflict resolution premised, first, on finding mutually satisfactory solutions
within the project framework and, then, failing that, within the local traditions and
\'iii



authority of the community or communities involved. The coastal groups throughout
Guinea Bissau retain strong local, traditional leaders. Nevertheless, the specific details
of grievance resolution must be tailored to the traditions and customs of each group and
each area. Further, reliance on local systems of grievance resolution in no way
precludes the intervention of administrative, police, or juridical authorities in the exercise
of their stated powers. Where intense grievances between two ethnic groups arise, the
only solution may be the intervention of public authorities to decide upon the matter.
In the first instance, the aggrieved party can bring his or her complaint to the attention of
a project official, the facilitating NGO, or village leader. Every effort will be made at this
level to resolve the matter. If the village facilitator cannot bring the matter to resolution,
he or she will refer it to the FIAL program manager. If after due consultation and
deliberation, the program manager finds it impossible to resolve the matter, the issue will
be taken up by the CBM project manager.
If the matter cannot be resolved informally at the project level, the issue can be raised
with traditional local authorities. The project authority (i.e., IBAP or its contracted NGO)
can raise the matter with the deputy of the traditional chief, who will convene the parties
concerned and explore the grounds for mutually satisfactory resolution. If the deputy
cannot resolve the matter, he may refer the matter to the chief, first informally, then,
subsequently, if necessary, formally. In the latter case, the local chief will pronounce the
final resolution at the local level.
Should the matter remain unresolved, the aggrieved party may take the matter to court.
In fact, at any point in this process, the complainant has the prerogative of filing a court
case, if he or she so wishes.
MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS. The IBAP PMU has primary authority for
implementing a mechanism to monitor and evaluate all project activities. The monitoring
system will have three basic objectives: 1) to ensure that no populations are dislocated
from their present residences by the economic impact of restrictions on natural resources:
2) to ensure that project-affected people participate integrally in and benefit fully from the
FIAL income-restoration program; and, 3) to involve the local populations as fully as
possible in the implementation of the monitoring system.
In the first six months of the project, CBM will institute a baseline population census and,
with the local populations concerned, review of the existing park zonation in order to
ensure that no population currently resides within or is completely encircled by integral
or central zones where all use of natural resources, except fishing, is proscribed.
Monitoring of the micro-project program will track both administrative and substantive
activities. As for administrative activities, the monitoring program will review, each year,
the number of proposals for remedial measures, the type of measures, and their level of
financing. The concern here is that remedial measures always receive priority attention
in the context of the project. Monitoring of substantive activities will focus on the
participatory nature of the remedial measures, and the progress, to date, of the different
activities. Participatory monitoring will be used whenever possible, to create a sense of
ownership and to promote community understanding of project objectives.
In addition, local monitoring of natural resource use and the ecological status of their
area will provide a useful complement to the formal monitoring system proposed above.



Local populations are already aware of what the restrictions are and how well they are
observed. Local populations are also able and willing to monitor the status of the natural
resources in their areas - and in doing so will be able to correlate the impact of the
restrictions with the improvement or degradation of their local resources. Therefore,
each community will assess the state of natural resources each year, e.g., the extension
or degradation of mangroves in their area, the number of shellfish of each type found in
each area, the number and size of fish caught over the year in each locality, the
presence or absence of economic trees. These specialized production assessments are
best undertaken by focus groups organized by production role, as was done initially for
the assessment of resources and the definition of restrictions and remedial measures.
Each production group will report to the community, in a general meeting facilitated by
the collaborating intermediary organization, on its findings and recommendations for
future action. The community will redefine its action plan for the coming year on the
basis of these specialized local reports.
Further, and as an adjunct to this participatory monitoring component, IBAP will ensure
that every scientific investigation will include capable local people, not only in the role of
data collection but also in the role of data analysis. Such integral participation of local
populations in scientific studies not only provides employment, it also provides a window,
and a control, on the work of the various scientists whose studies will constitute one
basis for the definition of future restrictions on natural resources.
SECTION 2: RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PROJECT COMPONENTS THAT GIVE RISE TO RESETTLEMENT. CBM will focus on
institutional strengthening in order to improve park management in four existing and
three proposed protected areas -- the National Park of Orango, and the two associated
National Marine Parks of Joao Vieira-Poilao and of Orango, the Natural Park of Cufada
Lagoon and the Rio Grande de Buba, the Natural Mangroves Park at Cacheu-- and the
one proposed park at Mata de Cantanhez, as well as the proposed marine park at
Formosa. Effective park management through IBAP coordination may give rise to
resettlement in two ways: populations resident in the core areas within the park may
have to move in order to protect the environmental integrity of the core area: or, project
investments through FIAL may attract populations resident out of core areas and into
buffer zones inside or around the park, particularly when relocation is in the interests of
the communities affected.
Zones of Impact. The zones of impact are specifically those core areas within national
and natural parks where communities either now reside or are completely encircled by
core areas. In Orango National Park, there is one community on Imbone Island, which
has been declared a core area in consultation with the resident populations. In Cufada
Lagoon. there are six communities resident in core areas of the park. In Cacheu, there
are several communities in the westernmost part of the part that are completely
surrounded by core areas, which limits their economic viability and transport. Finally, the
number of communities in core areas of the proposed Catanhez park has yet to be
determined, and could determine the number of people affected.
Alternatives Considered. There are three alternatives given the definition of core and
buffer zone within the parks: 1) allow communities to continue to reside in the core
areas: 2) rezone the core areas to exclude resident communities; and 3) assist the



communities to relocate to the extent that they are willing. The only viable alternative on
both environmental and social grounds is to offer communities resident in critical core
areas the opportunity to relocate to neighboring areas of their choice. To the extent that
communities opt to relocate, population pressures on the natural resources in the core
areas will be eased, at least in the short term. If communities prefer to remain in the
core area and that zone is determined ecologically to be a vital environmental area, then
involuntary resettlement may be the only feasible option.
Mechanisms to Reduce the Extent of Resettlement. CBM will undertake three measures
to reduce the extent of resettlement. First, CBM will review the current zonation of the
parks in order to verify that the currently defined core areas are, in fact, critical
environmental habitats; this will be done through a biodiversity mapping exercise. In the
instance that parts or all of a core area are not critical environmentally, the core area will
be rezoned as a buffer area, where populations may reside and engage in usual
productive activities. Second, where communities reside in environmentally critical core
areas, CBM, through IBAP, will consult with the communities to determine whether they
are willing to relocate, and where, as long as basic assistance is provided for house
reconstruction, agricultural production, social infrastructure, and other needs. Since
GoGB professes that neither communities nor individuals should be relocated
involuntarily, forced involuntary resettlement through the use of legal instruments will be,
in all cases, the final resort employed only when communities resident in
environmentally critical core areas decline to relocate. Third, CBM, through IBAP, will
ensure that communities that relocate, voluntarily or not, will be treated similarly and will
be provided house plots and agricultural lands, with title, as near to their current
communities as is environmentally possible.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES. This RPF provides the principles for involuntary resettlement
and the consequent measures to mitigate social impacts so that project affected persons
(PAPs) will not be impoverished by the adverse project impacts. The paramount purpose
of this RPF is to restore PAPs' income-earning capacity, that is, to improve or at least
sustain the living conditions of the PAPs prior to project operations. It follows that PAPs
will be: compensated for loss of wages; compensated for loss of assets at replacement
costs; assisted in case of relocation or resettlement; and, given opportunities to share
project benefits.
SOCIO-ECONOMIC STUDIES. By law, establishment of a park requires, at a minimum,
a census of the population within the proposed park area, along with an assessment of
their economy, social organization, and cultural characteristics. The studies for each
park were conducted in the 1 990s in order to provide the legally required information for
the delimitation and zonation of each park. It is estimated that some 2,000 people in
approximately 20 villages might be required to relocate under the CBM project; the
actual numbers could be higher. The existing social studies will, therefore, be
complemented by a baseline recensus and socio-economic survey to be conducted in
the first six months of CBM. The identification/survey of project-affected persons (PAPs)
will be conducted by IBAP with the assistance of an international resettlement expert.
LEGAL FRAMEWORK. The Lei da Terra No. 5/98 constitutes the legal basis for
expropriation and compensation procedures in Guinea Bissau. According to the Law,
the State has the right to expropriate land for the public good. Expropriation follows
stipulated procedures, and compensation is made de facto according to the principle of
market value, without depreciation.



The Protected Areas Law Decree provides further explication of the rights of populations
within such areas. Essentially, villages resident in buffer zones within the parks may
exploit the natural resources as in the past, as long as their usage accords with park
management rules. Villages resident in the core or protected zones within parks may
collect forest products and fish, but cannot build new structures. It is this stipulation that
may necessitate relocation of villages from environmentally sensitive or critical core
areas of the parks.
Land law in Guinea Bissau accords with international standards in almost all regards.
The major difference between national legislation and international standards pertains to
the legal obligations for economic rehabilitation. Thus, while the legal framework for
expropriation and rehabilitation properly relies on the legislation of Guinea Bissau, the
higher of the two standards will be applied in any instance where there is discrepancy on
the grounds that the higher standard ipso facto meets the obligations of the other
standard.
ELIGIBILITY. All persons residing in villages within core areas of national or natural
parks are eligible for compensation and other resettlement assistance. The cut-off date
for eligibility is the date when recensus of the population in that park is initiated.
VALUATION OFAND COMPENSATION FOR LOSSES. The basis of the valuation is
Gross Current Replacement Cost (GCRC). Gross Current Replacement Cost is defined
as the estimated cost of erecting a new building having the same gross external area as
that of the existing one, with the site works and services on a similar piece of land. The
valuation process will also consider the use of 'compensation value' for affected
properties. Compensation value is defined as an amount above the gross current
replacement cost that includes compensation for inconvenience caused to the PAP by
relocation and any additional assistance (e.g., disturbance allowance). Compensation
value enables PAPs to build slightly better houses and other structures than what they
currently have. Additional payments, such as vulnerability premium, transitional
assistance, and economic rehabilitation are intended to assist PAPs to re-establish
themselves in their new locality.
Compensation procedures will include five steps:
(i)   Establishment of compensation committees,
(ii)  Assessment of replacement values of identified assets,
(iii)  Establishment of compensation rates for all assets to be
expropriated,
(iv)  Negotiation of each compensation offer with the PAP, and
(v)   Payment in full of the compensation value.
All PAPs in a locality will be fully compensated before physical relocation is initiated.
RESETTLEMENT MEASURES. The guiding principle for resettling villages in core
park areas is to relocate them in nearby areas with similar ecological conditions. By
limiting the distance of the move and ensuring that PAPs relocate in similar zones, the
extent of adjustment required is greatly reduced, and the success of the operation
therefore enhanced.
People who lose assets and resources will be assisted to fully replace those loses in the
new location. Houses and other structures will be rebuilt to at least the existing
xi]



standards. PAPs may construct their own houses and other structures, if they so wish,
in which case the Project Management Unit (PMU) will ensure any and all material and
assistance are provided. Alternatively, if a PAP is unable or unwilling to construct his or
her own residence or open new fields, the PMU will make arrangements for those
activities to be done in a timely manner. Importantly, house gardens and agricultural
fields, as well as grazing and other common areas, will be replaced with equal areas
with similar or better soil quality, water quality and accessibility, and transport availability.
Continued access to natural resources in the core areas may be permitted, under
specified conditions, and, if not, will be provided in the resettlement area.
At the same time, the resettlement sites will be provided basic social infrastructure that is
now generally not available in the original communities. Village wells, communal stores,
schools, clinics, electricity, and access to both water and land transport are among the
possibilities for either government or CBM investment or both.
Government will also provide whatever additional resettlement measures are appropriate
to facilitate the adjustment and re-establishment of PAPs in their new areas. Social
workers will be contracted to work with PAPs in the period prior to the move and
afterwards. Government agencies will assign technicians to provide these necessary
services. For example, the Ministry of Health will provide clinicians to ensure that health
status improves, rather than declines, during the stressful periof of relocation. The
Ministry of Education will assign teachers to any newly opened schools. The Ministry of
Agriculture will dedicate extension agents and other technical support to farmers in the
new area. Althernatively, an NGO may be contracted by the project for these ends.
SITE SELECTION, SITE PREPARATION AND RELOCATION. When a village
decides to relocate, the community, in close collaboration with the PMU and park
authorities, will suggest their preferred relocation sites. For collective relocation, once
the relocation area has been identified and surveyed to ensure that it is not held by legal
or customary right by other people, the PMU will, in close coordination with the local
officials responsible, acquire a sufficient amount of land of similar or better size and
quality that is acceptable to the PAPs. The amount of land acquired will be sufficient to
allow both house plots and agricultural fields of similar size to those held by the PAPs in
the core area. It will also provide sufficient grazing land for the animals owned by the
PAPs. For individual relocation, the individual PAP may negotiate with the local
authority for a house plot, agricultural fields, and grazing and other areas. The PMU will
verify that the price for these areas accords with current market rates, and, once
approved, will have the funds to purchase the houseplot and fields allocated for these
ends.
The PMU will coordinate with the authorities responsible to grant formal, legal title to
both collective settlements and to individual relocates, as is provided for in the Decree-
Law on Protected Areas.
In the instance of collective relocation, the PMU will oversee preparation of the
resettlement site, e.g., leveling the area, staking out house plots and agricultural areas.
No PAP will be required to move until his or her house and fields are ready for
occupation or use, and accepted by the PAP. All basic necessary community
infrastructure must also be satisfactorily installed (e.g., wells and pumps, docking
facilities) before PAP families relocate to the new area. Further, the PMU will provide all
necessary assistance for relocation, whether communal or individual.
NIII



HOUSING, INFRASTRUCTURE AND SOCIAL SERVICES. PAPs will have a decisive
role in determining the relocation area, in allocating house and productive plots, in the
design of new houses and other structures, and in the construction of replacement
buildings and other infrastructure. PAPs, in consultation with the PMU , will identify and
acquire replacement lands. PAPs will decide upon the allocation of house plots and
agricultural fields collectively or by lottery. In either case, PAPs will approve all
construction plans for their new home, such as the lay-out of the new village, the
floorplan for the houses, the location of kitchens, latrines, animal pens and other
associated structures. The PAPs will also oversee construction activities, and channel
any complaints through the grievance resolution system (Section XV).
The PMU will have overall responsibility for the installation of all required infrastructure.
Also as mentioned above, the PMU will take all necessary measures to ensure that
basic social services are available to the relocates. This means, first of all, that social
workers will be engaged to assist the PAPs in settling into their new residences. The
social workers will be responsible for facilitating the re-establishment process, and for
contacting the PMU should any unanticipated difficulties arise. The project will allocate
sufficient funds to accommodate requests for additional or alternative services or
infrastructure, as needed.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT. Wherever populations decide
to move, the PMU will carry out baseline environmental studies to determine the carrying
capacity of the resettlement area to receive additional residents. The studies will cover
all of the pertinent concerns, e.g., creation of new residential areas, increased demand
for fresh water, increased requirement for grazing areas, increased demand for and
opening of agricultural fields, increased pressure on traditional fishing territories. These
studies will be conducted when the communities are selecting their preferred relocation
sites. The studies will be provided to the communities and discussed in open meetings,
so that all people concerned are as fully informed about the potentials for each site.
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION. Communities resident within core park areas will
participate integrally and meaningfully in the decision-making about whether, where and
how to relocate, as well as about economic rehabilitation measures. Moreover, host
communities will be fully consulted about individual and collective relocation within their
traditional territories.
Once the decision to relocate is taken, the representatives of the PMU, together with
representatives of the government agencies responsible and the community, will identify
ownership of each structure and agricultural plot affected and, together, inventory the
structures, crops and other assets for valuation and replacement. When compensation
amounts are agreed upon in a locality, the PMU will proceed to organize the
compensation payment in public meetings.
In parallel with the compensation process, the PMU will organize meetings with the
community in order to identify acceptable relocation areas. The PMU, in collaboration
with community representatives, will visit the prospective relocation areas in order to
determine the availability and suitability of each area. Once suitable areas are identified,
the PMU will assist the community to acquire those lands, prepare land use plans,
design residential areas, and undertake all other necessary preparatory measures for
the actual relocation. Planning and coordination of these tasks are key to the successful
Xi\



implementation of the resettlement operation. To achieve that goal, workshops will be
organized in the communities and with relevant government agencies, in order to
facilitate the decision-making process and provide technical inputs to define a coherent
workplan.
Similarly, prior to physical relocation, the PMU will initiate with the community the
planning for economic rehabilitation measures. These will be presented in detail in the
RAP for the operation.
The overall process is identical when PAPs decide to move individually to specific other
locations.
HOST COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION. In each instance where a community must
move from an environmentally critical core park area to a new locality, the population
resident in the host area will be surveyed to determine their views and concerns about
the influx of a new population. As will be done in the affected communities, the PMU
will first consult with the local notables and government authorities, and then, with their
assistance and collaboration, organize open village meetings to discuss the advantages
and disadvantages of the proposal.
INTEGRATION WITH HOST POPULATIONS. Whether entire communities or
individuals relocate, the host community must agree to cede sufficient area for the
number of people to move to the host area. In recognition of this assistance, CBM will
provide host communities with the same infrastructure as that contemplated for the
resettlement villages.
GRIEVANCE PROCEUDRES. Grievances may arise at any stage of the resettlement
process -- over whether or where to relocate, over the inventory of assets or their
valuation, over the location of house plot and agricultural fields, over the relocation
process itself, or over economic rehabilitation measures. Given the range, and the
sensitivity, of the issues that may arise, the grievance resolution system must allow for
the full hearing of all complaints in a transparent, impartial, and systematic manner.
The aim of the grievance resolution process is to resolve issues in as harmonious
manner as possible so that all parties understand and accept the decisions. Further, in
practical terms, it is advisable to resolve issues as quickly as possible and at the lowest
level possible in order to avoid protracted disputes that can, over the longer term,
become all but intractable.
CBM will institute a number of measures to help ensure agreement and avoid disputes.
The project will provide each PAP the compensation rate list before the asset inventory
is undertaken, so that the community can review the list of assets and their general
valuation procedures. Subsequently, the project will provide each PAP an itemized list
of assets to be taken, with valuation for each asset, as soon after the asset inventory as
possible. Compensation will be paid, in cash, to individual PAPs only after written
consent of the PAPs, including both husband and wife. Payment will be effected at a
public meeting convened for that purpose, and will be verified by the PMU, the PAP,
and a concerned third party, such as a collaborating NGO. Similarly, the project will
provide PAPs full information on the assistance to be provided for house reconstruction,
field opening or leveling, titling, relocation, and economic rehabilitation.



Should a PAP at any time have a grievance, whether it is over asset inventory or
valuation, relocation assistance or rehabilitation measures, he or she can bring the
matter to the attention of local authorities or the PMU for informal resolution. If project-
level intervention fails to resolve the matter, the complainant can lodge the grievance
with the Village Grievance Committee (VGC). The committee will hold a meeting in the
village to determine the facts of the matter and recommend an appropriate resolution.
For these reasons, Village Grievance Committees will be established to hear and
resolve disputes. The VGC will include: one male and one female PAP elected by the
community, the village chief or his (or her) representative, one representative from local
government, one representative from the collaborating NGO, one member of the Park
Management Council (the park director or his representative), and one representative
from the project (IBAP). Decisions of the VGC will be by majority vote, and the minutes
of VGC discussions will be provided to the complainant.
Should the grievance continue without resolution, a civil court will settle the litigation.
Each PAP has the right to take his or her case to the court when the project grievance
redress measures have failed.
ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS AND ORGANIZA TION RESPONSIBILITIES.
Resettlement operations involve the collaboration of a number of ministries. The
Ministerio de Administracao Intema coordinates with the regional and local government
agencies on all resettlement issues overall. Meanwhile, the Ministerio do Plano, in close
collaboration with the Department of Statistics and Census (Departamento de
estatisticas e seso da popula,co), is the agency responsible for enumerating the
resident population. At the same time, the Ministerio das Obras Publicas works closely
with the Department of Geography and Surveys (Direc,co de geografia e cadastro), and
is legally responsible for the identification of the geographic area for relocation and for
confirming that the area is delivered to the resettler population without any effective
occupation or use. Other ministries may be called upon to assist in economic
rehabilitation (e.g., Agriculture) or in the provision of qualified personnel (e.g., Education,
Health). CBM has also established a steering committee to help coordinate and monitor
project activities.
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE. In the instance that a community must relocate from a
core area for ecological reasons or for its own benefit, CBM will, in close collaboration
with the agencies responsible, work with the affected community to identify and select
relocation sites, carry out environmental studies of potential sites, and develop a
Resettlement Action Plan. The RAP will follow the outline of this RPF, and will detail the
specifics of the particular resettlement operation, with particular emphasis on relocation,
economic rehabilitation, implementation schedule, budget, and monitoring.
MONITORING AND EVALUATON. CBM will undertake both quarterly administrative
monitoring of project inputs and annual assessment of the success of its resettlement
operations and economic rehabilitation programs. To ensure that monitoring results are
incorporated into subsequent project undertakings, the CBM IBAP PMU will organize
project completion workshops to assess progress, suggest corrective measures, and
resolve pending issues.
In addition, World Bank supervision missions will carry out annual supervision of
resettlement activities, with assistance from an international resettlement expert.



COSTS AND BUDGET. As mentioned above, the RAP for each operation will detail the
estimated costs for each activity, and specify the agency responsible for each budgetary
allocation and its timely delivery.
XVII



SECTION 1:
PROCESS FRAMEWORK
COASTAL AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GUINEA BISSAU



PROCESS FRAMEWORK
COASTAL AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GUINEA BISSAU
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The Coastal and Biodiversity Management project (CBM) will put in place natural
resource management schemes in and around protected conservation areas and
reserved fishing zones, and will help address potential threats from petroleum
exploration and industrial fishing. To these ends, CBM will:
o  develop an institutional framework (Instituto de Biodiversidad et das
Areas Protegidas [IBAP]) to implement national policies and strategies
for the management of biodiversity and protected areas;
o  provide catalytic support for a sustainable financing mechanism (the
Foundation) to provide in-country funding for biodiversity conservation
and management;
o  promote conservation and sustainable use of natural resources at the
local level through the implementation of a 'sustainable development fund
(Fundo de Iniciativas Ambientais Locais; FIAL);
o  support the environmental impact assessment process and ensure that
environmental and social concerns are integrated into development
activities; and,
o  support the coordination and management structures for project
implementation by financing a small Project Management Unit (PMU)
within IBAP that will be responsible for multi-institutional coordination and
for monitoring and evaluating project activities.
2.    Implementation of the CBM project will necessarily involve restriction of access to
natural resources in and around the national parks and legally protected areas. The
Government of Guinea Bissau has therefore developed this Process Framework (PF) in
order to define the process through with populations living in and around these parks
and protected areas will participate integrally in the definition of restrictions, the
assessment of the impact of any possible restrictions, the determination of remedial
measures to redress those impacts on segments of the local population, and the
resolution of any grievances or conflicts, as well as the definition and implementation of
a monitoring program to assess the adequacy of project activities.
3.    This Process Framework takes up each of these considerations in turn. Section
11, Project Description, describes the project activities that may result in new or more
stringent restrictions on access to natural resources, and describes the process through
which potentially displaced persons participate in project design. Section 111, Legal and
Administrative Framework, outlines the legal and administrative context in which the
project will be implemented. Section IV, Eligibility Criteria, defines the eligibility criteria
for people's participation in the identification of potential impacts, the assessment the
significance of the impacts, and determination of necessary mitigating or compensating
measures. Section V, Remedial Measures, lays out the methods and procedures by
which communities will identify and choose potential mitigating or compensating
measures provided to those adversely affected, and procedures by which adversely
affected community members will decide on the options available to them. Section VI,
2



Grievance Resolution Measures, defines the process for resolving disputes relating to
resource use restrictions that may arise between or among affected communities, and
with grievances that may arise from members of communities who are dissatisfied with
the eligibility criteria, community measures, or their implementation. Section VII,
Monitoring Arrangements, reviews the arrangements for participatory monitoring of
project activities as they relate to impacts on persons within the project area, and for
monitoring the effectiveness of the measures taken to improve, or at a minimum restore,
incomes and living standards.
4.    This Process Framework is premised on the design of the Coastal and
Biodiversity Management Project at this time (February 2004). Any change in project
design that significantly affects the organization or operation of CBM, particularly with
regard to the nature and manner of restrictions on access to use natural resources, may
require revision of parts of this PF.
II.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5.    This section describes the project activities that may result in new or more
stringent restrictions on access to natural resources, and describes the process through
which potentially displaced persons participate in project design. CBM holds that
conservation and capacity building can succeed only with the integral participation and
collaboration of local populations. Thus local participation is the sine qua non of project
implementation (Sections IV, V, VI, and VII, below), and no restrictions can be
implemented without the full accord and cooperation of the communities involved.
A.    PROJECT COMPONENTS
6.    The sustainable management of protected areas, as well as the conservation of
threatened species, requires both institutional strengthening (e.g., IBAP, INA) and more
effective implementation of existing activities for biodiversity conservation at the national,
regional and local levels.
i. IBAP and the Conservation Foundation
7.    The administratively and financially autonomous Institute for Biodiversity and
Protected Areas (IBAP) will be mandated by the Government to implement national
policies and strategies for biodiversity conservation and protected areas management.
(The long-term financial sustainability of IBAP will be assured through the creation of a
Conservation Foundation, a mechanism to provide in-country funding for biodiversity
conservation and management of protected areas in Guinea-Bissau's coastal areas.
CBM will provide catalytic support for the Foundation.)
8.    CBM supports the gradual integration of existing park management projects into
a coordinated program of activities to be overseen by IBAP. Reinforcing the
decentralized participatory approach to protected areas management specified in the
Protected Areas Framework Law, project activities will be overseen by IBAP and
implemented in partnership with local government officials, the communities, the private
sector and international, national and local NGOs.
3



ii. Community-managed Development Projects
9.    Community managed sustainable biodiversity initiatives will be financed through
a micro-grant fund, Fundo de Iniciatives Ambientais Locais (FIAL). FIAL will provide
grants of up to an estimated $10,000 in support of specific community-based micro-
projects that can be linked to project objectives. Based on prior national experience and
conservation and poverty reduction criteria, four priority themes for intervention have
been tentatively identified: food security, artisanal fishing, palm exploitation, and
renewable energy. Community members, particularly women and other vulnerable
groups, could access small-scale micro-grants through the fund. Proposals for FIAL
financing will be expected to meet eligibility criteria such as compatibility with
management objectives of the protected area, technical feasibility, cost effectiveness,
ecological, economic and social and environmental safeguards and sustainability, and
demonstrated community commitment and management capacity. Specific interventions
will be identified through participatory processes involving the communities and resource
users themselves, facilitated by local non-governmental organizations and community
associations. CBM provides for the costs of outreach activities by facilitators (local
government representatives, NGOs and park staff, and community association leaders),
including awareness raising and extension services (meetings, pilot activity
demonstrations, agro-ecological assessments, dissemination of lessons learned, study
tours, etc). It will fund technical support to interested communities and resource-user
associations, for example, participatory diagnosis, assistance in preparation and
implementation of micro-project proposals, management of community-development
funds.
10.   In addition, CBM will develop and test new management approach to Reserved
Fishing Zones, where fishing zones are governed by special regulations approved by
local communities. Enforcement of management regulations and surveillance will be
designed and implemented with local stakeholders, in partnership with the extension
service of the government's agency for fishers. This pilot approach is expected to
facilitate ownership of local stakeholders over national coastal resource and to provide
incentives for protection of fish nursing and breeding grounds, including mangroves.
Specifically, the project will fund biological and socioeconomic studies required to
establish regulations for the Reserved Fishing Zones, including support for the public
consultation processes. Preparation and implementation of participatory surveillance
plans to enforce regulations will likewise be developed in partnerships between public
and private agencies, and local communities. Public awareness campaigns to promote
responsible fishing practices, following FAO responsible fishing guidelines, will also be
carried out.
iii. Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
11.   CBM will support the development, adoption, dissemination and implementation
of environmental impact assessment (EIA) regulations and procedures, and capacity
building for EIA review and monitoring of compliance. The project will support evaluation
of environmental and social impacts of industrial fisheries and proposed offshore
petroleum development, including organization of public hearings and other consultative
mechanisms. In addition, CBM will support revision of national procedures to facilitate
mainstreaming environmental law to meet international commitments to biodiversity
related international conventions (e.g., Biodiversity, Ramsar, CITES).
4



iv.   Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
12.   Finally, CBM will finance the establishment and operation of a small Project
Management Unit within IBAP. It will also fund the operation of a steering committee
and a consultative committee and implement the monitoring and evaluation, including
periodic independent evaluations of the project.
B.    PROJECT COMPONENTS RESTRICTING ACCESS TO NATURAL RESOURCES
13.   CBM may engender restriction of access to natural resources in three ways.
First, enactment of additional legislation could restrict the access of local populations to
natural resources in conservation areas. Second, enforcement of existing regulations
may effectively limit resource use by local populations. And, third, the communities
themselves may decide to limit resource use in specific ways.
14.   The major local impact on resource use, at least in the short term, will likely come
from community-based decisions about restrictions on resource use in both the
conservation areas and the neighboring buffer zones (Component 2). More effective
enforcement of existing regulations may be considered part of this local decision-making
process.
15.    CBM will focus on institutional strengthening and greater implementation
effectiveness in four existing and three proposed protected areas -- the National Park of
Orango, and the two associated National Marine Parks of Joao Vieira-Poilao and of
Orango, the Natural Park of Cufada Lagoon and the Rio Grande de Buba, the Natural
Mangroves Park at Cacheu-- and the one proposed park at Mata de Cantanhez, as well
as the proposed marine park at Formosa.1 In addition, CBM will pioneer community
managed fishing reserves. IBAP will coordinate these, and other activities, in order to
preserve and conserve the national environmental heritage. In this, IBAP will work in
partnership with local communities and other organizations to implement the project, and
will have stewardship over the monitoring of the activities.
16.   The impacts of restricting resource use will depend upon the extent to which
particular groups already use the resources, the types of other economic activities these
groups currently engage in, as well as other social factors such as gender and national
origin. Table 1 (below) presents the conservation areas where CBM will work, the
estimated population in and around each park, and the uses of natural resources that
groups in each area make of the reserve.
17.   Overall, most parks are used for a range of economic activities. There are
various crops raised in the park areas, including rice, beans, millet, and vegetables.
' The National Park of Orango, the National Marine Parks of Joao Veiera-Poilao and of Orango,
as well as the proposed marine reserve at Formosa, are all located in the Bijagos archipelago, in
the heart of the Bolama-Bijagos biosphere reserve. Cufada Lagoon et the Rio Grande de Buba
Natural Park is in central Guinea Bissau; Cufada Lagoon is classified as a Ramsar site. Cacheu
Natural Mangrove Park is in northwestern Guinea-Bissau. And, the proposed Cantanhez Park
(status undetermined as yet) is in southwestern Guinea-Bissau on the border with Guinee-
Conakry.
5



Several forms of agricultural production technology are practiced, from slash-and-burn
(or shifting) agriculture to diked fields in mangrove areas. In addition, several groups
engage in tree cultivation (e.g., oil palms, cashew), herding (e.g., pigs, goats), and
poultry raising. Fishing is an important activity in many areas, and women in some
groups practice particular forms of fish collection. People also gather shellfish, such as
oysters and crabs for sale in the cities, as well as shells for lime. There is some turtle
hunting and turtle-egg collection. Men also hunt many animals for meat, or capture birds
live for sale to urban customers.
18.   This overall picture must be broken down to its constituent pieces because a
number of different ethnic groups live in or around each park, and, typically, each group
specializes or engages predominantly in one or more activities.



Table 1:
Park Legal Status,
Population Resident in and around Reserve Area, and
Natural Resource Use in Each Area
Resident Population        Natural Resource Uses
(Census year)
Orango National Park     2,268 (2002)             Agriculture: vegetable plots, dryland
(268 kM2)                (about a quarter--21 of 81-  rice (1,206 ha) and recessional rice
Est. 2002                of the islands are       (17 ha).;
inhabited)               Forest products: oil palm, fruit
Island complex with five                          collection;
principle islands: Orango                         Shell collection (lime);
(16,306 ha), Orangozinho                          Fishing
(4,600 ha), Meneque (1,803                        Mangrove wood collection (to
has), Canogo (1,913 ha),                          process fish)
and Imbone (1,931 ha.)                            Hunting
Sacred forest reserves (at least two
on each island, used for initiative
ceremonies)
Joao Vieira-Poilao National  "aucune population ne  Rice production and other cereals
Marine Park              reside de facon          (1733 ha; slash-and-burn)
(500km2)                 permanente sur le territoire  Palm oil
Est. 2001                de ce parc. Ce sont les  Fishing;
Southeast of Bijagos     habitants des villages   Turtle fishing
archipelago, defined as a 5- situes sur l'ile de  Turtle egg collection
10 km band around several  Canhabaque qui sont les  Bird collection (parrots);
unihabitaed islands; central  proprietaires traditionnels
zone of the Bolama Bijagos  de ces iles." (ESIA, p. 16)  Sacred sites
Biosphere Reserve
('protection integrale)
Orango National Marine
Park
Within Bolama-Bijagos
Biosphere Reserve
Formosa Marine Reserve
(Proposed)
Within Bolama-Bijagos
Biosphere Reserve
7



Cufada Lakes et le Rio   7,000 (est. 2004)        Rice cultivation (Beafada, Balanta
Grande de Buba Natural   3,500 (census est. 1997)  [diked mangroves])
Park                                              Rainfed Agriculture: Peul ;);
Est. 2002                "La densite de population  Millet, beans (Beafada)
est de 9,6 habitants au  Cashew nuts
(southern Guinea Bissau;  kilometer carre" (ESIA, p.  Palm nuts (local women hire outside
park has three fresh-water  19)                   Manjaco laborers to collect the nuts
lakes; Lake Cufada is                            and then process them)
classified as a Ramsar site)                      Fishing (practiced by every group;
Peul fish in Cafuda Lagoon)
Hunting (domestic consumption and
for sale in nearby cities)
Cacheu Natural Mangrove  7,120 inhabitants (1991) in  Rice (both slash-and-burn, and diked
Park                     northern sector;         mangrove fields); millet, peanuts,
Est.2002                 830 inhabitants in southern  manioc;
sector (Sectors defined by  Domestic animals (goats, pigs,
Cacheu River)            poultry);
Forest products (40 foodstuffs)
Mangrove (fuelwood, construction,
heating, fish smoking, charcoal)
Other firewood (17 species)
Musical instruments (35 species)
Honey collection
Medicinal herbs (105 from forest)
Fishing (all ethnic groups;
Senegalese in the northern sector)
Shellfish collection (oyster collection
a specialy of Baiote women; crab;
other shellfish)
Hunting (gun and bow-and-arrow)
Sacred sites
Cantanhez Park           20,000 inhabitants (1991) in Farming
(Proposed National Park)  region (p. 22)          Livestock
Fishing (Guineans in estuary)
(Tombali region, in the                           Mangrove cutting
southwest;                                       (Other uses not specified)
Catanhez forest protected
as a hunting reserve, by
decree, in 1980)
19.   Table 2 presents the ethnic composition of the population around each park, and
outlines in part the social organization and economic practices of each group, as
relevant. The ethnic composition of each area is dynamic. Orango National Park was
exclusively inhabited by Bijagos until about 1947, when some Mandingo and Serrer
fishermen settled there. Similarly, the proposed Catanhez Park is home to several



important groups, the Nalus, who are native to the area, the Fula, who came in the 1 gth
Century, the Balante who came from elsewhere in Bissau in the 20th Century, and today
a number of other groups that have moved into the area since Independence in 1974
(Djacanca, Tanda, Pepeis, Manjaco, Bijago).
20.   Each group tends to have its own traditional economic specialization, though
there is a great deal of diversification in the economy. Bijago are fishermen and farmers;
Mandingo and Serrer tend to be mostly fishermen. Fula are traditionally herders and
farmers; the Sosso, who originated in Guinea, cultivate trees; the Balante develop rice
fields in mangrove areas. The Cobiana and Manjaco people in Cacheu National Park
are mostly farmers, but other groups depend more on fishing. Moreover, there is gender
specialization in economic production. Baiote women, for example, collect oysters,
crabs and other shellfish. In other groups, women and children harvest and process
cashew nuts. Such economic specialization is important because restrictions on access
to particular natural resources would tend to affect particular ethnic groups, and
segments within those groups, more than other groups who do not depend as much on
those resources.
Table 2:
Economic and Social Organization of
Ethnic Groups Residing
in or around Parks and Reserve Areas in CBM
Ethnic              Economic and Social Organization
Composition of
Resident
Population
Orango National Park  Bijag6s (95%)    o 3 Grands Royaumes (Orango, Bubaque,
Canhabaque)
o  Grands Rois today exercise administrative and
religious power over villages
o  Traditional Chiefs(with Kings) today allocated
Beafada             land
Mandingo
Serrer (Senegal)
and other groups
Joao Vieira Poilao    Uninhabited      o All villages belong to the same clan
National Marine Park  (however certain  o  Resource use is limited by 'drastic' traditional
islands are         rules
traditional       o  Cultivation of cereals for ritual use (fanado,
property)            enthronement of traditional chiefs)
Orango National
Marine Park
Formosa marine
reserve (proposed)



Cufada Lagoon and    Beafada
Rio Grande de Buba   Fula (Peul)
Natural Park         Balanta
Pepel            o   Pepel: Fishermen
Mandinga
Manjaco
Cacheu Natural       Northern section
Mangrove Park        (7,120 inhabitants
in 27 villages)
Baiote           o  Baiote women fish with circular nets; collect
oysters, crabs and other shellfish
Balanta
Bahum
Cobiana
Felupe
Manjaco
Southern Section
(830 inhabitants in
14 villages)
Cobiana
Manjaco
Papeis (2 villages:  o  Papeis: commercial fishing
one with 1 family
and one with 2
families)
Cantanhez Park       20,000 people in
region
Fula (Peul; 2,000)  Fula: herders and farmers
Sosso            Sosso: tree cultivation (banana, kola, orange)
Balanta          Balante: rice cultivation in saline soils (mangrove)
Nalus (2,000)    Nalus: original group; slash-and-burn farming;
animist religion; use some 200 forest products
Djacana          Post-1974 immigrants
Tandas            Post-1974 immigrants
Papeis            Post-1974 immigrants
Manjaco          Post-1 974 immigrants
Bijag6s          Post-1 974 immigrants
Ill.  LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
21.   This section outlines the legal and administrative context in which the project will
be implemented.
A.    International Conventions
22.   Guinea-Bissau adheres to several international conventions. RAMSAR is the
most important international agreement nationally because it led to the establishment of
10



the UNESCO biosphere reserve in the Bijagos archipelago. In addition, the Government
of Guinea-Bissau subscribes to Rio 84 (Agenda 21), and has signed, but not ratified,
CITES. Guinea-Bissau has also signed the international agreements on persistent
organic pollutants (Bonn, Montreal, and Stockholm). Despite the existence of legislation
pertaining to the conservation of biodiversity, their implementation remains limited
across the country.
23.    In 2000, GoGB signed the Convention d'Abidjan, which establishes regional
cooperation for maritime and coastal management. (The Nairobi Convention of the
same year is the parallel agreement for East African coastal states.)
B.     NATIONAL LEGISLATION
i.     Decree-Law No. 3/97.
24.    Decree-Law No. 3/97, published in the official Bulletin (no. 21, 26 May 1997), is
the controlling legislation for protected areas in Guinea-Bissau. The Decree-law
establishes three overarching objectives for protected areas: 1) conservation and
preservation of natural areas; 2) research and the acquisition of scientific and traditional
knowledge about the environment in general , with particular emphasis on traditional
practices that respect the environment; and 3) support and promotion of sustainable
usage of the resources with the aim of improving the conditions of life and well-being of
local populations.
25.    The Decree-Law No. 3/97 recognizes the importance of balancing ecological
conservation and local economic development2, and emphasizes the participation of
local populations in this balanced process3 so that populations are not removed
unnecessarily from protected areas. Nevertheless, Decree-Law No. 3/97 does
recognize the necessity, in some cases, of involuntary resettlement: "Considering the
demographic condition of the country and the problematique of creating protected
natural areas, exclusively dedicated to the conservation of nature, where populations
may be forced to withdraw from the area in question" (Preamble, Para 2).4
26.    The Decree Law (Article 3) recognizes five categories of protected area: National
Park, Natural Park, Environmentally Sensitive Perimeters, Ecological Sanctuaries, and
Sacred Forests. Each type of conservation is defined as follows
2 Preamble, Para. 3: "Considerando que as areas protegidas da Guin&-Bissau devem ter como objectivos a
conserva,co dos ecossistemas e o desenvolvimento economico, cuja contribui,ao a econ6mia do pais nao
deve ser restritra as receitas provenientes do turismo, mas tambem a explora,co duravel dos recursos
naturais das areas."
3 Preamble, Para. 5, "Considerando ainda, que a garantia dos interesses das populac6es residentes que por
consequencia estao envolvidas na consrevacao dos ecossistemas em questao, e salvaguardada atraves de
um processo participativo de delimita,co, cria,co e gestao de uma area protegida."
4 The original text reads: "Considerando a condi,co demografica do pais e a problematica de se criarem
espacos naturais protegidos, exclusivamente afectados a conserva,co da natureza, onde as popula,6es sao
for,adas a se retirar da area em questao."
5 Article 3, Classification and Definition, reads as follows:
"1. As dreas protegias poder ser classificadas e definidas como:
a) Parques nacionais sao 6reas destinadas a protec,ao da integridade ecol6gica dos seus
ecossisgtemas para as geracoes presente e futures, excluindo a explorac,o ou ocupa,co



o   National Parks are areas destined for the protection of the ecological integrity of
ecosystems for present and future generations, therefore excluding exploration
or occupation inadequate to the objectives of conservation in the area, and
offering the opportunity for scientific, educational and recreational visits, as long
as these activities conform with the usage and customs of resident populations;
o   Natural Parks, which are areas where the interaction between the biological
populations creates an exceptional character, with esthetic, ecological, or cultural
values of recognized interest, having a high biological diversity. Safeguarding
the integrity of this traditional interaction is the basic aim of these conservation
areas.
o   Environmentally Sensitive Areas are designated to protect and maintain
biodiversity over the long term and to promote sustainable use of the natural
resources there in order to meet the needs of resident populations
o   Ecological Sanctuaries are areas managed for the protect and maintenaince of
essential habitats for important flora or fauna, including migratory animals
o   Sacred Forests are natural areas designated exclusively for traditional religious
ceremonial use as determined by local custom.
27.     The Decree-Law requires a socio-economic impact study that describes the
number and location of existing villages within the project area (Article 6), along with an
assessment of the benefits and disadvantages creation of the park will cause locally.
The local communities' agreement with the park zonation must be appended to the act
declaring the park6.
inadequada aos objectivos da area, e oferecendo a oportunidade de visitas cientificas,
educacionais e recreativas, sendo as mesmas compativeis com o use e costumes das
popula,ces residents;
b) Parques naturais sao areas onde a interacc,o das popula,ces e o seu meio ambiente
constitui um caracter excepcional, com valores esteticos, ecol6gicos e culturais de
reconhecido interesse, apresentando ainda uma alta diversidade biol6gica. Salvaguardar
a integridade dessa interac,ao tradicional e indispensavel a protec,iio, manutencao e
evoluqco dessas areas;
c) Perimetros de Meio Ambiente Sensivel sao areas destinadas a protec,co e manuten,co da
biodiv ersidade a longo prazo e ao amesmo tempo promovendo a ultiliza,co duravel dos
seus recursos naturais para atender as necessidades das comunidades residenes.
d) Santuarious ecol6gicos sao areas sujeitas a uma gestao voltada a protec,co e manutenc,o
de habitates essenciais a flora de importancia ou a fauna, nomeademente a migratoria;
e) Florestas sagradas sao espa,os naturais destinados exclusivament a manifesta,ces
tradicionais de cunho cultural e religioso onde a gestao dos seus recursos naturais e
determinada peolos usos e costumes de comunidade que as utilizam.
2. Uma area protegia pode ainda ter sua classifica,cao e definiqco decorrente de conven,ao, acordo
ou tratado internacional."
6 Article 6 states: "O projecto de decreto relativo a classificacao de um parque sera acompanhado dos
seguintes documentos:
a) Uma nota justificativa de classifica,ao,...
b) Um estudo de impacto s6cio-econ6mico, descrevendo o nurmero e a localiza,co das
comunidades estabelecidas nos limites do projecto, contendo uma avala,co dos
inconvenientes e das vantagens que a implementa,ao do parque podera acarretar, e caso for
nesessario, as medidass compensat6rias previstas para atenuar ou compensar os
inconvenientess reconhecidos'
12



28.    The Decree Law also requires that each protected area be zoned in order to
specify the types of use (more or less restrictive, more or less specialized) possible in
each area of the reserve (Article 23). Preservation zones allow only visits, scientific
studies, fishing by resident populations, and other necessary work.7 Thus, each
protected area should have one or more zones of natural preservation and other zones
that allow controlled exploitation. Vegetal cover at the park boundary, along the coast
line, in the estuaries, lakes and rivers are given particular emphasis for conservation
measures. Other areas are designated for 'controlled exploitation' in a sustainable
manner for resident communities. In the contrary case, the Park Director, on his
initiative, or on the recommendation of the management committee may: regulate
specific activities, require prior consent to carry out specific activities, or remove a
degraded area from exploitation. These new rules may be applied through the park area
or only to parts of it.8
29.     Natural Parks and Ecological Sanctuaries benefit from the same basic articles as
National Parks. Sacred forests, used for religious purposes, are also protected, and
their status is recognized formally by the State (Article 38).
30.     Importantly, the Loi-Cadre mandates a decentralized participatory approach in
the definition (Section 7)9 and the management of protected areas (Articles 18-21). The
Management Committee for each park (Article 18) is composed of: the Park Director,
who presides over all meetings; representatives of communities resident in the park,
representatives of the relevant government agencies, and representatives of legally
constituted agencies who support the aims and objectives of the park. Park
Management Committees may have up to 26 members, of which one-half must be
members of resident communities (Article 18, Section 2). (Non-resident committee
members are appointed for a five-year term, which may be renewed.) The major charge
of the Management Committee is the definition of the internal rules governing activities
in that park.
c) Um relatorio sobre a concerta,co com as comunidades concernentes relativo a zonagem,
regulamentaq6es e compensaq6es, ao qual sera anexada as actas das reuni6es ou outras pecas
justificativas nas condi,6es previstas ..."
7 Article 24 states: "Nas zonas de preservac,o natural nao 6 permitida nenhuma obra ou instalac,ao ou
qualquer outra actividada, a execepc,o de:
a) Visitas publicas, nas condiaes previstas no relulamento interno do parque;
b) Possibilidade de colheitas ou de pescas reconhecidas pelo regulamento interno do parque em
beneficio exclusivo das comunidades residents do parque;
c) Observa,ces cientificas, estudos ou medidas de gestao necessaries aos objectivos de
conserva,co, devidament autorizadas pelo Director do parque;
d) Obras necessaries para os objectivos previstos nas alineas anteriores."
8 Article 29 states that the Park Director of the Management Council may:
a) Regulamentar ou propor regulamentac,o sobre certas actividades e tecnologia que devem ser
empregues;
b) Requerer autoriza,co previa para o exercicio de certas actividades, assim como establecer
quotas.
c) Fechar provisoriamente um sector que tenha sofrido degrada,co devido a exploracao e
coloca-lo em regenera,ao."
9 "A proposta de cria,co de um parque e da sua zonagem sera formulado em concerta,ao com as
comunidades locais concernents." (Article 7).
13



ii. Other Laws
a.     Artisanal Fisheries Law.
31.    Under the Decree Law No. 4/94, which approved the General Fishing Law, the
Minister of Fisheries, in 1997, promulgated Decree No. 3/1 1;97 concerning artisanal
fisheries. Artisanal fishing is defined as fishing in rivers, estuaries, island areas or in the
territorial sea from boats under 18 meters in length, powered by paddles, sails or motors
under 60 horsepower and having ice boxes for fish preservation. Decree No 3/11/97
permits declaration of reserve areas where priority can be given through licenses to
specific communities or forbidden because of the ecological characteristics of the area.
The decree establishes a consultative process in order to determine critical areas (e.g.,
fish and turtle breeding and maturation areas) where artisanal fishing needs to be
regulated in order to ensure future stocks. The decree also allows Government to
negotiate with neighboring countries over the rights of their nationals to fish in the waters
of Guinea-Bissau.
b. Forestry Law
32.    The Forestry Law of 2004 provides the guidelines for sustainable management of
the forested areas that cover over half of the national territory. The stated objective of
the law is to provide for production for export and domestic consumption that maintains
the hydrological regime and provides a defense against erosion. Essentially, the law
vests authority for the management of forested areas with the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry, Livestock and Wild Game, which may grant logging licenses with stipulations
for reforestation. The law also enables the Ministry to institute regulations on the
collection of forest products by local populations, although collection permits will be
granted at no charge.10 Land that has been declared a park area, however, is governed
by the Decree-Law on Protected Areas (above).
c. Hunting Law
33.    The Hunting Law of 2004 provides the basis for regulations to manage wildlife
within the national territory. In consequence, hunters, other than local people, must
obtain licenses in order to hunt legally. Local populations may hunt as long as the
activity is for domestic consumption rather than commercial purposes and is done with
traditional hunting equipment authorized by the Department of Forestry and Hunting."
As is the case with the Forestry Law, the Decree Law on Protected Areas has
precedence over the Hunting Law, so that no hunting is allowed in core park areas.
10 Article 13 states "Os diretos de uso e de colheita nas florestas e terrenos de aptidao florestal poderao ser
objecto de sidposic,es regulamentares e serao concedidos a titulo gratuito nos casos de auto-consumo das
tabancas."
1 Article 6 states: "S6 e permetido o exercicio de ca,a aos individuos detentores de carta de cacador,
licenca de ca,a e emais documentos legalmente exigidos, a excepg5o de caca de autosubsistencia exercida,
sem finalidade lucrative, pela comunidade local e com o emprego de instrumentos tradicionais autorizados
pela DGFC."
14



d.    Land Law No. 5/98 (April 23)
34.   The Land Law No. 5/98 vests all land in the state. The law specifically notes the
existence of protected areas (Article 7), and the possibility of private use of park land not
zoned for "integral" protection (i.e., the central or core areas). Outside the park and
other areas, land may be held by communities collectively (Article 44) or by individuals
(Articles 29-37).
iii.    Nucleo das Areas Protegidas (NAPs).
35.   With the assistance of IUCN and the ministries and general directorates
concerned, a national coordinating structure, the Nucleo das Areas Protegidas (NAPs)
has been established.
36.   The creation of the administratively and financially autonomous IBAP requires
the preparation of legal statues for IBAP, amendment of the Protected Areas Framework
Law and other existing legislation to reflect IBAP's roles and responsibilities,
identification and establishment of IBAP's Board, and design of institutional and
governance structures.
IV.   ELEGIBILITY CRITERIA
37.   This section defines the eligibility criteria for people's participation in the
identification of potential impacts, the assessment the significance of the impacts, and
determination of necessary mitigating or compensating measures.
38.   Communities living in or around protected areas or in the Biosphere Reserve are
eligible to participate in the identification of potential impacts, the assessment of their
consequences and the determination of mitigating measures, as well as the monitoring
program.
39.   CBM envisions no involuntary resettlement as an unavoidable outcome of its
activities, even though people presently live within the core areas (zona central) of each
or the parks and other people live in areas zoned for habitation that are completely
encircled by core areas where all use of natural resources, except fishing, is proscribed.
For these reasons, CBM, as part of its monitoring system (below, Section VII) will
undertake, in the first six months of the project, a census of all population within the park
areas and will review the current zonation of each park in order to ensure that no
populations reside within reserve areas or are completely encircled by reserve areas.
A.    DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE POPULATIONS
i.    Resident Populations.
40.   Any community or individual established permanently that exercises either
customary or legal use-rights within a protected area or in the legally defined buffer zone
around a protected area, constitutes a resident population eligible to participate in the
CBM project. Usually, the communities in or near the buffer zone around protected
areas constitute the majority of the eligible resident population. Nonetheless, individuals
resident in other, more distant villages and localities who exercise use rights in or
15



around the protected areas before the initiation of discussion for the CBM project also
constitute resident populations.
41.    A protected area is any demarcated zone set aside by national or local legislation
for the specific purpose of natural resource conservation. In CBM, protected area
includes both terrestrial reserves, such as national and natural parks, as well as marine
parks.
42.    The eligible population may be represented, in whole or in part, by: local
communities, resource-user groups and associations, local non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), and other such bodies.12
ii. Seasonal Populations.
43.    Any community or individual with established customary or legal rights to
seasonal use of natural resources within or around a legally defined protected area also
constitutes a resident population eligible to participate in the CBM project. Seasonal use
rights may be exercised annually, during certain months of the year, or they may be
exercised aperiodically, i.e., during certain periods of need, such as drought.
B.     PARTICIPATION OF ELIGIBLE POPULATIONS
44.    Both resident and seasonal populations are fully entitled to participate integrally
and meaningfully in the determination of restrictions on natural resource use, the
assessment of the impact of such restrictions, the definition of remedial measures to
redress those impacts, and the monitoring of the remedial measures to ensure that all
persons affected are assisted to restore their previous standard of living in as short a
period of time as possible.
45.    The Decree-Law no. 3/97 provides the formal structure for participatory park
management. According to this law, a Governing Council of 26 members will be
constituted for each park. The Council is composed of 13 government officers named in
the legislation (e.g., Parks, Forest, Fisheries), and 13 representatives of the local
populations. Since the number of local representatives would rarely coincide with the
number of local villages, the villages are regrouped according to administrative and
ethnic boundaries. As a result, majority groups tend to be well represented while
minority groups, and women, tend to be underrepresented in the formal governing
council.
46.    Since people in rural communities and towns make different use of the resources
available, those people most directly concerned by restriction of access to specific
resources will have the greatest voice in the assessment of the impacts of proposed
restrictions, the determination of remedial measures to replace their lost income or
resources, and the monitoring of those mitigative measures13. No restriction or remedial
12 See Etude d'impact environnemental et social, September 2003, p.9.
13 For example, those who collect wood in the forest will play a larger role in the definition of restrictions
of wood collection, the determination of remedial measures and their monitoring. Similarly, shell-fish
collectors, herders, charcoal makers, and all other resource users will have similar priority in the
16



measure may be adopted or implemented without the express written consent of those
who are most directly concerned.
47.   For this reason, and to facilitate local consideration of the issues involved,
determination of restrictions (that is to say, of the norms regulating use of natural
resources) will entail three progressive phases: first, focus groups with specific resource
users in each community (e.g., fishermen, shellfish collectors, mangrove area rice
cultivators, palm cultivators); second, visits by selected village leaders to villages in other
parks that are engaged in the same process; and third, community meetings to
harmonize the assessment of resource use by the community. The meetings will be
facilitated by an intermediary organization experienced in the area, such as an NGO,
under contract to IBAP.
48.   The first phase of the consultative process, focus groups organized by productive
role, is critical to the ultimate success of harmonious determination of restrictions on
natural resource use. Only the producers themselves have intimate knowledge of the
potentialities and difficulties that they face. Organizing focus groups defined by
productive role provides the opportunity for producers of the same commodity to come
together and discuss their experience and aspirations. This step is critically important
because minority views (e.g., palm oil producers, shellfish collectors) might not receive
the emphasis due them in a general community meeting where the majority of
participants are engaged in other activities, so that the minority occupations are of less
immediate concern to them. Focus groups organized by productive role also give
emphasis to women, for they are often specialized in certain activities that men do not
engage in. Since the gender specialization of labor varies among the different ethnic
groups, organizing focus groups according to production provides one means for
strengthening the voice of women in community deliberations throughout the project
area.
49.   The second phase of the consultative process, regional visits by local leaders,
provides an important cross-fertilization of ideas for people resident in different areas.
Local leaders, such as village chiefs, association officers, and village representatives,
chosen to represent the different productive activities in their area, can quickly assess
the situation in other areas and greatly appreciate the opportunity to confer with and
discuss potential norms and their consequences with fellow villagers in other areas.
Therefore, IBAP will sponsor inter-regional visits in order to enhance local decision-
making, and, not incidentally, in order to create a network of local participants throughout
the park system.
50.   The focus groups and inter-regional visits will culminate in community meetings
where the determination of restrictions on resource use will be determined. In outline,
each production group (i.e., focus group) will present its report to the community,
focusing on the existing productive base, trends in production in recent years, needs for
the future, and possibilities for implementing restrictions in a sustainable manner. The
community as a whole will then be responsible for harmonizing the various plans into a
coherent community management plan, using appropriate participatory techniques such
as matrix assessment.
determination of restrictions and remedial measures, as well as the assessment of the success of such
measures in restoring their livelihood.
17



51.   The discussions will be facilitated by an intermediary organization with
experience in the area, such as an NGO. The intermediary organization will provide, as
necessary, technical experts, who can advise on the utility of specific measures
proposed. Further, representatives of the Park Management Council (Conselho de
Gestao) may attend the sessions to help ensure that local decisions accord with the
management plan for the park. The decisions of the community meetings will be
recorded in triplicate, and copies kept by the community, by the facilitating organization
and by IBAP.
V.    REMEDIAL MEASURES
52.   This section lays out the methods and procedures by which communities will
identify and choose potential mitigating or compensating measures provided to those
adversely affected, and procedures by which adversely affected community members
will decide on the options available to them.
53.   A major component of CBM is community economic development based on the
sustainable utilization of natural resources. The establishment of the Fundo de
Iniciativas Ambientais Locais (FIAL) will finance micro-projects and conservation
activities proposed by the eligible populations. To this end, CBM will provide a fund of
managed by FIAL, to facilitate local participation in the project.
54.   FIAL will have two windows, one for community development and one for
mitigative measures necessitated by the collective determination of restrictions on
access to resources. Community development measures are those that benefit the
entire community, e.g., wells, boats, schools, clinics and other initiatives that are
available to everyone in the community. Mitigative measures, by contrast, are initiatives
that benefit only those people who lost access, in whole or in part, to a specific
resource. Moreover, since the purpose of the mitigative measure is to assist the
affected population to restore their livelihood, the measures must have a major income
restoration aim.
55.   FIAL will always give priority to funding income-restoration measures over
community development initiatives. This means, first, that half the FIAL fund will be
reserved for income-restoration and half, in principle, for community initiatives.
However, second, if in any year, the requests for financing income-restoration measures
exceed the budget available, those requests will be financed with funds that otherwise
would have been dedicated for community initiatives. FIAL may reallocate funds
dedicated for income-restoration to its community development window only if, in any
year, all income-restoration proposals have been funded and no additional proposals are
expected. The monitoring system (below) will specifically track the allocation and
sufficiency of funds for remedial measures every year.
56.   As has been described above in Section V-B, both the determination of
restrictions on access to natural resources and the definition of remedial measures will
be decided locally, with those people directly affected having a major voice, especially in
the determination of measures to restore income. Once the restrictions have been
decided collectively, definition of income-restoration measures may proceed in either of
several ways: all or some of the affected people may , as a group, suggest measures
that they reasonably believe would replace their lost income or asset; or individuals not
18



members of such a group may propose measures directly related to, and responding to,
their loss. Affected people may propose measures as a member of a group and as an
individual as long as the cumulative or total benefit does not exceed the average benefit
anticipated for all other people so affected in the locality.
57.    Because remedial measures will be determined locally, it is not possible or
appropriate to determine a fixed list of restrictions and remedial measures. It is,
nonetheless, possible and appropriate to provide a partial, illustrative list of restrictions
and measures that can serve as a jumping-off point for subsequent deliberations. Table
3 (p. 19) provides such a list of restrictions and possible remedial measures.
58.    Once the people directly affected, either in groups or individually, have decided
upon the appropriate income-restoration measures for them, the affected people will,
with the assistance of the facilitating NGO, prepare a concise proposal according to the
format developed by FIAL. FIAL will review and fund proposals as quickly as possible,
optimally within 30 days of receipt of the proposal, since productive enterprises are
extremely time sensitive. If an enterprise or initiative cannot be started quickly, the
window of opportunity may close, and an entire year may be lost before the initiative can
be begun.
59.    Project implementation and monitoring (below, Section VIl) are the responsibility
of the participating groups or individuals, with the assistance of the collaborating NGO.
FIAL will provide a concise monitoring form to report progress and difficulties quarterly,
and the collaborating NGO will provide training locally, not only in the correct application
of the funds and technical matters, but also in the aims of the monitoring activity and the
types of information to be reported.
V.     GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION PROCEDURES
60.    This section defines the process for resolving disputes relating to resource use
restrictions that may arise between or among affected communities, and with grievances
that may arise from members of communities who are dissatisfied with the eligibility
criteria, community measures, or their implementation.
61.    This section pertains to disputes among local populations resident in and around
reserve areas, regardless of nationality (e.g., Serrer, Sosso, Fula). Disputes between
foreign (i.e., non-resident) and local populations, for example, in marine reserves, cannot
be resolved extrajudicially, as is the predominant mechanism espoused in this Process
Framework. While it may be possible to resolve such issues through local negotiation in
some instances14, the majority of such cases will likely be referred to the courts for
resolution.
14 There are instances, particularly in the Orango National Park, where traditional chiefs have asked
foreign, non-resident fisherman to leave the area because they were abusing the resources in the area. In
some instance, these requests have been honored; in others, the police or the courts have had to intervene in
order to resolve the matter. While it is always preferable to try to resolve such matters locally, the context
of the dispute is such that official, administrative intervention may be the only viable option. Such cases
cannot be dealt with completely through the grievance resolution mechanism espoused in this PF.
19



Table 3:
Illustrative List of Restrictions and Possible Remedial Measures
Restriction       Affected Persons           Possible Remedial Measures
Agriculture-annual   Farmers               o   Allow harvest; provide alternative plots of
crops                                          same size and soil quality for agriculture
elsewhere
Agriculture - rice   Rice farmers          o   Allow harvest; provide alternative plots of
(mangrove areas)                              same size and soil quality for agriculture;
compensate labor for cost of opening new
field
o   Rehabilitate old perimeters; but reject
opening new ones
Agriculture-         Arboriculturists      o   Allow harvest; provide alternative land of
perennial crops                                equivalent size and soil quality for new
trees; reimburse value of future harvests
until new trees come into full production
o   Mango processing for preserves
o   Improved beehives (instead of felling
trees)
o   Improved palm oil presses (extraction now
often done by hand)
Fishing              Fishermen             o   Improved technologies (motors, nets) in
compensation for enforced fishing rules
Shellfish collection  Shellfish collectors  o  Processing techniques to assist in
preservation
Secondary Forest     Secondary Forest      o   Provide assistance to establish nurseries
Product Collection   Product Collectors       for production of secondary forest
(e.g., dye stuffs,                             products
medicines, vines)                          o   Food processing (e.g., wild fruit such as
fiol and faroba)
Animal Grazing in    Herders               o   Cattle: alternative grazing areas, if
Protected Area       Animal owners             available; tether grazing animals
o   Sheep and Goats: grazing methods
o   Pigs: improved sties and food
Wood collection      Wood collectors       o   Provide more fuel-efficient stoves
(women)
Fishermen and fish    o   Alternative preservative techniques (e.g.,
processors                solar drying units, salt)
Charcoal makers       o   Improved production techniques
20



62.    The grievance resolution process that is described below provides a general
framework for conflict resolution premised, first, on finding mutually satisfactory solutions
within the project framework and, then, failing that, within the local traditions and
authority of the community or communities involved. The coastal groups throughout
Guinea Bissau retain strong local, traditional leaders. Nevertheless, the specific details
of grievance resolution must be tailored to the traditions and customs of each group and
each area. Further, reliance on local systems of grievance resolution in no way
precludes the intervention of administrative, police, or juridical authorities in the exercise
of their stated powers. Where intense grievances between two ethnic groups arise, the
only solution may be the intervention of public authorities to decide upon the matter.15
63.    Optimally, grievances are resolved early on and at the local level. If local
resolution of a grievance is not possible at the project level, it may be referred to village
authorities for consideration. If it is still not possible to resolve the issue, the
complainant, whether an individual or a group, has the right to take the matter to court,
although, admittedly, this is a long and costly procedure.
64.    At the local level, the aggrieved party can bring his or her complaint to the
attention of a project official, the facilitating NGO, or village leader. Every effort will be
made at this level to resolve the matter. If the village facilitator cannot bring the matter
to resolution, he or she will refer it to the FIAL program manager. If after due
consultation and deliberation, the program manager finds it impossible to resolve the
matter, the issue will be taken up by the CBM project manager.
65.   If the matter cannot be resolved informally at the project level, the issue can be
raised with traditional local authorities. In the first instance, the PMU (i.e., IBAP or its
contracted NGO) can raise the matter with the deputy of the traditional chief, who will
convene the parties concerned and explore the grounds for mutually satisfactory
resolution. If the deputy cannot resolve the matter, he may refer the matter to the chief,
first informally, then, subsequently, if necessary, formally. In the latter case, the local
chief will pronounce the final resolution at the local level.
66.    Should the matter remain unresolved, the aggrieved party may take the matter to
court. In fact, at any point in this process, the complainant has the prerogative of filing a
court case, if he or she so wishes. However, it is incumbent on project officials to deal
as efficaciously as possible with all complaints over restriction on access to natural
resources since the aggrieved parties raise their complaints due to disagreement with
project initiatives.
VI.    MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
67.    This section reviews the arrangements for participatory monitoring of project
activities as they relate to impacts on persons within the project area, and for monitoring
5 Such situations are more likely to arise between two ethnic groups in different communities. Such a case
occurred recently in the Cacheu Natural Park area, when Fula tribesmen built a mosque on Fulupe land.
When the Fula refused to dismantle their mosque after a request fiom the Fulupe traditional chief, the
Fulupe took matters into their own hands. Ultimately, the administrator of the area had to decide the
matter, declaring construction of the mosque on Fulupe land without permission to be unacceptable.
21



the effectiveness of the measures taken to improve, or at a minimum restore, incomes
and living standards
68.    The IBAP PMU has primary authority for implementing a mechanism to monitor
and evaluate all project activities. The monitoring system will have three basic
objectives: 1) to ensure that no populations are dislocated from their present residences
by the economic impact of restrictions on natural resources; 2) to ensure that project-
affected people participate integrally in and benefit fully from the FIAL income-restoration
program; and, 3) to involve the local populations as fully as possible in the
implementation of the monitoring system.
A.    MONITORING INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT
69.    CBM is premised on the notion that local populations can continue to reside
within areas reserved for conservation as long as the populations use natural resources
in a sustainable manner for their own consumption. This position means that
populations can reside within the core areas of each of the parks.16 Whether all or some
of these communities can, in fact, remain within the core park areas remains to be
determined.
71.    Therefore, in the first six months of the project, CBM will institute a baseline
population census and, with the local populations concerned, review of the existing park
zonation in order to determine whether population currently within, or completely
encircled by, core zones can remain. If any community must move, the Resettlement
Policy Framework (Section 2) provides the guidelines for planning such an operation,
and a Resettlement Action Plan, with detailed compensation, economic rehabilitation
and monitoring program, will be presented to the PMU and the donors for approval.
72.    The census will provide the opportunity to enumerate the population by ethnic
group, productive economic activities (disaggregated by gender), and income or
domestic consumption value for each activity, Importantly, this census and socio-
economic survey will constitute a solid baseline of information about each individual in
the project areas for future monitoring. If there is reason to believe that, where there is
no involuntary resettlement, natural resource restrictions are a fundamental cause of
'spontaneous' relocation of people in core park areas, the census will be repeated every
other year in order to determine whether and if so how many people may have
emigrated from the area. In this case, the monitoring unit will implement tracer surveys
to find and interview the relocates about their reasons for leaving their home areas.
Should natural resource restrictions be a primary factor in the decision of any people to
move, CBM project management will implement a review of its program in order to
ensure that such involuntary relocation is no longer an outcome of its project activities,
16 The term "core area" usually denotes the area within the park boundaries, and the term 'buffer zone'
(zona tampon) the area adjacent to and abutting, but outside the boundaries, of a national park or reserve
area. According to the legislation in force today in Guinea Bissau, 'buffer zone' also and more usually
refers to areas within the boundaries of national and natural parks where resident local populations may
make use of the natural resources therein. (See Section IV-B-I, above, for the legal definition of a 'buffer
zone.') Thus there are both core and buffer areas within each park, as well as a buffer area around each
park.
22



and shall provide all necessary assistance to those persons who were inadvertently
relocated involuntarily.
B.    MONITORING INCOME-RESTORATION OF MICRO-PROJECTS
73.   Monitoring of the micro-project program will track both administrative and
substantive activities. As for administrative activities, the monitoring program will review,
each year, the number of proposals for remedial measures, the type of measures, and
their level of financing. The monitoring program will also track the proposals for
community-level measures, their type and level of funding. The concern here is that
remedial measures always receive priority attention in the context of the project.
74.   Monitoring of substantive activities will focus on the participatory nature of the
project of remedial measures, and the progress, to date, of the different activities.
Participatory monitoring will be used whenever possible, to create a sense of ownership
and to promote community understanding of project objectives. Impact indicators will be
developed in accordance with guidelines for GEF-financed projects, and will include both
biological/ecological and socio-economic parameters. (See Section VII-C, below.)
75.   Independent consultants, in consultation with the affected communities and CBM
project management, will develop a detailed monitoring and evaluation plan for
measuring project implementation progress and impact. This plan will clearly specify the
key indicators and data needs and sources, who will collect the data, and how frequently
for each component as well as for the project as a whole.
76.   Further, each annual monitoring report will append the list of community and
focus group meetings to define restrictions on natural resource use, determine remedial
measures, and define indicators to track income restoration. To facilitate this work, all
community meetings to consider restrictions on natural resource use, as well as the
impact assessment and remedial measures, will maintain a register that records all
persons present and their interest in the issue. The register, which will be kept both in
the community and by the project PMU, will be complemented by a detailed minutes of
each meeting.
C.    MONITORING ECOLOGICAL IMPACT OF NATURAL RESOURCE MEASURES
77.   Local monitoring of natural resource use and the ecological status of their area
will provide a useful complement to the formal monitoring system proposed above.
Local populations are already aware of what the restrictions are and how well they are
observed. Local populations are also able and willing to monitor the status of the natural
resources in their areas - and in doing so will be able to correlate the impact of the
restrictions with the improvement or degradation of their local resources.
78.   To this end, each community will define a map and other recording forms to
assess the present state of the ecosystem in their area at the outset of the project. The
community will assess the state of natural resources each year, e.g., the extension or
degradation of mangroves in their area, the number of shellfish of each type found in
each area, the number and size of fish caught over the year in each locality, the
presence or absence of economic trees. These specialized production assessments are
23



best undertaken by focus groups organized by production role, as was done initially for
the assessment of resources and the definition of restrictions and remedial measures.
Each production group will report to the community, in a general meeting facilitated by
the collaborating intermediary organization, on its findings and recommendations for
future action. The community will redefine its action plan for the coming year on the
basis of these specialized local reports.
79.   Further, and as an adjunct to this participatory monitoring component, IBAP will
ensure that every scientific investigation will include capable local people, not only in the
role of data collection but also in the role of data analysis. For example, biomass studies
in mangrove areas typically hire local staff to collect samples in designated areas.
These staff are also capable, with adequate training, of processing the samples and
carrying out the initial analyses. Local populations can also carry out inventories of flora
and fauna, including counts of shellfish and crustaceans that provide a good indication of
future stocks. Such integral participation of local populations in scientific studies not only
provides employment, it also provides a window, and a control, on the work of the
various scientists whose studies will constitute one basis for the definition of future
restrictions on natural resources. (See, for example, Section lI-A-ii, above.)
24



I
SECTION 2:
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
COASTAL AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GUINEA BISSAU
25



RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
COASTAL AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GUINEA BISSAU
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The Coastal and Biodiversity Management project (CBM) will put in place natural
resource management schemes in and around protected conservation areas and
reserved fishing zones, and will help address potential threats from petroleum
exploration and industrial fishing. To these ends, CBM will:
o develop an institutional framework (Instituto de Biodiversidad et das
Areas Protegidas [IBAP]) to implement national policies and strategies
for the management of biodiversity and protected areas;
o catalyze a sustainable financing mechanism (the Foundation) to provide
in-country funding for biodiversity conservation and management;
o  promote conservation and sustainable use of natural resources at the
local level through the implementation of a 'sustainable development fund
(Fundo de iniciativas Ambientais Locais; FIAL);
o  in accord with the aims and objectives of the Government, support the
environmental impact assessment process and ensure that environmental
and social concerns are integrated into development activities; and,
o support the coordination and management structures for project
implementation by financing a small Project Management Unit (PMU)
within IBAP that will be responsible for multi-institutional coordination and
for monitoring and evaluating project activities.
2. Implementation of this project may involve resettlement of some populations now
resident in core areas of the national and natural parks. The Government of Guinea
Bissau (GoGB) strongly prefers that communities resident in core areas of the parks
move voluntarily once necessary compensation, infrastructure and other assistance has
been provided. Nonetheless, GoGB also recognizes that, in limited instances,
communities may have to be relocated from environmentally important areas both for the
integrity of the parks and for the well-being of the people affected. GoGB has, therefore,
developed this Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) in order to define the process
through with populations living in core areas of parks will participate integrally in deciding
whether to relocate and where, and in the implementation and monitoring of any
resettlement operation.
3. This Resettlement Policy Framework accords with the legislation of Guinea Bissau
and follows the outline for Involuntary Resettlement in the World Bank Operational
Directive 4.12 (O.D. 4.12) Section II describes the project and identifies the project area.
Section III specifies the project components that give rise to resettlement, their zone of
impact, alternatives considered to avoid or minimize resettlement, and the mechanisms
to minimize resettlement during project implementation. Section IV states the main
objectives of the resettlement program.
26



4. Section V presents the socio-economic studies, including the census of residents,
their economy, the extent of loss, information on vulnerable groups, and provisions to
update information on the displaced people's livelihoods and standards of living at
regular intervals. Other baseline studies will cover: land tenure and transfer systems,
social organization in the affected communities, public infrastructure that will be lost, and
the social and cultural characteristics of the displaced communities (e.g., community
organizations, ritual groups, non-governmental organizations). Section VI analyzes the
legal framework, including the scope of the power of eminent domain and the nature of
compensation associated with it, applicable legal and administrative procedures, the
agencies responsible for land acquisition and resettlement, relevant other laws (including
customary and traditional law) governing land tenure and asset valuation, among other
matters, and provides an analysis of differences between the national legislation and
international standards.
5. Section VII defines the criteria of eligibility of displaced persons for compensation
and other resettlement assistance including relevant cut-off dates. Section Vill presents
the methodology used in the valuation of and compensation for losses. Section IX
describes the resettlement measures to assist each category of eligible displaced person
to achieve the objectives of the policy in a culturally acceptable manner. Section X
covers the selection and preparation of resettlement sites, as well as the relocation
process. Section Xl describes the plans to provide housing, infrastructure, and social
services. Section XII describes the boundaries of the relocation area, and an
assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposed resettlement measures.
6. Section XIII details the nature of community participation, including consultation,
decision-making roles, and institutionalized arrangements for communicating project-
affected persons' (PAPs) concerns to project authorities. Section XIV contains the
measures to mitigate the impact of resettlement on host communities. Section XV
describes the grievance resolution process. Section XVI sketches the implementation
schedule; Section XVII provides for effective monitoring and evaluation; and Section
XVIII estimates the costs of resettlement operations and their budgets.
7. This RPF pertains only to those situations where resident communities may have to
relocate, in whole or in part, from core areas of national or natural parks. (Marine
reserves, by their nature, have no resident populations of people.) The Process
Framework (Section 1, above) covers a broader set of circumstances, namely, where
resident communities in the parks, whether in core or in buffer areas, impose additional
restrictions on natural resource use within the park area. The RPF and PF together are
intended to provide guidelines for the management of legally defined conservation areas
by all parties concerned -- the local communities, the parks' management, government
agencies, NGOs, and the private sector.
II.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
8. The sustainable management of protected areas, as well as the conservation of
threatened species, requires both institutional strengthening (e.g., IBAP, INA) and more
effective implementation of existing activities for biodiversity conservation at the national,
regional and local levels.
27



A.    IBAP AND THE CONSERVATION FOUNDATION
9. The administratively and financially autonomous Institute for Biodiversity and
Protected Areas (IBAP) will be mandated by the Government to implement national
policies and strategies for biodiversity conservation and protected areas management.
(The long-term financial sustainability of IBAP will be assured through catalytic support
for the creation of a Conservation Foundation, a mechanism to provide in-country
funding for biodiversity conservation and management of protected areas in Guinea-
Bissau's coastal areas.)
10. CBM supports the gradual integration of existing park management projects into a
coordinated program of activities to be overseen by IBAP. Reinforcing the decentralized
participatory approach to protected areas management specified in the Protected Areas
Framework Law, project activities will be overseen by IBAP and implemented in
partnership with local government officials, the communities, the private sector and
international, national and local NGOs.
B.    COMMUNITY-MANAGED DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
11. Community managed sustainable biodiversity initiatives will be financed through a
micro-fund, Fundo de Iniciatives Ambientais Locais (FIAL). FIAL will provide grants of
up to $10,000 in most cases, in support of specific community-based micro-projects that
can be linked to project objectives. Based on prior national experience and conservation
and poverty reduction criteria, four priority themes for intervention have been tentatively
identified: food security, artisanal fishing, palm exploitation, and renewable energy.
Community members, particularly women and other vulnerable groups, could access
small-scale micro-finance through the fund. Proposals for FIAL financing will be
expected to meet eligibility criteria such as compatibility with management objectives of
the protected area, technical feasibility, cost effectiveness, ecological, economic and
social and environmental safeguards and sustainability, and demonstrated community
commitment and management capacity.
12. Specific interventions will be identified through participatory processes involving the
communities and resource users themselves, facilitated by local non-governmental
organizations and community associations. CBM provides for the costs of outreach
activities by facilitators (local government representatives, NGOs and park staff, and
community association leaders), including awareness raising and extension services
(meetings, pilot activity demonstrations, agro-ecological assessments, dissemination of
lessons learned, study tours, etc). It will fund technical support to interested
communities and resource user associations, for example, participatory diagnosis,
assistance in preparation and implementation of micro-project proposals, management
of community-development funds.
13. In addition, CBM will develop and test new management approach to Reserved
Fishing Zones, where fishing zones are governed by special regulations approved by
local communities. Enforcement of management regulations and surveillance will be
designed and implemented with local stakeholders, in partnership with the extension
service of the government's agency for fishers. This pilot approach is expected to
facilitate ownership of local stakeholders over national coastal resource and to provide
incentives for protection of fish nursing and breeding grounds, including mangroves.
Specifically, the project will fund biological and socioeconomic studies required to
28



establish regulations for the Reserved Fishing Zones, including support for the public
consultation processes. Preparation and implementation of participatory surveillance
plans to enforce regulations will likewise be developed in partnerships between public
and private agencies, and local communities. Public awareness campaigns to promote
responsible fishing practices, following FAO responsible fishing guidelines, will also be
carried out.
C.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
14. CBM will support the establishment of standards for environmental and social
safeguards required for development activities in the country. Specifically, CBM will
support the development, adoption, dissemination and implementation of environmental
impact assessment (EIA) regulations and procedures, and capacity building for EIA
review and monitoring of compliance. The project will also support evaluation of
environmental and social impacts of industrial fisheries and proposed offshore petroleum
development, including organization of public hearings and other consultative
mechanisms. In addition, CBM will support revision of national legislation to facilitate
mainstreaming environmental law to meet international commitments to biodiversity
related international conventions (e.g., Biodiversity, Ramsar, CITES).
D.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
15. Finally, CBM will finance the establishment and operation of a small Project
Management Unit within IBAP. It will also fund the operation of a steering committee
and a consultative committee and implement the monitoring and evaluation, including
periodic independent evaluations of the project.
Ill.  PROJECT COMPONENTS NECESSITATING RESETTLEMENT
16. This section specifies the project components that give rise to resettlement, their
zone of impact, alternatives considered to avoid or minimize resettlement, and the
mechanisms to minimize resettlement during project implementation.
A.    PROJECT COMPONENTS THAT GIVE RISE TO RESETTLEMENT.
17. CBM will focus on institutional strengthening in order to improve park management
in four existing and three proposed protected areas -- the National Park of Orango, and
the two associated National Marine Parks of Joao Vieira-Poilao and of Orango, the
Natural Park of Cufada Lagoon and the Rio Grande de Buba, the Natural Mangroves
Park at Cacheu-- and the one proposed park at Mata de Cantanhez, as well as the
proposed marine park at Formosa.1 In addition, CBM will pioneer community managed
I The National Park of Orango, the National Marine Parks of Joao Veiera-Poilao and of Orango, as well as
the proposed marine reserve at Formosa, are all located in the Bijagos archipelago, in the heart of the
Bolama-Bijagos biosphere reserve. Cufada Lagoon et the Rio Grande de Buba Natural Park is in central
Guinea Bissau; Cufada Lagoon is classified as a Ramsar site. Cacheu Natural Mangrove Park is in
northwestern Guinea-Bissau. And, the proposed Cantanhez Park (status undetermined as yet) is in
southwestern Guinea-Bissau on the border with Guinee-Conakry.
29



Reserved Fishing Zones. IBAP will coordinate these and other activities in order to
preserve and conserve the national environmental heritage. In this, IBAP will work in
partnership with local communities and other organizations to implement the program,
and will have stewardship over the monitoring of the activities.
18. Effective park management through IBAP coordination may give rise to resettlement
in two ways: populations resident in the core areas within the park may have to move in
order to protect the environmental integrity of the core area; or, project investments
through FIAL may attract populations resident out of core areas and into buffer zones
inside or around the park, particularly when relocation is in the interests of the
communities affected. 2
19. The parks in Guinea Bissau were legally delimited within the past five years. By
law, each park is zoned into core areas for biological preservation, and buffer areas
where greater resource use is permitted. Communities reside in both the core and the
buffer zones of each park (i.e., Cacheu, Lagaos Cufada, Orango, and the proposed
Catanhez parks). In principle, communities already resident in the core areas may
remain as long as they restrict their resource use to "collection and fishing" in the core
areas.
20. In reality, communities resident in core areas will, once park management becomes
effective, face a series of restrictions that make their already marginal existence even
more precarious. Exotic plants and animals may be excluded from the core areas, so
that some, as yet undetermined, crops and animals may not be permitted. Further, new
'works, installations or other activities' that do not accord with the preservation aims of
the park are not permitted legally. This could mean, for example, that resident
populations cannot rebuild their houses, or sons and daughters cannot build
independent residences within the core area, thus disrupting traditional, familial patterns.
21. At the same time, CBM is enjoined by the Protected Areas Law to treat communities
in the core and buffer zones differently. Because the Protected Areas Law forbids
'works, installations, and other activities' not in accord with the preservation objectives of
the core park areas, CBM would face greater restrictions on investment in core areas
than in buffer zones inside the parks. For example, CBM could, through FIAL, finance
the purchase of a canoe for communal transport, but the law would not allow
construction of a dock or of an equipment shed within a core area. In other instances,
the restrictions in the core area would be complete: installations such as schools,
clinics, and wells are not, by law, permitted within the core areas, although they are
permissible in the buffer areas. Thus, continued residence of communities in core areas
would lead to unequal investment opportunities in equally poor communities, depending
upon whether they are located in core or buffer zones, and could, therefore, lead to
spontaneous, but involuntary, resettlement out of the core areas.
2 Some communities were established in refuge areas such as mangrove swamps during the war period.
Living conditions in these refuge areas are not only difficult but also insalubrious. Individual families are
already abandoning these villages now that peace has been re-established. This process of spontaneous
relocation can be facilitated under this RPF. (See also Paragraph 21, below).
30



B.    ZONES OF IMPACT
22. The zones of impact are specifically those core areas within national and natural
parks where communities either now reside or are completely encircled by core areas.
In Orango National Park, there is one community on Imbone Island, which has been
declared a core area in consultation with the resident populations. In Lagaos Cufada,
there are six communities resident in core areas of the park. In Cacheu, there are
several communities in the westernmost part of the part that are completely surrounded
by core areas, which limits their economic viability and transport. Finally, the number of
communities in core areas of the proposed Catanhez park has yet to be determined.
C.    ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED
23. There are three alternatives given the definition of core and buffer zone within the
parks: 1) allow communities to continue to reside in the core areas; 2) rezone the core
areas to exclude resident communities; and 3) assist the communities to relocate to the
extent that they are willing.
24. Allowing communities already resident in the core areas is environmentally and
socially unsound, as detailed above (paragraphs 20 and 21). Namely, if a core area is
truly an environmentally critical or important zone, continued habitation, even on a
limited basis, will continue to degrade the area. No less importantly, communities in
core areas cannot legally benefit to the same extent from poverty alleviation measures
because the Protected Areas Law forbids new construction in those areas in order to
preserve them.
25. Rezoning is a less than optimal solution in that the park core areas were delimited
in consultation with the local populations who identified environmentally critical zones
(e.g., turtle maturation grounds) that should be set aside for preservation. To the extent
that the core areas actually are environmentally sensitive or critical zones, rezoning to
exclude resident communities would, in principle, undercut the environmental integrity of
the core areas.
26. The only viable alternative on both environmental and social grounds is to offer
communities resident in critical core areas the opportunity to relocate to neighboring
areas of their choice. To the extent that communities opt to relocate, population
pressures on the natural resources in the core areas will be eased, at least in the short
term. If communities prefer to remain in the core area and that zone is determined
ecologically to be a vital environmental area, then involuntary resettlement may be the
only feasible option.
D.    MECHANISMS TO REDUCE THE EXTENT OF RESETTLEMENT.
27. CBM will undertake three measures to reduce the extent of resettlement.
28. First, CBM will review the current zonation of the parks in order to verify that the
currently defined core areas are, in fact, critical environmental habitats. In the instance
that parts or all of a core area are not critical environmentally, the core area will be
rezoned as a buffer area, where populations may reside and engage in usual productive
activities.
31



29. Second, where communities reside in environmentally critical core areas, CBM,
through IBAP, will consult with the communities to determine whether they are willing to
relocate, and where, as long as basic assistance is provided for house reconstruction,
agricultural production, social infrastructure, and other needs. Since GoGB professes
that neither communities nor individuals should be relocated involuntarily, it is critically
important that the project provide all necessary inducements for the communities to
decide to move in their own interest and that of the public good. Forced involuntary
resettlement through the use of legal instruments will be, in all cases, the final resort
employed only when communities resident in environmentally critical core areas decline
to relocate.
30. Third, CBM, through IBAP, will ensure that communities that relocate, voluntarily or
not, will be treated similarly and will be provided house plots and agricultural lands, with
title, as near to their current communities as is environmentally possible. In most
instances, this means that communities will move out of the core area to an abutting
buffer zone. Where, however, no buffer zone exists for the population or the conditions
in the neighboring area are insalubrious, as is the case for the westernmost villages in
Cacheu park, CBM, through IBAP, will work with the villagers to identify and acquire
appropriate relocation sites.
IV.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
31, This RPF provides the principles for involuntary resettlement and the consequent
measures to mitigate social impacts so that project affected persons (PAPs) will not be
impoverished by the adverse project impacts. The paramount purpose of this RPF is to
restore PAPs' income-earning capacity, that is, to improve or at least sustain the living
conditions of the PAPs prior to project operations. It follows that PAPs will be:
compensated for loss of wages; compensated for loss of assets at replacement costs;
assisted in case of relocation or resettlement; and, given opportunities to share project
benefits.
32. The GoGB supports both development for poverty alleviation and the conservation
of environmentally important areas. GoGB recognizes that, at times, these aims may be
incompatible. Therefore, as a matter of policy and practice, GoGB subscribes to the
following resettlement objectives:
* To conceive of and execute resettlement activities in a socially responsible
manner as sustainable development programs, providing sufficient resources
to enable persons displaced by the project to share in project benefits;
* To consider involuntary resettlement as an integral part of project design, and
deal with resettlement issues from the earliest stages of project preparation;
* To avoid land acquisition and involuntary resettlement wherever feasible, and
to minimize land acquisition and involuntary resettlement wherever such is
unavoidable;
* To consult with project-affected persons (PAPs) in a meaningful manner, and
to provide opportunity for their participation in the planning and execution of
resettlement programs;
32



* To assist PAPs in proportion to impact, recognizing the special needs of
vulnerable populations;
* To compensate PAPs fully and fairly for all assets lost permanently or
temporarily, which means timely payment of full replacement value prior to
construction;
* To ensure that all PAPs who lose residences or businesses are provided
acceptable alternative accommodations before demolition of the structures
and construction of the infrastructure;
* To ensure that PAPs who lose income-generating resources are assisted in
their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at least
restore them, in real terms, to pre-project levels;
33. These policy objectives apply to all direct economic and social impacts that result
from the project and that are caused by the involuntary taking of land that results in
relocation or loss of shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, or the loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to
another location. Further, these policy objectives apply to all components of the project
that result in involuntary resettlement, regardless of the source of financing.
V.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC STUDIES
34. This section presents the socio-economic studies, including the census of residents,
their economy, the extent of loss, information on vulnerable groups, and provisions to
update information on the displaced people's livelihoods and standards of living at
regular intervals. Other baseline studies will cover: land tenure and transfer systems,
social organization in the affected communities, public infrastructure that will be lost, and
the social and cultural characteristics of the displaced communities (e.g., community
organizations, ritual groups, non-governmental organizations).
35. By law, establishment of any park requires, at a minimum, a census of the population
within the proposed park area, along with an assessment of their economy, social
organization, and cultural characteristics. The studies for each park were conducted in
the 1990s in order to provide the legally required information for the delimitation and
zonation of each park. Table 1 provides, for each of the parks, an overview of the
resident population, its ethnic composition, its economic activities and its social
organization.
INSERT TABLE 1
33



TABLE 1:
Population Resident in Park Areas, Ethnic Composition,
Social Organization and Productive Activities,
For Each National and Natural Park
Resident Population  Ethnic Composition of  Social Organization   Productive Activities
_ _ _   (Census year)  Resident Population    _
Orango National Park  Potential Affected  Bijag6s (95%)        o 3 Grands Royaumes   Agriculture: vegetable plots,
(268 kM2)           Population in Core                           (Orango, Bubaque,  dryland rice (1,206 ha) and
Est. 2002           Areas                                         Canhabaque)       recessional rice (17 ha).;
o Grands Rois today   Forest products: oil palm,
Island complex with  9 people                                     exercise           fruit collection;
five principle islands:  (1 community)                            administrative and  Shell collection (lime);
Orango (16,306 ha),                                              religious power over  Fishing
Orangozinho (4,600                                                villages           Mangrove wood collection
ha), Meneque (1,803  Total Population in                       o Traditional         (to process fish)
has), Canogo (1,913  Parks                                        Chiefs(with Kings)  Hunting
ha), and Imbone                                                   today allocated land
(1,931 ha.)         2,268 (2002)         Beafada                                     Sacred forest reserves (at
Mandingo                                   least two on each island,
(about a quarter--21 of Serrer (Senegal)                        used for initiative
81-of the islands are  and other groups                         ceremonies)
inhabited)
34



TABLE 1 (cont.)
Cufada Lakes et le  Potential Affected   Beafada                                     Rice cultivation (Beafada,
Rio Grande de Buba  Population in Core   Fula (Peul)                                 Balanta [diked mangroves])
Natural Park        Areas                Balanta                                     Rainfed Agriculture: Peul ;);
Est. 2002                                Pepel                o  Pepel: Fishermen    Millet, beans (Beafada)
800people            Mandinga                                    Cashew nuts
(southern Guinea     (6 communities)     Manjaco                                     Palm nuts (local women hire
Bissau; park has                                                                     outside Manjaco laborers to
three fresh-water                                                                    collect the nuts and then
lakes; Lake Cufada is  Total Population in                                           process them)
classified as a     Parks                                                            Fishing (practiced by every
Ramsar site)        7,000 (est. 2004)                                                group; Peul fish in Cufada
3,500 (census est.                                               Lagoon)
1997)                                                            Hunting (domestic
consumption and for sale in
"La densite de                                                   nearby cities)
population est de 9,6
habitants au kilometer
carre" (ESIA, p. 19)
35



TABLE 1 (cont.)
Cacheu Natural      Potential Affected   Northern section                             Rice (both slash-and-burn,
Mangrove Park       Population in Core   (7,120 inhabitants in 27                    and diked mangrove fields);
Est.2002            Areas                villages)                                   millet, peanuts, manioc;
Baiote                o  Baiote women fish  Domestic animals (goats,
Est. 800+ people                              with circular nets;  pigs, poultry);
(3-4 communities)   Balanta                  collect oysters, crabs  Forest products (40
Bahum                    and other shellfish  foodstuffs)
Cobiana                                     Mangrove (fuelwood,
Total Population in  Felupe                                      construction, heating, fish
Parks                Manjaco                                     smoking, charcoal)
Other firewood (17 species)
7,120 inhabitants    Southern Section                            Musical instruments (35
(1991) in northern   (830 inhabitants in 14                      species)
sector;              villages)                                   Honey collection
830 inhabitants in   Cobiana                                     Medicinal herbs (105 from
southern sector      Manjaco                                     forest)
(Sectors defined by  Papeis (2 villages: one                     Fishing (all ethnic groups;
Cacheu River)        with 1 family and one                       Senegalese in the northern
with 2 families)      o  Papeis: commercial  sector)
fishing             Shellfish collection (oyster
collection a specialy of
Baiote women; crab; other
shellfish)
Hunting (gun and bow-and-
arrow)
Sacred sites
36



TABLE 1 (cont.)
Cantanhez Park      Potential Affected   20,000 people in region                     Farming
(Proposed National  Population in Core   Fula (Peul; 2,000)                          Livestock
Park)               Areas                Sosso                Fula: herders and      Fishing (Guineans in
Balanta              farmers                estuary)
(Tombali region, in  To be determined    Nalus (2,000)        Sosso: tree cultivation  Mangrove cutting
the southwest;                                                (banana, kola, orange)  (Other uses not specified)
Catanhez forest                          Djacana              Balante: rice cultivation
protected as a hunting Total Population in  Tandas            in saline soils
reserve, by decree, in  Parks            Papeis               (mangrove)
1980)                                    Manjaco              Nalus: original group;
20,000 inhabitants   Bijag6s              slash-and-burn farming;
(1991) in region                          animist religion; use
some 200 forest
products
Post-1 974 immigrants
Post-1 974 immigrants
Post-1 974 immigrants
Post-1 974 immigrants
Post-1 974 immigrants
37



TABLE 1 (cont.)
Joao Vieira-Poilao   Potential Affected    Uninhabited (however  o  All villages belong to  Rice production and other
National Marine Park  Population in Core  certain islands are       the same clan      cereals (1733 ha; slash-and-
(500km2)             Areas                traditional property)  o  Resource use is    burn)
Est. 2001                                                           limited by'drastic'  Palm oil
Southeast of Bijagos  0                                             traditional rules   Fishing;
archipelago, defined                                             o  Cultivation of cereals Turtle fishing
as a 5-10 km band    Total Population in                            for ritual use      Turtle egg collection
around several       Parks                                          (fanado,            Bird collection (parrots);
unihabitaed islands;  0                                             enthronement of
central zone of the  "aucune population ne                         traditional chiefs)  Sacred sites
Bolama Bijagos       reside de facon
Biosphere Reserve    permanente sur le
('protection integrale)  territoire de ce parc.
Ce sont les habitants
des villages situes sur
l'ile de Canhabaque
qui sont les
proprietaires
traditionnels de ces
iles." (ESIA, p. 16)
Orango National      Potential Affected
Marine Park          Population in Core
Areas
Within Bolama-Bijagos
Biosphere Reserve    0
Formosa Marine       Potential Affected
Reserve              Population in Core
(Proposed)           Areas
Within Bolama-Bijagos  0
Biosphere Reserve
38



39



36. It is estimated that some 2,000 people in approximately 20 villages might be required
to relocate under the CBM project. As mentioned above (Paragraph 22),
there is one community on Imbone Island in Orango National Park, six communities
resident in core areas of Lagaos Cufada Natural Park, at least a like number in Cacheu
Natural Park, and an as yet underdetermined number in the proposed Catanhez park.
37. The existing social studies will, therefore, be complemented by a baseline recensus
and socio-economic survey to be conducted in the first six months of CBM. The
identification/survey of project-affected persons (PAPs) will be conducted by IBAP with
the assistance of an international resettlement expert. (IBAP, which will be created under
CBM, has no experience in socio-economic surveys addressing the broader social
impacts of development projects.)
38. The studies now available clearly demonstrate that parks are used for a range of
economic activities. There are various crops raised in the park areas, including rice,
beans, millet, and vegetables. Several forms of agricultural production technology are
practiced, from slash-and-burn (or shifting) agriculture to diked fields in mangrove areas.
In addition, several groups engage in tree cultivation (e.g., oil palms, cashew), herding
(e.g., pigs, goats), and poultry raising. Fishing is an important activity in many areas,
and women in some groups practice particular forms of fish collection. People also
gather shellfish, such as oysters and crabs for sale in the cities, as well as shells for
lime. There is some turtle hunting and turtle-egg collection. Men also hunt many
animals for meat, or capture birds live for sale to urban customers.
39. This overall picture must be broken down because a number of different ethnic
groups live in or around each park, and, typically, each group specializes or engages
predominantly in one or more activities. Table 1 presents the ethnic composition of the
population in and around each park, and outlines in part the social organization and
economic practices of each group, as relevant.
40. Moreover, the ethnic composition of each area is dynamic. Orango National Park,
for example, was exclusively inhabited by Bijagos until about 1947, when some
Mandingo and Serrer fishermen settled there. Similarly, the proposed Catanhez Park is
home to several important groups, the Nalus, who are native to the area, the Fula, who
came in the 1 gth Century, the Balante who came from elsewhere in Bissau in the 20th
Century, and today a number of other groups that have moved into the area since
Independence in 1974 (Djacanca, Tanda, Pepeis, Manjaco, Bijago). Such heterogeneity
over time is characteristic of not only the protected areas in Guinea Bissau but also of
the entire country.
41. Each group tends to have its own traditional economic specialization, though there is
a great deal of diversification in the economy. Bijago are fishermen and farmers;
Mandingo and Serrer tend to be mostly fishermen. Fula are traditionally herders and
farmers; the Sosso, who originated in Guinea, cultivate trees; the Balante develop rice
fields in mangrove areas. The Cobiana and Manjaco people in Cacheu National Park
are mostly farmers, but other groups depend more on fishing. Moreover, there is gender
specialization in economic production. Baiote women, for example, collect oysters,
crabs and other shellfish. In other groups, women and children harvest and process
cashew nuts. Such economic specialization is important because restrictions on access
to particular natural resources would tend to affect particular ethnic groups, and
38



segments within those groups, more than other groups who do not depend as much on
those resources.
42. The population recensus and socio-economic survey to be done at the outset of the
CBM project will refine this information, and provide a solid basis for determining
whether and, if so, which communities need to relocate, what their economic base is at
the present time, and what remedial measures for economic rehabilitation in the new
location would be most appropriate for each productive subgroup in the community.
VI.    LEGAL FRAMEWORK
43. This section analyzes the legal framework, including the scope of the power of
eminent domain and the nature of compensation associated with it, applicable legal and
administrative procedures, the agencies responsible for land acquisition and
resettlement, relevant other laws (including customary and traditional law) governing
land tenure and asset valuation, among other matters, and provides an analysis of
differences between the national legislation and international standards.
A.     LEI DA TERRA, No. 5/98
44. The Lei da Terra No. 5/98 constitutes the legal basis for expropriation and
compensation procedures in Guinea Bissau. The law, which enables private land
ownership and empowers local communities to manage their areas, has three major
objectives: to guarantee sufficient land to local communities to meet their economic
needs; to incorporate customary land holdings into the formal land-tenure system; and
to create land markets and thereby stimulate investment in land (Preamble). All land is
vested ultimately in the State. 3
45. The State reserves the right to expropriate land for the public good (utilidade publica)
(Article 24, Section 1 -e).
46. All citizens and legally recognized residents, without discrimination by sex, social
origin, or province with the country, enjoy the rights of land ownership as defined by the
law (Article 4, Section 1). The State may confer land rights on national or foreign
entities, whether collective or individual, when it is in the national interest (Article 4,
Section 2).
47. Land use is guided by several principles: environmental protection and sustainable
development; common patrimony for present and future generations; recognition of the
various ecological functions of limited natural resource areas; land use in accord with
existing legislation; and information and participation of local populations in defining and
implementing land protection policies (Article 5).
48. Land use is managed by a National Land Commission, assisted by the Regional
Land Commissions and in close coordination with local authorities and local
3Previously, the laws particularly Decree 43893 of 1961, assigned all land to the state, without the
possibility of private property, and limited local communities to the areas necessary for residences and
cultivation only, thus excluding zones for forest collection, grazing and other economic activities vital to rural
communities.
39



communities (Article 6). A duly notarized concession contract deposited with the
National Land Commission constitutes private title (Article 30). (The Directorate of the
National Service for Geography and Cadastral Surveys oversees, in rural areas, the
titling and expropriation processes; Article 32).The local communities have management
authority in accord with their uses and customs in all of their communal area, including
areas for residences, agriculture, communal uses, pastures, hydrological and maritime
resources, sacred areas and other activities of social, cultural or economic importance
(Article 6).
49. The Law No. 5/98 incorporates and recognizes the provisions of the Protected Areas
Law. Except for areas delimited as zones of integral protection (zonas de protec95o
integral, that is, core areas within the protected areas), land may be used privately as
long as the uses accord with national environmental law. Local communities are
guaranteed access to areas that hold sacred forests and other areas of social and
cultural importance, regardless of whether they are in protected or buffer zones within
protected areas (Article 7, Sections 1 and 2).
50. Under the Lei da Terra, a government agency may initiate and coordinate, but
cannot execute, the expropriation and compensation operations. These tasks are legally
the responsibility of the designated government agencies. Government, though, is
responsible for the overall financial liability arising from resettlement under the CBM
project. (Government may seek other available resources, including from private
investors, to settle its financial liabilities. It is, however, Government's position that not
only the costs but also the execution of social impact mitigation measures due to the
implementation of development projects are public responsibilities of the government
and should therefore not be assigned to private actors.)
51. Compensation for Loss of Property. The law recognizes compensation for loss of
property due to the implementation of development projects. The law defines property as
houses, crops and trees. The principles for establishing compensation rates are not
defined, but the law recommends a fair compensation, without further specification.
Experience from previous project operations involving compensation confirms that
government has established a de facto compensation principle of compensation for loss
of property at market value.
52. Compensation for Loss of Land. Compensation in kind, that is, land-for-land
compensation, will be available to PAPs who lose house plots, agricultural fields or other
land. Shortage of land is generally not an issue in Guinea Bissau. Land is rented, bought
and sold, in rural areas as well as in urban areas. Land compensation takes into
account: i) the legal status of the land to be compensated; ii) the quality of the land as
regard to its utilization; and iii) the quantity and the number of people using the land as
the main source of income.
53. The local governments will provide, through purchase or set-aside, the replacement
land required. The area, quality and value of the land will be established by the Office of
Studies and Planning at the Ministry of Agriculture.
54. PAPs who lose their titles will be provided new land with titles by the local
governments. Likewise, PAPs without titles will also be provided land with title by the
local governments. Economically marginalized PAPs with reduced access to land will be
given particular attention by providing them with more land in order to enhance the
40



sources of their livelihood. Also, home gardens for women will be restored with
equivalent facilities in terms of access to sources of water.
B.     LEI DAS AREAS PROTEGIDAS, DECREE-LAW No. 3/97.
55. Decree-Law No. 3/97, published in the official Bulletin (no. 21, 26 May 1997), is the
controlling legislation for protected areas in Guinea-Bissau. The Decree-law establishes
three overarching objectives for protected areas: 1) conservation and preservation of
natural areas; 2) research and the acquisition of scientific and traditional knowledge
about the environment in general , with particular emphasis on traditional practices that
respect the environment; and 3) support and promotion of sustainable usage of the
resources with the aim of improving the conditions of life and well-being of local
populations.
56. The Decree-Law No. 3/97 recognizes the importance of balancing ecological
conservation and local economic development4, and emphasizes the participation of
local populations in this balanced process5 so that populations are not removed
unnecessarily from protected areas. Nevertheless, Decree-Law No. 3/97 does
recognize the necessity, in some cases, of involuntary resettlement: "Considering the
demographic condition of the country and the problematique of creating protected
natural areas, exclusively dedicated to the conservation of nature, where populations
may be forced to withdraw from the area in question" (Preamble, Para 2).6
57. The Decree-Law requires a socio-economic impact study that describes the number
and location of existing villages within the project area (Article 6), along with an
assessment of the benefits and disadvantages creation of the park will cause locally.
The local communities' agreement with the park zonation must be appended to the act
declaring the park7.
58. The Decree Law also requires that each protected area be zoned in order to specify
the types of use (more or less restrictive, more or less specialized) possible in each area
4Preamble, Para. 3: "Considerando que as areas protegidas da Guin6-Bissau devem ter como objectivos a
conserva,co dos ecossistemas e o desenvolvimento econ6mico, cuja contribui,co a econ6mia do pafs nao
deve ser restritra as receitas provenientes do turismo, mas tamb6m a explora,ao duravel dos recursos
naturais das areas."
S Preamble, Para. 5, "Considerando ainda, que a garantia dos interesses das popula,6es residentes que
por consequencia estao envolvidas na consreva,ao dos ecossistemas em questao, 6 salvaguardada
atrav6s de um processo participativo de delimita,co, cria,co e gestao de uma area protegida."
S The original text reads: "Considerando a condi,co demografica do pais e a problematica de se criarem
espa,os naturais protegidos, exclusivamente afectados a conserva,ao da natureza, onde as popula,6es
sao for,adas a se retirar da area em questao."
7Article 6 states: "O projecto de decreto relativo a classifica,ao de um parque sera acompanhado dos
seguintes documentos:
a) Uma nota justificativa de classifica,co,...
b)  Um estudo de impacto s6cio-econ6mico, descrevendo o numero e a localiza,co das
comunidades estabelecidas nos limites do projecto, contendo uma avala,ao dos
inconvenientes e das vantagens que a implementa,co do parque podera acarretar, e caso for
nesessario, as medidass compensat6rias previstas para atenuar ou compensar os
inconvenientess reconhecidos'
c) Um relatorio sobre a concerta,co com as comunidades concernentes relativo a zonagem,
regulamenta,oes e compensa,oes, ao qual sera anexada as actas das reunioes ou outras
pe,as justificativas nas condi,6es previstas
41



of the reserve (Article 23). Preservation zones allow only visits, scientific studies, forest
collection and fishing by resident populations, and other necessary work.8 Thus, each
protected area can have one or more core areas, that is, zones of natural preservation,
as well as a number of other areas, termed buffer zones, where controlled exploitation
by resident communities is allowed as long as such production is carried out in a
sustainable manner. In the contrary case, the Park Director, on his initiative, or on the
recommendation of the management committee may: regulate specific activities, require
prior consent to carry out specific activities, or remove a degraded area from
exploitation. These new rules may be applied through the park area or only to parts of
it.9
59. Natural Parks and Ecological Sanctuaries benefit from the same basic articles as
National Parks. Sacred forests, used for religious purposes, are also protected, and
their status is recognized formally by the State (Article 7 of the Lei da Terra).
60. Importantly, the Loi-Cadre mandates a decentralized participatory approach in the
definition (Section 7)10 and the management of protected areas (Articles 18-21). The
Management Committee for each park (Article 18) is composed of: the Park Director,
who presides over all meetings; representatives of communities resident in the park,
representatives of the relevant government agencies, and representatives of legally
constituted agencies who support the aims and objectives of the park. Park
Management Committees may have up to 26 members, of which one-half must be
members of resident communities (Article 18, Section 2). (Non-resident committee
members are appointed for a five-year term, which may be renewed.) The major charge
of the Management Committee is the definition of the internal rules governing activities
in that park.
C.     GENERAL LABOR LAW
61. Compensation for Loss of Wages. The Lei Geral do Trabajo (General Labor Law) of
Guinea Bissau as of April 5, 1986 clauses 131 and 132 makes provision for
compensation in case of loss of incomes due to economic restructuring of business. The
law entitles staff who are younger than 50 years of age, one-month salary for each year
of service in the company. Staff who are 50 years old or older are entitled two months
salary for each year of service in the company.
8 Article 24 states: "Nas zonas de preserva,cao natural nao 6 permitida nenhuma obra ou instala,cao ou
qualquer outra actividada, a execep,co de:
a) Visitas publicas, nas condioes previstas no relulamento interno do parque;
b) Possibilidade de colheitas ou de pescas reconhecidas pelo regulamento interno do parque em
beneficio exclusivo das comunidades residents do parque;
c) Observa,ces cientificas, estudos ou medidas de gestao necessaries aos objectivos de
conserva,ao, devidament autorizadas pelo Director do parque;
d) Obras necessaries para os objectivos previstos nas alineas anteriores."
9 Article 29 states that the Park Director of the Management Council may:
a) Regulamentar ou propor regulamenta,ao sobre certas actividades e tecnologia que devem ser
empregues;
b) Requerer autoriza,co previa para o exercicio de certas actividades, assim como establecer
quotas.
c) Fechar provisoriamente um sector que tenha sofrido degrada,ao devido a explora,ao e
coloca-lo em regenera,cao."
t "A proposta de cria,co de um parque e da sua zonagem sera formulado em concerta,ao com as
comunidades locais concernents." (Article 7).
42



D.    DIFFERENCES BETWEEN NATIONAL LEGISLATION AND INTERNATIONAL
STANDARDS
62.   Land law in Guinea Bissau accords with international standards in almost all
regards. People affected by land-taking are fully informed about the need for land
appropriation, and participate in the design of the operation. Replacement land is
routinely provided, and all assets are valued at full market value. Thus, compensation is
paid either in kind or in cash, whichever is more appropriate and the preferred option of
the PAPs.
63. The major difference between national legislation and international standards
pertains to the legal obligations for economic rehabilitation. National law requires only
compensation at full market value for all assets (e.g., land, structures, other
infrastructure), without specifying additional assistance to vulnerable populations or to
the resettler population after relocation. International standards specify that resettlement
obligations extend beyond compensation to economic rehabilitation.
64. The Government of Guinea Bissau is fully committed to equitable and sustainable
development. GoGB prefers to move no populations, if at all possible, and will provide
all assistance necessary when involuntary resettlement is unavoidable in the context of
CBM. Thus, while the legal framework for expropriation and rehabilitation properly
relies on the legislation of Guinea Bissau, the higher of the two standards will be applied
in any instance where there is a discrepancy on the grounds that the higher standard
ipso facto meets the obligations of the lesser standard.
VIl.  ELIGIBILITY
65. All persons residing in villages within core areas of national or natural parks are
eligible for compensation and other resettlement assistance. The cut-off date for
eligibility is the date when recensus of the population in that park is initiated.
66. If when the population census is conducted and the rezoning of the parks carried out,
villages now within core areas are redefined as within buffer zones in the park, the
village will not have to move, and, therefore, will not be eligible for assistance under this
RPF. Such villages would be eligible for assistance under the Process Framework,
defined above (Section 1).
Vil. VALUATION OF AND COMPENSATION FOR LOSSES
67. This section presents the methodology used in the valuation of and compensation for
losses.
A.    METHODS OF VALUING AFFECTED ASSETS
68. The basis of the valuation is Gross Current Replacement Cost (GCRC). Gross
Current Replacement Cost is defined as the estimated cost of erecting a new building
having the same gross external area as that of the existing one, with the site works and
43



services on a similar piece of land. The valuation process will also consider the use of
"compensation value" for affected properties. Compensation value is defined as an
amount above the gross current replacement cost that includes compensation for
inconvenience caused to the PAP by relocation and any additional assistance (e.g.,
disturbance allowance). Compensation value enables PAPs to build slightly better
houses and other structures than what they currently have. Additional payments, such
as,vulnerability premium, transitional assistance, and economic rehabilitation are
intended to assist PAPs to re-establish themselves in their new locality.
69. All compensation rates will be provided to PAPs no later than the time when the
asset inventory is initiated, and the list of compensation rates will be posted publicly
within the community. The community will, therefore, have the opportunity to review the
general reimbursement values, and can request revision of the standard rates if the
rates are out-of-date (i.e., more than one-year old) or inappropriate given local market
conditions. In such instances, the PMU will, in consultation with the Village Grievance
Committee, revise the rates, and the new rate structure will be reviewed and approved
by the community, and then posted in a public place.
70. Valuation of Agricultural Land. For agricultural land, replacement value is the higher
of the pre-project or pre-displacement market value of land of equal productive potential
or use located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of land preparation to
levels similar to those of the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer
taxes.
71. Valuation of Urban Land. For land in urban areas, replacement value is the pre-
displacement market value of land of equal size and use, with similar or improved public
infrastructure facilities and services and located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus
the cost of any registration and transfer taxes;
72. Valuation of Houses and Other Structures. For houses and other structures,
undepreciated replacement value is the market cost of the materials to build a
replacement structure with an area and quality similar to or better than those of the
affected structure, or to repair a partially affected structure, plus the cost of transporting
building materials to the construction site, plus the cost of any labor and contractors'
fees, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes.
73. In determining replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage
materials are not taken into account, nor is the value of benefits to be derived from the
project deducted from the valuation of an affected asset.
74. Valuation of Crops and Trees. Cash compensation will be paid for loss of crops and
trees on land to be expropriated. In accordance with Guinea Bissau
expropriation/compensation procedures, compensation rates will be established by the
office of studies and planning at the Ministry of Agriculture. Compensation rates for loss
of crops and trees will be based on market values, and cover a cash value of the loss
estimated until the new crop or tree comes to maturity. The compensation rates for trees
will not only be based on the age of the tree, but also, on the variety of the species. For
instance, the compensation of 5-year-old mango trees will be based on the age of the
tree and on the variety of the mangos. The valuation of crops and trees will be effected
by the Office of Studies and Planning at the Ministry of Agriculture.
44



75. Compensation for Business Relocation. If relocation of business becomes
necessary, access to customers and suppliers will be taken into account. In addition,
workers losing employment in the process of relocating will be entitled to transitional
income support of up to six months net profit.
76. Compensation for Temporary Impacts. Compensation for temporary impacts
includes but not limited to the following: Compensation equivalent to lost income
required for the duration of impact; Compensation equivalent to lost income required for
loss of access; Physical restoration of assets (or access) required prior to return.
77. Other Assistance. PAPs who must relocate will be entitled to transitional assistance,
which include moving expenses, temporary residence (if necessary), employment
training and income support while awaiting employment and should have an option for
full compensation if duration of impact is to exceed two years. In addition, the project
will provide a disturbance allowance of 30 percent over the total value of all assets lost
by each PAP. Further, in preparing the valuation, average costs will have to be
assumed, but it will be noted that costs of construction vary from one locality to the
other.
78. Vulnerability Premium. In those instances where a PAP is unable to reconstruct his
or her own home (e.g., elderly, single-mother households, handicapped), the project will
provide an acceptable house, properly furnished, and all other assistance necessary for
the PAP to re-establish him or herself in the new locality.
B.    COMPENSATION PROCEDURES AND CIVIL WORK SCHEDULE
79. A social impact assessment will be conducted parallel with the redesign of the park
master plan. The assessment will be used to determine the number of PAPs and
establish whether or not, a resettlement action plan (RAP) is required. The staff of IBAP,
with local consultants and under the leadership of an international resettlement expert,
will conduct the assessment.
80. Where relocation is unavoidable, expropriation and compensation committees will be
established for each resettlement operation. The committees will be constituted by
representatives of: the PAPs (one male and one female), the village chief (1
representative), the collaborating NGO (1 representative), Park Management (1
representative), local government (1 representative), and the technical expropriation
staff (e.g., Departments of Agriculture (crops and trees]; 1 representative). The local
Grievance Committee will supervise registration of affected PAPs and their properties,
establishment of compensation rates, and compensation of PAPs in their locality. The
local Grievance Committee, however, is primarily charged with hearing PAP complaints
about aspects of the resettlement operation.
81. Compensation procedures will include five steps:
i     Establishment of compensation committees,
ii    Inventory of identified lost,
iii   Establishment of compensation rates for all assets to be expropriated,
iv    Negotiation of PAPs' compensation offers, and
v     Payment in full of the compensation value
All PAPs in a locality will be fully compensated before physical relocation is initiated.
45



IX.   RESETTLEMENT MEASURES
82. This section describes the general resettlement measures to assist each category of
eligible displaced person to achieve the objectives of the policy in a culturally acceptable
manner. Since the actual resettlement measures will depend upon the conditions and
requirements of the specific community, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will be
developed in consultation with the PAPs for each specific resettlement operation. The
RAP will detail the particular measures that will be undertaken in each place.
83. The guiding principle for resettling villages in core park areas is to relocate them in
nearby areas with similar ecological conditions. By limiting the distance of the move and
ensuring that PAPs relocate in similar zones, the extent of adjustment required is greatly
reduced, and the success of the operation therefore enhanced. (PAPs usually find
adaptation to near-by host areas much easier than if they move long distances to
ecological distinct areas that completely disrupt existing social ties within and between
communities and that require new productive technologies.)
84. People who lose assets and resources will be assisted to fully replace those loses in
the new location. Houses and other structures will be rebuilt to at least the existing
standards (Sections X and Xl, below). PAPs may construct their own houses and other
structures, if they so wish, in which case the PMU will provide any and all material and
assistance needed. Alternatively, if a PAP is unable or unwilling to construct his or her
own residence or open new fields, the PMU will make arrangements for those activities
to be done in a timely manner. Importantly, house gardens and agricultural fields, as
well as grazing and other common areas, will be replaced with equal areas with similar
or better soil quality, water accessibility and transport availability. Continued access to
natural resources in the core areas may be permitted, under specified conditions, and, if
not, will be provided in the resettlement area.
85. At the same time, the resettlement sites will be provided basic social infrastructure
that is now generally not available in the original communities. Village wells, communal
stores, schools, clinics, electricity, and access to both water and land transport are
among the possibilities for either government or CBM investment or both (Section Xl,
below).
86. Government will also provide whatever additional resettlement measures are
appropriate to facilitate the adjustment and re-establishment of PAPs in their new areas.
Social workers will be contracted to work with PAPs in the period prior to the move and
afterwards. Government agencies will assign technicians to provide these necessary
services. For example, the Ministry of Health will provide clinicians to ensure that health
status improves, rather than declines, during the stressful period of relocation. The
Ministry of Education will assign teachers to any newly opened schools. The Ministry of
Agriculture will dedicate extension agents and other technical support to farmers in the
new area. Alternatively, an NGO may be contracted by the project for these ends.
46



Table 2:
Illustrative List of Remedial Economic Measures
Restriction       Affected Persons          Possible Remedial Measures
Agriculture-annual  Farmers               o  Allow harvest; provide alternative plots of
crops                                        same size and soil quality for agriculture
elsewhere; provide improved seed and
technical assistance on processing
Agriculture - rice  Rice farmers          o  Allow harvest; provide alternative plots of
(mangrove areas)                             same size and soil quality for agriculture;
compensate labor for cost of opening new
fields; provide improved seed and
technical assistance on and manual
machines for processing
Agriculture-        Arboriculturists      o  Allow harvest; provide alternative land of
perennial crops                              equivalent size and soil quality for new
trees; reimburse value of future harvests
until new trees come into full production
o  Mango processing for preserves
o   Improved beehives (instead of felling
trees)
o   Improved palm oil presses (extraction now
often done by hand)
Fishing             Fishermen             o   Improved technologies (motors, nets) in
compensation for enforced fishing rules
o  Technical assistance and basic equipment
in fish processing
Shellfish collection  Shellfish collectors  o  Processing techniques to assist in
preservation
Secondary Forest    Secondary Forest      o   Provide assistance to establish nurseries
Product Collection  Product Collectors       for production of secondary forest
(e.g., dye stuffs,                           products
medicines, vines)                         o   Food processing (e.g., wild fruit such as
fiol and faroba)
Animal Grazing in   Herders               o   Cattle: alternative grazing areas, if
Protected Area      Animal owners            available; tether grazing animals
o  Sheep and Goats: grazing methods
o  Pigs: improved sties and food
Wood collection     Wood collectors       o   Provide more fuel-efficient stoves
(women)
Fishermen and fish    o  Alternative preservative techniques (e.g.,
processors               solar drying units, salt)
Charcoal makers       o  Improved production techniques
47



87. The specific measures for economic rehabilitation will be defined by the PAPs who
presently engage in that type of activity (e.g., rice agriculture, tree crops, fishing,
shellfish collection), in consultation with the PMU, the relevant technical experts from
government agencies and NGOs working in the area, and, if the relocation area is a
buffer zone within a park, with the Park Management Council. The specific measures to
be implemented will be presented in the RAP, along with an action plan that details
institutional technical and financial responsibility for each measure. Table 2 (above)
presents an illustrative list of measures that could be implemented.
88. Further, CBM project staff, and their NGO collaborators, will oversee the entire
process in order to ensure that relocation and resettlement provides as smoothly as
possible.
X.    SITE SELECTION, SITE PREPARATION AND RELOCATION
89. This section covers the selection and preparation of resettlement sites, as well as the
relocation process.
90. When a village decides to relocate, the community, in close collaboration with the
PMU, will suggest their preferred relocation sites. These may be in the buffer zones of
the park or outside the park. Individuals have the options either of moving as a
community to the new site or of moving to a site of their personal preference, as long as
it is outside of a core area of a park.
91. For collective relocation, once the relocation area has been identified and surveyed
to ensure that it is not held by legal or customary right by other people, the PMU will, in
close coordination with the local officials responsible, acquire a sufficient amount of land
of similar or better size and quality that is acceptable to the PAPs. The amount of land
acquired will be sufficient to allow both house plots and agricultural fields of similar size
to those held by the PAPs in the core area. It will also provide sufficient grazing land for
the animals owned by the PAPs. For individual relocation, the individual PAP may
negotiate with the local authority for a house plot, agricultural fields, and grazing and
other areas. The PMU will verify that the price for these areas accords with current
market rates, and, once approved, will have the funds to purchase the houseplot and
fields allocated for these ends.
92. The PMU, in coordination with the officials responsible, will take the actions
necessary to grant formal, legal title to both collective settlements and to individual
relocates, as is provided for in the Decree-Law on Protected Areas.
93. In the instance of collective relocation, the PMU will take charge of the preparation of
the resettlement site, e.g., leveling the area, staking out house plots and agricultural
areas. Within the village, house plots will be allocated on a lottery basis if the villagers
do not decide this matter themselves. In the case of individual relocates, the PMU will
verify that the houseplot is of sufficient size and quality for the new residence, and that
the agricultural fields are in proper condition for cultivation.
48



94. No PAP will be required to move until his or her house and fields are ready for
occupation or use, and accepted by the PAP. All basic necessary community
infrastructure must also be satisfactorily installed (e.g., wells and pumps, docking
facilities) before PAP families relocate to the new area.
95. The PMU will provide all necessary assistance for relocation, whether communal or
individual. In preparation for the move, the social workers assigned by Government or
contracted by the PMU will estimate the volume of goods and number of livestock that
must be transported, and will contract sufficient vehicles to effect the move in a
reasonable period of time. The PMU will also ensure that social workers are present at
the relocation site at the time of the move. The social workers will visit each family upon
arrival to assist with any matters or concerns that may arise (e.g., cooking meals, mislaid
goods or property). The social workers will remain in the new community for at least one
month, or until all relocates are satisfactorily settled in their new residences.
Xi.    HOUSING, INFRASTRUCTURE AND SOCIAL SERVICES
96. This section describes the plans to provide housing, infrastructure, and social
services.
97. PAPs will have a decisive role in determining the relocation area, in allocating house
and productive plots, in the design of new houses and other structures, and in the
construction of replacement buildings and other infrastructure. PAPs, in consultation
with the PMU, will identify and acquire replacement lands. PAPs will decide upon the
allocation of house plots and agricultural fields collectively or by lottery. In either case,
PAPs will approve all construction plans for their new home, such as the lay-out of the
new village, the floorplan for the houses, the location of kitchens, latrines, animal pens
and other associated structures. The PAPs will also oversee construction activities, and
channel any complaints through the grievance resolution system (Section XV).
98. PAPs may build the houses themselves, if they wish, in which case the PMU,
through the responsible government agency, will provide all necessary materials (e.g.,
brick-making machines or bricks, thatch, doors and doorframes, windows, nails, hinges).
In those cases where the PAP cannot or does not wish to construct his or her own
house, the PMU will contract for the construction of houses according to the plan
selected by the PAP. Whether the PAP or the PMU with local government builds the
new housing, PAPs will be allowed to salvage any materials from their old residence that
they want incorporated into their new home.
99. The PMU, along with the responsible government agencies, will be responsible for
the installation of all required infrastructure. This may include, but is not limited to:
community wells and pumps, community meeting hall, schools, clinics, boat docking
facilities, latrines, electricity, All community infrastructure must be completed before
individual PAPs relocate to the new facility.
100.  Also as mentioned above, the PMU will take all necessary measures to ensure
that basic social services are available to the relocates. This means, first of all, that
social workers will be engaged to assist the PAPs in settling into their new residences.
The social workers will be responsible for facilitating the re-establishment process, and
for contacting PMU should any unanticipated difficulties arise. The Project will allocate
49



sufficient funds to accommodate requests for additional or alternative services or
infrastructure, as is needed.
XII.  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT
101.  Relocating populations from one area to another increases the population
density, and thus the pressure on natural resources, in the resettlement area. This
section describes the boundaries of the relocation area, and an assessment of the
environmental impacts of the proposed resettlement measures.
102.  Communities within core zones of park areas may decide to move either to buffer
zones within the parks or to areas outside the parks. If populations decide to move to
buffer zones within the park, Project Authorities must carry out baseline environmental
studies to determine the carrying capacity of the resettlement area to receive additional
residents. The studies will cover all of the pertinent concerns, e.g., creation of new
residential areas, increased demand for fresh water, increased requirement for grazing
areas, increased demand for and opening of agricultural fields, increased pressure on
traditional fishing territories.
103.  The same set of studies will be conducted when communities move outside of
the park area. In this instance, however, the increase in pressure on natural resources
is likely to be less than that in habited buffer zones within park areas because the
relocation site would, optimally, be an uninhabited area that is released by its traditional
owners, if any, for resettlement. When resettlers choose to join existing communities
outside the park boundaries, the studies will examine the extent to which population will
increase and thus the extent to which existing resources can support that increased
population.
104.  These studies will be conducted when the communities are selecting their
preferred relocation sites. The studies will be provided to the communities and
discussed in open meetings, so that all people concerned are as fully informed about the
potentials for each site.
XiII. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
105.  Communities resident within core park areas will participate integrally and
meaningfully in the decision-making about whether, where and how to relocate, as well
as about economic rehabilitation measures. Moreover, host communities will be fully
consulted about individual and collective relocation within their traditional territories.
A.    PAP PARTICIPATION
106.  CMB, its contractor NGO, and Park Management will consult with communities
resident in environmentally vital core areas about the possibility of relocation and will
assess local reaction to possible resettlement. Usually, project representatives first
contact the notables in each locality to organize community meetings with the PAPs.
Then, once the local notables are informed, community meetings are held to discuss the
50



options available. All residents in affected communities are fully entitled to participate
integrally and meaningfully in all decisions on the resettlement operation.
107.  If the community in its totality consents to involuntary resettlement, the PMU and
its collaborating agencies will work closely with the community to identify and acquire
acceptable relocation areas, design the residential, agricultural and other zones within
the new area, to plan and implement the relocation process, and to design the economic
rehabilitation measures.
108.  If the community rejects the possibility of involuntary resettlement, Park
Management will review its zonation to ensure that the community area is indeed an
environmentally critical zone. If so, the PMU will request the appropriate Government
agencies to initiate the exercise of its powers of eminent domain in order to relocate the
population. Whether relocation is accepted or not, the PMU will work closely with the
community in planning and implementing all stages of the operation.
109.  Once the decision to relocate is taken, the representatives of the PMU, together
with representatives of the government agencies responsible and the community, will
identify ownership of each structure and agricultural plot affected and, together,
inventory the structures, crops and other assets for valuation and replacement.
110.  Once the inventory of physical assets affected has been compiled and checked
by the PMU, CBM representatives will attend a meeting in each locality to verify and
agree upon the extent of impact on each PAP. At these meetings, the CBM
representative will distribute and read the itemized list of compensation values in order
to facilitate public discussion. The CBM representative will also read the inventory of
affected assets to each PAP who then signs to indicate his or her agreement with the
inventory. In the instance of a disputed inventory, the PAP may request a re-
assessment or may, in exceptional instances, lodge a complaint with the Grievance
Committee.
111.  When compensation amounts are agreed upon in a locality, the PMU and local
officials will proceed to organize the compensation payment in public meetings. The
payments will be verified by the PMU, the responsible official from local government and
the PAP him or herself. Each party will receive a copy of the compensation voucher.
112.  In parallel with the compensation process, the PMU will organize meetings with
the community in order to identify acceptable relocation areas. The PMU, in
collaboration with community representatives, will visit the prospective relocation areas
in order to determine the availability and suitability of each area. Once suitable areas
are identified, the PMU will assist the community to acquire those lands, prepare land
use plans, design residential areas, and undertake all other necessary preparatory
measures for the actual relocation. Planning and coordination of these tasks are key to
the successful implementation of the resettlement operation. To achieve that goal,
workshops will be organized in the communities and with relevant government agencies,
in order to facilitate the decision-making process and provide technical inputs to define a
coherent workplan.
113.  Similarly, prior to physical relocation, the PMU will initiate with the community the
planning for economic rehabilitation measures. These will be presented in detail in the
RAP for the operation.
51



114.  The overall process is identical when PAPs decide to move individually to
specific other locations. The PMU will assign a social worker to collaborate with the
individual PAP in the selection of a new residence and agricultural area, ensure the
availability of construction materials, facilitate the release of funds in a timely manner for
each required payment, and assist in planning and carrying out the physical transfer of
the household to the new site, as well as in the planning and implementation of any
economic rehabilitation measures.
B.    HOST COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
115.  In each instance where a community must move from an environmentally critical
core park area to a new locality, the population resident in the host area will be surveyed
to determine their views and concerns about the influx of a new population. As will be
done in the affected communities, the PMU will first consult with the local notables and
government authorities, and then, with their assistance and collaboration, organize open
village meetings to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the proposal. (See
also Section XIV, Integration with Host Populations, below.)
XIV. INTEGRATION WITH HOST POPULATIONS
116.  Integration of host and resettler populations can be problematic. CBM will take
several steps to ensure that these groups establish harmonious relations from the
outset.
117.  First, PAPs may relocate as individuals or as communities. In the former
instance, the individuals are responsible for negotiating with the host villagers for house
plots, agricultural fields, and access to other resources, with the assistance of the PMU,
as needed. Since in most such cases, the individual family will likely be related to
people in the host community, the extent of integration with the host population is apt to
be strong.
118.  Where communities in core park areas resettle as a community in areas of their
choice, the agreement of the host community to the relocation of the village and the
reassignment of rights to resources is a fundamental condition for determining the
viability of the new location. As in the case of individual resettlement, it is likely that
communities will move into areas inhabited by their or related ethnic groups, thus easing
the question of integration with the host population.
119.  Second, CBM will provide host communities with the same infrastructure as that
contemplated for the resettlement villages. That is, host communities may apply for
wells, schools, clinics, docks and other facilities, as they deem important. These
requests for assistance under FIAL will be given priority in project selection. This is
important because host communities often feel short-changed when they see resettler
communities benefiting from many new facilities that are not also provided to the host.
XV.   GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
52



120.  Grievances may arise at any stage of the resettlement process -- over whether or
where to relocate, over the inventory of assets or their valuation, over the location of
house plot and agricultural fields, over the relocation process itself, or over economic
rehabilitation measures. Given the range, and the sensitivity, of the issues that may
arise, the grievance resolution system must allow for the full hearing of all complaints in
a transparent, impartial, and systematic manner. The aim of the grievance resolution
process is to resolve issues in as harmonious manner as possible so that all parties
understand and accept the decisions. Further, in practical terms, it is advisable to
resolve issues as quickly as possible and at the lowest level possible in order to avoid
protracted disputes that can, over the longer term, become all but intractable.
121.  CBM will institute a number of measures to help ensure agreement and avoid
disputes. The project will provide each PAP the compensation rate list before the asset
inventory is undertaken, so that the community can review the list of assets and their
general valuation procedures. Subsequently, the project will provide each PAP an
itemized list of assets to be taken, with valuation for each asset, as soon after the asset
inventory as possible. To this end, it is advisable that the PAP participate in the asset
inventory, and verify its completeness by signing the asset inventory form.
Compensation will be paid, in cash, to individual PAPs only after written consent of the
PAPs, including both husband and wife. Payment will be effected at a public meeting
convened for that purpose, and will be verified by the PMU, the PAP, and a concerned
third party, such as a collaborating NGO.
122.  Similarly, the project will provide PAPs full information on the assistance to be
provided for house reconstruction, field opening or leveling, titling, relocation, and
economic rehabilitation. Each of these matters will also be discussed in community
meetings to help ensure that everyone has an opportunity to learn of and critique the
measures proposed.
123.  Should a PAP at any time have a grievance, whether it is over asset inventory or
valuation, relocation assistance or rehabilitation measures, he or she can bring the
matter to the attention of the PMU or local official for informal resolution. If project-level
intervention fails to resolve the matter, the complainant can lodge the grievance with the
VGC. The committee will hold a meeting in the village to determine the facts of the
matter and recommend an appropriate resolution.
124.  For these reasons, Village Grievance Committees (VGC) will be established to
hear and resolve disputes. The VGC will include: one male and one female PAP
elected by the community, the village chief or his (or her) representative, one
representative from local government, one representative from the collaborating NGO,
one member of the Park Management Council (the park director or his representative),
and one representative from the PMU (IBAP). Decisions of the VGC will be by majority
vote, and the minutes of VGC discussions will be provided to the complainant.
125.  Should the grievance continue without resolution, a civil court will settle the
litigation. Each PAP has the right to take his or her case to the court when the project
grievance redress measures have failed.
53



XVI. ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONAL
RESPONSIBILITIES
A.    ORGANIZATIONAL FRAMEWORK
126.  Resettlement operations involve the collaboration of a number of ministries. The
Ministerio de Administragao Interna coordinates with the regional and local government
agencies on all resettlement issues overall. Meanwhile, the Ministerio do Piano, in close
collaboration with the Department of Statistics and Census (Departamento de
estatisticas e seso da populagao), is the agency responsible for enumerating the
resident population. At the same time, the Ministerio das Obras Publicas works closely
with the Department of Geography and Surveys (Direc9ao de geografia e cadastro), and
is legally responsible for the identification of the geographic area for relocation and for
confirming that the area is delivered to the resettler population without any effective
occupation or use. Other ministries may be called upon to assist in economic
rehabilitation (e.g., Agriculture) or in the provision of qualified personnel (e.g., Education,
Health).
127.  CBM has established a Steering Committee (Comit Pilotagem) to ensure
coordination among the various government agencies. The Steering Committee also
takes decisions about the policy direction of the CBM and its activities. (The execution of
the project is delegated to the Project Management Unit.)
B.    PLANNING PRINCIPLES AND PROCESS
128.  CBM through IBAP will provide general direction for the planning of the
expropriation/ compensation and relocation processes, ensure coordination between
stakeholders, and monitor implementation. At launching of each subproject,
stakeholders will be consulted to establish planning principles and work arrangements
aimed at identifying and mitigating adverse social impacts. Baseline surveys, valuation
of properties and payment of compensation will be completed before any physical
relocation begins. Progressively, all PAPs will be consulted in the process, be it in the
context of resettlemenV compensation, in the context of mitigating adverse impacts on
cultural heritage or in the context of mitigating other project related social impacts.
129.  In line with established procedures, the Department of Statistics and Census, or
its designated contractor, will conduct the registration of PAPs and properties in core
park areas. The Ministry of Internal Administration, through local government or its
designated contractor, will execute the valuation of houses and other assets.
Meanwhile, the Department of Studies and Surveys, Ministry of Agriculture, will effect
the valuation of crops and trees. The Ministry of Internal Administration, through local
government, will execute payment of compensation.
130.  Project operations regarding resettlement/rehabilitation will be coordinated and
monitored by the CBM PMU, under the supervision of the Steering Committee. The
CBM PMU will, therefore recruit a national social scientist to plan, manage and monitor
the implementation of the social mitigation measures. In addition, an international
resettlement expert in resettlement will be engaged on a consultancy basis with the aim
of supporting the national social scientist to ensure progress on the ground, strengthen
analytical capacity and provide proper documentation of operations executed.
54



XVII. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
131. Whether involuntary resettlement will occur under the CBM project will be
determined during the first year of the project. This section therefore outlines the steps
required for an implementation schedule; the actual scheduling of activities would be
provided in the Resettlement Action Plan that would be developed for any specific
operation.
132.  During the first six months of the project, CBM, in close coordination with the
Ministry of Internal Administration and the Ministry of Planning, will carry out a recensus
of populations within the parks. In the buffer areas of the parks, the census will
enumerate the population, including basic demographic information (e.g., age, gender,
ethnic group, education, occupation). In park core areas, the recensus will include,
additionally, an inventory of all assets held by resident populations, the seasonal
residence of individuals not present at the time of the census, the community
infrastructure that would be lost were the communities to relocate, and other matters
basic for the planning of a resettlement operation.
133. At the same time, the Park Management Council will carry out an ecological
inventory of the core areas to determine whether core areas with resident villages could,
on environmental grounds, be rezoned as buffer areas where populations may remain.
134.  In the second half of PY 1, the CBM Steering Committee, in consultation with the
Ministry of Internal Administration, the Ministry of Plan, and the Park Management
Councils, will hold a series of meetings in each park to determine whether any villages
will be required to relocate from the core areas. These public meetings will be held in
the potentially affected villages in order to inform the local population of the prospective
plans and to gather local assessments of those plans.
135.  In the instance that a community must relocate from a core area for ecological
reasons or for its own benefit, CBM will, in close collaboration with the agencies
responsible, work with the affected community to identify and select relocation sites,
carry out environmental studies of potential sites, and develop a Resettlement Action
Plan. The RAP will follow the outline of this RPF, and will detail the specifics of the
particular resettlement operation, with particular emphasis on relocation, economic
rehabilitation, implementation schedule, budget, and monitoring. The RAP will append a
complete list of PAPs, an itemized list of assets taken, with the valuation for each asset
lost. The draft RAP will be provided to the PAPs for their consideration and comment,
which will be incorporated into the final version of the plan. The RAP will then be
submitted to the Steering Committee for its consideration and approval, and will be
provided to all donors for their consideration and comment.
136.  Implementation of the RAP may begin only once the plan is approved by all
parties involved. The operation should follow the timeline for activities in the RAP.
Whether or not operations accord with the original timetable, no relocation will take place
unless and until all housing, new infrastructure, and productive assets are in place and
acceptable to the PAPs.
55



137.  As mentioned, (Section ), CBM will provide for post-relocation assistance and
monitoring in order to ensure that all PAPs re-establish themselves as readily as
possible in the new area.
XVIII. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A.    ADMINISTRATIVE MONITORING
138.  A monitoring and an evaluation plan, with mitigation measures, will be
established for each resettlement operation. The scope of the plan will take into account
the size of the operation and the extent of social impacts to be mitigated. The
monitoring program in each case will cover internal administrative monitoring, to be
conducted by the CBM PMU. This monitoring program will detail project mechanics,
such as number of community meetings held and results; new lands identification and
acquisition; asset loss inventories and compensation payments; number of PAPs moved
individually and communally; and number and type of economic rehabilitation measures.
These reports will be made quarterly.
B.    SUBSTANTIVE MONITORING
139.  Monitoring of the economic rehabilitation program will track both administrative
and substantive activities on an annual basis. As for administrative activities, the
monitoring program will review, each year, the number of proposals for remedial
measures, the type of measures, and their level of financing. The monitoring program
will also track the proposals for community-level measures, their type and level of
funding. The concern here is that individual and community rehabilitation measures
achieve the overarching resettlement objective of improving, or at a minimum at least
restoring, PAPs' pre-move living standards and income.
140.  Monitoring of substantive activities will focus on PAP satisfaction with the
resettlement program and the success or rehabilitation measures. Participatory
monitoring techniques will be used whenever possible, to create a sense of ownership
and to promote community understanding of project objectives. However, responsibility
of the monitoring program lies with the CBM PMU, which may contract with qualified
research groups or NGOs to consult PAPs through a household survey. The aim of that
survey is to assess the impacts of the social mitigation measures implemented. The
contracted agency will also assess the perspectives of other stakeholders, such as local
government and Park Management, in order to determine successful approaches and
difficulties in the implementation of social mitigation measures. Each annual monitoring
report will also append the list of community and focus group meetings, assess progress
on each type of rehabilitation measure, and refine indicators to track income restoration
141. To ensure that monitoring results-are incorporated into subsequent project
undertakings, the CBM IBAP PMU will organize project completion workshops with
government agencies, NGOs and representatives of PAPs after completion of each
resettlement operation (but prior to the closure of the mitigation measures). The aim of
this exercise is to assess progress in the operations executed, suggest corrective
measures where needed, and solve pending issues.
C.    EXTERNAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION.
56



142.  External monitoring will be conducted by World Bank supervision missions. Since
World Bank supervision missions may be insufficient to monitor progress in the
mitigation of adverse social impacts, capacity-building inputs from the international
resettlement expert will guide implementation of this project. This will ensure: progress
on the ground; stronger analytical capacity and full documentation of safeguard
operations executed.
XIX. COSTS AND BUDGET
143.  This section of each RAP will estimate the costs of resettlement operation and its
budgetary allocation, by source and year.
144.  A template budget would be as follows:
Table 3:
Illustrative Budget Template
AMOUNT OR         TOTAL         AGENCY
NUMBER        ESTIMATED     REPSONSIBLE
ASSET ACQUISITION                                 COST
Land                                                      _                l
Structures
Crops and Economic Trees
Community Infrastructure
LAND ACQUISITION AND
PREPARATION
Land                                        __
Structures
Crop Areas and Other
Community Infrastructure
RELOCATION
Transfer of Possessions
Installation Costs
Other
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION
Training
Capital Investment
Technical Assistance
MONITORING
CONTINGENCY
TOTAL
57



I



