Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3997 GUB 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Coastal and Biodiversity Management Project) 
 
Between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 15 , 2004 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3997 GUB 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  December 15 , 2004 between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-
BISSAU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A)   the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
March 18, 2004, describing a program designed to protect and sustainably manage the 
Borrower’s natural resources, including 
fisheries (the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such program;   
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority      
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of Part C and a portion of Parts B and D of the 
Project;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, acting as an Implementing Agency for the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund (the GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank 
as participants of the GEF, to provide additional assistance towards the financing of
 
Part A and a portion of Parts B and D
 of the Project, and by an agreement of even date 
herewith (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement) between the Recipient and the Bank, 
the Bank is making a grant in an aggregate amount of $4,800,000 (the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant);  
 
(D) 
Part A of the Project will be will be carried out by the Institute for 
Biodiversity and Protected Areas (IBAP), an autonomous entity to be established by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, such Part A to be carried out 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower, as Recipient 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, will make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
provided for in Article II of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement available to IBAP as 
set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Work Program” means the program referred to in 
 
paragraph E.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a community which is selected on the basis of 
eligibility criteria defined in the PIP (as hereinafter defined), and referred to in  
paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and the term Beneficiaries means more 
than one Beneficiary;  
(c) “CIPA” 
means 
Centro de Investigação Pesqueira Aplicada
,
the 
Borrower’s Fisheries Research Institute under the Ministry of Fisheries; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
the framework adopted by the Borrower on January 5, 2004, describing the 
environmental and social planning, review, approval, mitigation, monitoring, training, 
technical assistance, and institutional measures under the Project referred to in  
paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 (g) 
“FCFA” 
and 
"
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine" 
mean the 
currency of Borrower; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“IBAP” means 
Instit
uto de Biodiversidade e Áreas Protegidas, 
the 
Borrower’s Institute for Biodiversity and Protected Areas;
 
(j) 
“IUCN” means The World Conservation Union, an organization 
established on October 4, 1948 comprising States, government agencies, 
academia and non-governmental organization;  
(k) 
“IBAP-IUCN Agreement” means the memorandum of 
understanding referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Micro-project” means a development activity to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary under Part B.1 of the Project which satisfies the eligibility criteria set out in 
paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in more details in the PIP (as 
hereinafter defined);  
(m) 
“Micro-project Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into by a 
Beneficiary and a the PMU (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to the terms, conditions and 
procedures set forth in paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in more details 
in the PIP (as hereinafter defined), for the purpose of carrying out a Micro-project;  
(n) 
“MoA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, 
Hunting and Livestock; 
(o) 
“MoEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
 (p) 
“Process Framework” or “PF” means the mechanism referred to in 
paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted by the Borrower on 
March 11, 2004
,
through which populations living in and around Protected Areas (as 
hereinafter defined) shall participate in determining the restrictions to access to natural 
resources, the assessment of the impact of any such restrictions, the determination of 
remedial measures to redress those impacts on segments of the local population,  and the 
resolution of any grievances, as well as the definition and implementation of a monitoring 
program to assess the adequacy of any remedial measure
;
(q) “Participating 
Protected Area
”
means any of the following Protected 
Areas (as herein defined) of the Borrower: 
João Vieira and Poilão National Marine Park 
created pursuant to Decree 6-A/2000 of August 23, 2000, Orango National Park created 
Page  5
-
4
-
pursuant to Decree 11/2000 of November 30, 2000, Cacheu Natural Park created 
pursuant to Decree 12/2000 of November 30, 2000, Cufada Natural Park created pursuant 
to Decree 13/2000 of November 30, 2000, and shall include the Cantanhez Protected 
Area as referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement, and the term Participating 
Protected Areas means more than one Participating Protected Area; 
(r) 
“Procedures Manual” means the manual to be used in the administration, 
accounting and financial management of the Project, adopted pursuant to 
 
Section 
6.01 
(e) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement 
of the Association;
 
(s) 
“Project Implementation Decree” means the Decree to be issued by the 
Borrower pursuant 
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement defining the overall institutional 
framework for the Project; 
(t) 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the plan to be adopted 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph A.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which shall include the 
criteria, policies, requirements and 
procedures for the implementation of the Project, 
as such plan may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Association;   
(u) 
“Project Management Unit” means the unit referred to in 
 
paragraph A.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(v) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to: (i) the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association and on behalf of the Borrower on 
June 20, 2003; and (ii) the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on 
May 17, 2004 and on behalf of the Borrower on May 18, 2004; 
 (w) 
“
Protected Area” means an area of land or sea located in the Borrower’s 
territory especially dedicated to the protection and maintenance of biological diversity, 
and of natural and associated cultural resources, as regulated in the Borrower’s Protected 
Areas Framework Law (
Lei Quadro das Áreas Protegidas
)
pursuant Decree-Law 3/97 of 
May 22, 1997, and the term Protected Areas means more than one Protected Area; 
 (x) 
“Reserved Fishing Zone” means a regulated fishing area limiting the 
access to and use of its natural resources, which is created within a Protected Area 
pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Protected Areas Framework Law,
 
and the term Reserved 
Fishing Zones means more than one Reserved Fishing Zone
;
Page  6
-
5
-
(y) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the framework dated  
March 11, 2004, outlining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and 
rehabilitation under the Project referred to in paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
 
(z) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for Part C and a 
portion of Parts B and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Fund shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 
2015 and ending August 1, 2044.   Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on August 1, 2024 shall be one and one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy 
for Association lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them 
of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall:  
(i) 
cause IBAP, through the Project Implementation Decree, to carry 
out Part A of the Project;  
(ii) 
through MoEF, carry out Parts B.1, B.2, and D of the Project;  
(iii) 
through its Ministry of Fisheries cause CIPA, pursuant to 
arrangements acceptable to the Association, to carry out Part 
B.3 of the Project; and  
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
through the Office of the Prime Minister, carry out Part C of the 
Project, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of the carrying out Part A of the Project, 
the Borrower, through MoA, shall: 
(a) 
facilitate the transfer of, 
inter alia
,
the appropriate responsibilities, 
personnel and resources to IBAP to enable it to carry out its functions, and have 
free access to the coastal zone data currently managed by MoA’s Coastal 
Planning Unit;   
(b) 
cause IBAP, pursuant to arrangements acceptable to the 
Association, to enter into an agreement with IUCN (the IBAP-IUCN Agreement), 
under terms and condition satisfactory to Borrower and the Association, 
including, 
inter alia
,
that IUCN shall: (i) facilitate the transfer to IBAP of the 
management of the Participating Protected Areas, including but not limited to the 
transfer to IBAP of the field structures, equipment, and documentation currently 
under the responsibility of IUCN’s Protected Areas Nucleus-NAP; (ii) be a 
member of the Steering Committee; and (iii) facilitate access by IBAP to all 
relevant biodiversity information, including biodiversity information available 
from the IUCN networks; and  
 
(c) 
cause IBAP to exercise its rights under the IBAP-IUCN 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause IBAP not to assign, 
Page  10
-
9
-
amend, abrogate or waive the 
 
IBAP-IUCN Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
By not later than 24 months after the Effective Date, provide to the 
Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the 
creation of the Formosa Protected Area in the Administrative Region of Bolama e 
Bijagós, such Protected Area to include a Reserved Fishing Zone. 
 
(b) 
By not later than 36 months after the Effective Date, provide to the 
Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
of
the 
creation of the Cantanhez Protected Area in the Administrative Region of Tombali. 
 
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section and those for Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year:  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; 
and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts 
and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were Report-Based Disbursements or made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress 
reporting obligations set out in paragraphs E and F
 
of
Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association a FMR, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, showing separately funds provided under the 
Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
projected sources and uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the previously forecast and 
actual implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V  
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
(b) 
that the Borrower shall have abrogated or modified the legal status 
of the Participating Protected Areas, or taken any action, including the enactment 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
or issuance of laws or regulations, which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
adversely affect, prevent, or interfere with, the carrying out of the Project or the 
performance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement.  
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as Additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section  
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
 
(a) 
the Project Implementation Decree has been issued by the Borrower in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(b) 
the IBAP has been established under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including with the appointment of its President, 
the Chief Operating Officer, and an accountant, all with qualifications and under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;  
(c) 
the IBAP-IUCN Agreement has been executed between IBAP and 
IUCN; 
(d) 
a Joint Ministerial Decision (
Despacho Ministerial Conjunto) 
between the Borrower’s State Secretary of Natural Resources, Energy and 
Industry and the MoA has been issued in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association transferring the responsibility for managing the Cufada Natural Park 
to IBAP;  
(e) 
the Borrower has adopted or caused to be adopted a Project 
Implementation Plan and the Procedures Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(f) 
the Borrower has provided the Annual Work Program for the first 
year of Project implementation; 
(g) 
the PMU has been established under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, as referred to in paragraph A.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
this Agreement, including with the recruitment of an independent auditor in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
the Borrower has adopted a financial management system 
satisfactory to the Association and retained an accountant, within the PMU, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
(i) 
a fisheries coordinator and an environmental impact assessment 
coordinator have been recruited by CIPA and the Office of the Prime Minister, 
respectively, with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(j) 
the Steering Committee has been established as referred to in  
paragraph A.1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and its corresponding 
members appointed, all under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(k) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, 
have been fulfilled.   
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Economia e Finanças 
 
C. P. 67 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
Bissau 
 
Guinea-Bissau 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
 Facsimile: 
 
MEF 
 
   257 
MEF 
B1 
 201626 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
By 
/s/ Henrique da Silva 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
Mahmood A. Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
                      100% 
 
(a) For Part B of the Project                   300,000 
 
(b) For Part C of the Project                     30,000                        
 
(c) For Part D of the Project                     20,000                        
 
(2) 
Works 
                      100% 
 
For Part B of the Project 
               80,000 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services and audits 
 
100% 
 
(including Training and Workshops) 
 
(a) For Part B of the Project                    500,000 
 
(b) For Part C of the Project                    250,000 
 
(c) For Part D of the Project                    270,000                        
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 
100% 
 
(a) For Part B of the Project                      60,000 
 
(b) For Part C of the Project                      50,000 
 
(c) For Part D of the Project                      30,000                   
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
Amount of the Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be financed
(5) 
Refunding of 
   268,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
  
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
 Advances 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
    242,000 
 
________
TOTAL 2,100,000 
 
======= 
   
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
the incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of 
vehicles, boats, fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, office rent, travel, 
per diem and allowances, travel and accommodation, 
and reasonable bank charges related 
to the operation of the Special Account, but excluding 
salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
servants. 
3. 
For purposes of this Agreement, it is understood that the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the 
provisions of a decision of t
he
Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance convened to the Association through letters dated March 14, 2003 
and May 27, 2003, respectively, confirming the
 exemption of taxes and custom duties 
levied in the territory of the Borrower on works, goods and services for this Project.  In 
the event of any change which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such 
works, goods and services, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contracts; (b) works costing less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; (d) services of individual consultants and audits costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; and (e) training, workshops and Incremental Operating Costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
6. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the  
six-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in FCFA a special deposit account 
in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals for payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; or (ii) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit 
Agreement. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means 
the amount of  FCFA 156,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 
78,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 400,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount, as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals, as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures, as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 The 
object
ive of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s institutional 
framework and build human resource capacity to protect and sustainably manage 
its coastal and biological resources. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Protected Areas and Threatened Species Management
1. 
Institutional strengthening of IBAP for the purposes of assisting it in the 
carrying out of national policies and strategies for biodiversity conservation and 
Protected Areas management through, 
inter alia
,
the development of internal 
administrative and financial operating procedures, the equipping of both IBAP 
headquarters and Protected Areas, the recruitment of staff, and the provision of 
training. 
2. 
Carrying out of management activities in the Participating Protected Areas 
such as demarcation of boundaries, patrolling, maintaining dialogue of resident 
population through meetings, monitoring the use of natural resources by resident 
population, and chairing meetings of Participating Protected Areas management 
committees that includes representatives of communities in a decentralized 
participatory manner. 
3. 
Preparing and carrying out action plans with the overall purpose of 
improving the management of the following threatened species: turtles, manatees 
and primates.  
4. 
Carrying out of technical studies for the purpose of creating the Cantanhez 
Protected Area. 
Part B
:
Natural Resources Management
1. 
Financing of Micro-projects in and around the Participating Protected 
Areas to assist communities in identifying and implementing small-scale, 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
biodiversity-friendly activities, such activities to include, 
inter alia
:
supporting
 
artisanal fisheries, diversification and transformation of agricultural and forest 
products and promoting renewable energy alternatives.  
2. 
Carrying out of studies for the purpose of promoting the creation of a 
sustainable private mechanism for financing activities such as those described in 
Part B.1 above, and for supporting the cost of operating the protected areas 
system. 
3. 
Carrying out of participatory management and sustainable use of Reserved 
Fishing Zones and other fishing areas, through activities including, 
inter alia
,
support of monitoring, control and surveillance of artisanal and industrial 
fisheries.  
Part C
:
Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework
Development and implementation of an environmental and social 
safeguard framework through the preparation and adoption of policies and 
procedures necessary for ensuring that environmental and social concerns are 
taken into account in the development decision-making process.  Specific 
activities include: 
1. 
Building the Borrower’s capacity to evaluate and monitor the environmental and 
social implications of development proposals, with an emphasis on understanding the 
potential environmental and social impacts associated with petroleum exploration and 
fisheries. 
2. 
Supporting the mainstreaming of environmental law through 
harmonization of the national legislation to meet the Borrower’s commitments to 
biodiversity-related international conventions. 
Part D
:
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation 
Supporting Project implementation, coordination, financial management, 
monitoring and evaluation through, 
inter alia, 
the provision of technical advisory 
services and training, financing of operating costs, minor rehabilitation works, 
and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles. 
*
*
*
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 (a) 
Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost respectively $150,000 and $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured or assembled in the country and domestic 
contractors in the territory of the Borrower. 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less then $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
the aggregate amount not exceeding $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
the aggregate amount indicated not exceeding $500,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to the 
aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 as specified in the Procurement Plan 
may be procured from UNDP’s Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to the 
aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such Procurement Plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review 
(a) Goods
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(b) Works
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000
 
equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for  financial audit, works supervision and other tasks of standard nature 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
 
Selection Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
Page  32
-
31 - 
 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2.
 
Prior Review
(a) Firms
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 during 
the first year of Project implementation, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 (b) 
Individuals
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more; and (ii) the first three contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$50,000, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
Terms of Reference and Short List
The terms of reference and the short list of firms or individuals, as the case may 
be, shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval in respect of all 
contracts for services of consulting firms not exceeding $50,000 
services
,
and in respect 
of all contracts for services of individual consultants not exceeding $30,000.  
3.
 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  33
-
32 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Schedule 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
Establish and thereafter maintain the PMU within MoEF, throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, with structure, functions and responsibilities, and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(b) 
Establish and thereafter maintain the Steering Committee, throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, with membership, mandate and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association for the purposes of, 
inter alia
,
oversee the overall Project 
implementation, and provide advice and policy guidance and facilitate coordination 
among 
the Borrower’s ministries and agencies.  
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, requirements and procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan 
and in the Procedures Manual; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or 
waived, the Project Implementation Plan or in the Procedures Manual, or any provisions 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Without limitation upon the other provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the relevant Annual Work Program referred 
to in Part E.1 (b) of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-projects and Terms and Conditions for Financing 
1. 
To be eligible for financing, a Micro-project under Part B.1 of the Project shall 
be: 
 
(a) 
initiated and identified by the relevant local community as an activity, 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
 appraised and carried out in accordance with the procedures and 
conditions set forth in the PIP; 
Page  34
-
33 - 
 
(c) 
economically, environmentally, socially and technically viable in 
accordance with the standards specified in the PIP;  
(d) 
in compliance with the standards set forth in the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental management; 
and 
 
(e) 
satisfy any other requirements of eligibility specified in the PIP. 
C. Micro-project 
Agreements
1. 
For carrying out Micro-projects under Parts B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
conclude an agreement with the appropriate representative of each Beneficiary, whereby 
the Borrower shall agree to provide to each Beneficiary goods, works and/or services, as 
the case may be, from the proceeds of the Credit, on a non-reimbursable basis, and on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (the Micro-project Agreement), 
including the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph B of this Schedule and details of 
disbursement schedules and procurement procedures as set forth in Schedule 3 of this 
Agreement, details of any further environmental and social safeguards as may be needed, 
and the following additional terms and conditions: 
 
(a) 
Require the PMU to ensure the execution of the Micro-projects by the 
Beneficiaries with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, and maintain adequate 
records. 
 
(b) 
The right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants included in 
the relevant Micro-project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents. 
 
(c) 
Obtain from Beneficiary all such information, as the Association shall 
reasonably request relating to the implementation of a Micro-project, and the 
performance of the Beneficiary executing the Micro-project. 
 
(d) 
Suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to benefit from the use 
of the goods, works or services under the Micro-project upon failure by such Beneficiary 
to perform its obligations under the Micro-project Agreement.  
 
(e) 
Promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of any Micro-project under 
Page  35
-
34 - 
 
Part B.1 of the Project, or the performance by the relevant Beneficiary of its obligations 
under the relevant Micro-project Agreement. 
 
(f) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the relevant Micro-project 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the 
Micro-project Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
(g) 
The stipulation that in case of conflict between any Micro-project 
Agreement and this Agreement, the latter shall prevail. 
D. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), Process Framework 
(PF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
Carry out or cause the Project to be carried in accordance with the 
environmental, social and resettlement guidelines, rules and procedures defined in the 
ESMF, the PF and the RPF (including the preparation and implementation of the 
appropriate action plans for compensation or resettlement, as the case may be, in 
accordance with the PF and the RPF, said plans to be in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association); and  
 
(b) 
Not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the ESMF, the 
PF or the RPF, or any provisions thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all measures necessary for the carrying out of 
the ESMF, the PF and the RPF are taken in a timely manner; and (b) the progress reports 
referred to in paragraphs E.1(c) and F.2 of this Schedule shall include adequate 
information on monitoring the measures defined in the ESMF, the PF and the RPF. 
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
prior to commencing any Micro-project and when required under the 
ESMF, carry out an environmental and social impact assessment in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
in the event that an environmental and social impact assessment of a 
Micro-project determines that such a Micro-project, if carried out, would have in the 
Page  36
-
35 - 
 
opinion of the Association a potential for adverse environmental impact, not approve 
such a Micro-project until an appropriate action under the ESMF has been discussed and 
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association to mitigate such potential adverse 
impact; and 
 
(c) 
thereafter cause the relevant Beneficiary to carry out such agreed 
mitigation action referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above. 
4. 
Prior to commencing any Micro-project involving involuntary resettlement or 
involuntary acquisition of land, the Borrower shall cause the relevant Beneficiary to 
prepare and implement appropriate action plan or plans, as the case maybe, for 
compensation or resettlement, in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, 
such action plan or plans to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  
E. 
Monitoring, Annual Work Program and Reporting
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare an annual work program in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association (the Annual Work Program), and furnish it to the Association, on or 
about September 30 of each year, such Program to describe the activities to be carried out 
and expenditures to be made under the Project for the following calendar year;  
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph F.1 
(a) of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Association, by July of each year, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph F.1(c) of this Section, 
and thereafter act promptly and diligently in order to take, any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or 
to implement such measures as may have been agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
Page  37
-
36 - 
 
F. Midterm 
Review
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than  
April 30, 2007, a comprehensive midterm review aimed at: (a) documenting progress 
toward achieving the Project objectives; (b) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; (c) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project 
as of the date of the review; and (d) an overall evaluation of the Project against the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
2. 
The Borrower shall not later than four weeks prior to the midterm review referred 
to in paragraph F.1 above, furnish to the Association a midterm report, in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in the Project implementation.  
3. 
Promptly after completing the midterm review, the Borrower shall take all 
measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said review for the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon.    
 
Page  38
-
37 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators to be used for Project implementation are as follows: 
1.  By the end of the Project, at least 3,500 square km of land and water under 
improved management, as defined in the PIP. 
2. 
As of January 1, 2007, the number of infringements of the applicable regulatory 
framework related to the Reserved Fishing Zones by fishing vessels decreases by 
10% per year in relation to the baseline established in calendar year 2006. 
3. 
As of January 1, 2007, the Borrower provides sufficient financial 
resources to cover the operational and maintenance costs of all fisheries 
surveillance activities (including surveillance stations, vessels and 
patrols).
 
4. 
By the end of the Project, all of public and private development projects eligible 
for review are submitted for environmental impact assessment review prior to 
being implemented, by the end of the Project. 
 
