                                     Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                    Report No: AB472

Project Name                        GUINEA-BISSAU - Coastal and Biodiversity Management Project
Region                              Africa Regional Office
Sector                              General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme                               Environmental policies and institutions (P); Biodiversity (P); Other environment
                                    and natural resources management (S)
Project                             P083453
Supplemental Project                P049513
Borrower(s)                         GOV. OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Implementing Agency(ies)
                                    World Bank
                                    Address: 1818 H Street
                                    Contact Person: Christophe Crepin
                                    Tel: 202-4739727          Fax: 202-6140893           Email: ccrepin@worldbank.org
Environment Category                B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                   February 13, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                 February 17, 2004
Bank Approval Date                  May 27, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
   Guinea Bissau is one of the world's poorest countries. Its development index is amongst the lowest, with over
   50% of the population living below the poverty line, a life expectancy at birth of 43 years, and a high level of
   inequality of income distribution. The country's estimated population in 2001 was approximately 1.3 million,
   with a growth rate of 2.23%.

   Guinea Bissau's current and future economy is highly dependent on its natural resources. The sale of cashew
   nuts and fisheries licenses are currently the country's two best income earners (representing approximately
   87% of the country's export earnings), but exploitation of non-renewable resources, particularly bauxite,
   phosphate and petroleum, is touted by Government as a key potential element for future economic growth.

   Root causes of biodiversity loss

   With approximately 80% of the population currently residing in the coastal zone where most economic activity
   is concentrated, pressure on coastal and marine resources is increasing. The root cause of biodiversity loss is
   poverty, and the ensuing lack of economic alternatives. Natural resources currently form the foundation of the
   livelihood strategies for the majority of the population, for whom few alternatives exist. Furthermore, high
   poverty and low awareness of the necessity of ecosystem health for the provision of environmental goods and
   services implies little incentive for sustainable management of the coastal biodiversity capital.

   Subsistence livelihoods have led to deforestation and soil degradation, which have historically been seen as the
   basic environmental problems confronting Guinea Bissau. Within the coastal zone more specifically, the
   major threats to ecosystem function and habitat quality have resulted from subsistence activities such as
   itinerant agriculture, rice production, artisanal fishing and the extraction of fuelwood from forests and
   mangroves for the production of charcoal and the smoking of fish. The lack of appropriate management of
   coastal and marine natural resources as well as the depletion of key species within fragile ecosystems could
   cause severe biodiversity loss (see Annex 6: Indicative Threats and Root Causes Analysis and Identification of
   Program Response Measures).

                                                     2
                                                                                                         PID



Potential threats to biodiversity

The coastal zone also houses resources identified as potential motors of future economic growth, namely
fisheries and offshore petroleum. Guinea Bissau's capacity to manage these resources sustainably is very
weak. For example, fisheries are at present mainly exploited by foreign vessels through negotiated fishing
licenses or by migrants from Senegal and Guinea. The fishing licenses do not set quotas, but rather rely on the
payment of fees proportionate to captures, even though fish stocks are insufficiently known. Guinea Bissau
does not have the capacity to monitor the impact of fishing on stocks, to control fishing licenses, or to collect
fishing fees. Ultimately, intense industrial fishing of key species such as shrimps could change the ecological
balance of coastal ecosystems and threaten their integrity. Artisanal fisheries present another set of issues.
Much of the fish caught by artisanal fishermen is landed in Guinea or in Senegal. Furthermore, global
markets for high-priced foods, such as shark fins, have led to intense overexploitation and a rapid collapse of
source stocks.

The potential for petroleum production in Guinea-Bissau and Southern Senegal was first recognized in the
80s. The newly elected Government in early 2000 rekindled international interest. Petroguin, Guinea-Bissau
parastatal oil company, then retained the services of First Exchange Corporation (FE) of Houston, Texas, to
promote and oversee oil development. Early estimates suggest a potential of 500 million-3 billion barrels, split
between Guinea-Bissau's shared economic zone with Senegal and its exclusive economic zone. The area
currently opened to exploration comprises Guinea Bissau's entire coast, including the Bolama-Bijagos
Archipelago. Production will go ahead if commercially viable oil fields are found. Offshore oil production
could have huge environmental and social impacts, unless necessary safeguards are developed and
implemented.

The above threats are compounded by the inclusion of the Department of Environment in the same ministry
that hosts the national petroleum development parastatal, Petroguin, thus creating a conflict of interest that
could hinder the sustainable management of coastal biodiversity.

Threats to marine resources

 Other significant threats to the coastal and marine biodiversity of Guinea-Bissau is illegal, unreported
 and unregulated fishing by industrial fishing vessels, particularly in areas or zones reserved for
 artisanal fishing or in marine protected areas.

 Foreign vessels routinely encroach upon the country's marine protected areas and the artisanal fishing
 zone (delineated as the area within 12 nautical miles of the shoreline), creating conflicts with artisanal
 fishers and damaging the fragile ecosystems protected by the Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) through
 activities such as bottom-trawling. Furthermore, both unlicensed and licensed vessels often fish in
 reserved fishing zones and marine protected areas using trawl with single mesh size, e.g. 60 ­ 65 mm
 for shrimp, for all fisheries.

 For this reason, in order to manage the reserved fishing zones in Guinea-Bissau, and indeed to help
 ensure the sustainable use and protection of all of the country's coastal and marine biodiversity,
 strengthened capabilities in the public sector for the Monitoring, Control and Surveillance (MCS) of
 industrial fishing vessels is urgently needed.

 Three challenges prevent effective management of reserved fishing zones. The first is the encroachment
 of vessels into shallow waters close to the islands but also well-organized foreign artisanal fishermen
 landing their catch on industrial vessels. The second is the inappropriate or absence of a strategic
 management scheme for fisheries. The third is the general weak capacity and lack of infrastructure and

                                                     3
                                                                                                         PID


 equipment of institutions that are supposed to manage fisheries.

 In order to address these obstacles, the Costal and Biodiversity Management Project will support the
 establishment of a monitoring and surveillance system for fisheries. It will also test a fisheries control
 system and invest in equipment, infrastructure and operating cost of the institutions in charge of
 managing fisheries.

 However, none of this will sustain if the political will for managing fisheries exist. For this reason a
 process leading to a consensus on fisheries management will be initiated as part of this project. The
 process will build on the findings of the Economic Sector Work (ESW) and include all major
 stakeholders associated with fisheries in Guinea-Bissau, including government representatives, civil
 society representatives, the fishing industry, donors, as well as regional fisheries organizations. The
 process will be co-designed with major donors, who will be assisting with investments to address
 obstacles preventing responsible fishing industries.


National policy and institutional framework to address issues and constraints

Despite the severe constraints it faces, the GOGB recognizes the importance of maintaining the quality of the
environment and of the natural resource base. The four prongs of the national development program for
2001-2010 are: i) economic growth and poverty alleviation, ii) provision of basic social and economic
infrastructure, iii) demobilization and reinsertion of soldiers (consolidation of peace and national
reconciliation) and iv) good governance. clearly acknowledges the critical role natural resources have to play
in overall economic development as well as in poverty alleviation. Priority is given to stimulation of
sustainable economic growth based on diversified rural development and the rational exploitation of
agricultural, forestry and fishery resources to alleviate poverty.

With respect to natural resources and the environment, the development program outlines four principal
objectives: i) improving access to potable water; ii) improving the understanding of the potential represented
by the country's non-renewable resources; iii) capacity building vis-à-vis technologies that increase the value
of local resources; and iv) ensuring sustainable exploitation of the resource base combined with judicious
protection of the environment. The strategy for achieving the last objective includes the elaboration of a
national policy and plan for environmental management, the management of parks and other protected areas
and the elaboration and implementation of a biodiversity management program in the coastal areas.

The above objectives and strategies are reinforced by several initiatives:

1) The assessment of environmental issues "Towards a strategic agenda for environmental management"
    prepared with the support of the World Bank in 1993, which identified the management of protected areas
    as a priority to counter loss of offshore fisheries and biodiversity.
2) Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The Department of Environment is preparing the NEAP, with the
    support of UNDP/UNSO. Its objective is to provide Guinea Bissau with planning and management
    instruments for its natural resources. Areas of concern include salinization of rice paddies, deforestation,
    bush fires and wildlife depletion, overfishing, destruction of mangroves and loss of biodiversity along the
    coast.
3) National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP). The Department of Environment is preparing
    the NBSAP, with the support of UNDP/GEF. The NBSAP is a participatory initiative to help Guinea
    Bissau assess biological biodiversity, identify threats, and suggest options and measures to ensure the
    conservation, ecologically sustainable utilization and equitable sharing of biodiversity.
4) Clearing House Mechanism. The General Directorate for Environment is establishing the Clearing House

                                                        4
                                                                                                            PID


       Mechanism in cooperation with the Convention on Biological Diversity for Guinea-Bissau, with the
       support of UNDP/GEF. The GEF Council has approved funding in April 2001 to set up biodiversity
       information systems and for support for hardware, software and training.
   5) National Capacity Self-Assessment (NCSA) for Global Environment Management. The aim of the NCSA
       is to conduct an assessment and a thorough analysis of the capacity needs and constraints that the country
       is facing regarding its efforts to solve the problems of global environmental management as set forth in the
       Rio Conventions and other related international instruments. Currently the NCSA is in preparation and
       expected to be funded by the GEF in 2004. These preparatory activities include preliminary consultations
       to conceive a process of self-assessment for the enhancement of capacities, as well as to prepare a funding
       proposal request for that assessment.


   Starting in 1988, the GOGB has been implementing activities in the coastal zone. IUCN has been a key
   partner since the beginning, with the financial support of the Government of Switzerland. The European
   Union, France, Portugal, Canada and the Netherlands have each provided additional support. The activities
   that they funded have mainly focused on the coastal area, but sometimes their scope was national. Most
   remarkably, coastal planning activities have stimulated the growth of local NGOs, which have in return
   strongly supported these activities. The efforts of the last 15 years have significantly contributed to the
   sustainable management of biodiversity, by establishing a network of protected areas and by involving
   communities in the management of natural resources. The main achievements include:

   ·   Establishment of the Bolama-Bijagos Biosphere Reserve (1996).
   ·   Enactment of a framework law on protected areas in 1997, which provides for the devolution of
       management responsibilities for protected areas to the community level, to create ownership and to initiate
       "sustainable development poles".
   ·   Establishment of a protected area network, including the João Vieira and Poilão National Park, the
       Orango National Park, the Cacheu Mangrove Natural Park, and the Cufada Lagoon Natural Park.
       Studies have been completed for the conversion of the Cantanhez game reserve into a protected area.
   ·   Establishment of a Protected Area Nucleus (NAP), which manages the Orango, João Vieira and Cacheu
       parks, as well as the Bolama-Bijagos Biosphere Reserve.
   ·   Creation of a Coastal Planning Unit, which has catalyzed numerous geographic as well as biodiversity
       inventory and monitoring studies.
   ·   Support to sustainable development and poverty alleviation, through the funding of micro-projects
       focusing on fisheries, food security and forestry, in partnership with national NGOs.
   ·   Environmental education and awareness raising, targeting national decision-makers, technicians, as well as
       school children and local communities.

   More recently, during the Bubaque+10 meeting in March 2001, the Government publicly announced its
   intention to establish an official organ to manage protected areas and wildlife, thus filling a critical
   institutional gap.


2. Objectives
   The Government of Guinea Bissau (GOGB) has long recognized the importance of its coastal and marine
   natural resources to both the local and national economy, and is aware of the importance of these resources to
   the sub-region's economy. GOBG has requested that Bank for assistance in efforts to manage the coastal zone
   and related biodiversity.

   The aim of the project is to facilitate responsible management of natural resource management in and around
   of five protected areas and in three reserved fishing zones, and to assist the country in setting up a process of

                                                        5
                                                                                                           PID


   environmental and social screening of development projects in the country.

   The development objective of the proposed Coastal and Biodiversity Management Project is articulated the
   following way: Government agencies and natural resources users collaboratively manage coastal
   environment and biodiversity for both conservation and sustainable development ends

   The project will create a new institution, the Institute for Biodiversity and Protected Areas (IBAP), for
   managing the network of protected areas. The creation of IBAP is a natural extension of past park
   management efforts led by IUCN-The World Conservation Union, in which models for participatory park
   management has shown to be successful. In addition, the project will implement community development
   activities funded by a micro-finance mechanism (the FIAL), and it will strengthen the community-based
   management of reserved fishing zones. The project will seek to have a private foundation created to take over
   the continuation FIAL and with establishing an endowment for future financing of the IBAP. Finally, the
   project will create a unit for environmental and social safeguards screening of development projects in the
   country, which is a function that does not currently exist within any existing government agencies.


3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
   The program fits solidly within the GEF Operational Program on Coastal and Marine Ecosystems, a priority
   area for the first, second and third Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity. The
   Bank, as a GEF implementing agency, can therefore bring incremental grant resources to assist Guinea Bissau
   in tackling coastal and marine biodiversity issues of global environmental concern. This will include
   ecosystem protection as well as increasing capacity for sustaining this protection over time. Without these
   incremental resources many of the proposed program activities would likely go unfunded in the face of the
   numerous competing demands on the country's extremely limited budgetary resources and the current
   financially constrained donor environment.

   The Bank can also add value through providing technical assistance for designing and implementing coastal
   and biodiversity projects that draw on the worldwide experience gained through management of its growing
   portfolio. The Bank has considerable experience to offer in institution and capacity building, be it for coastal
   management or environmental and social protection mechanisms, and its environmental safeguards are
   recognized as setting international standards. In addition, the Bank has recognized the value of trusts as an
   instrument for providing long-term support to biodiversity conservation and has been a leader in supporting
   their establishment in Africa and elsewhere. Through this, the Bank has gained experience that will enable it
   to provide valuable technical support for preparing and implementing a trust, as well as supervision capacity.
   The Bank's increasing experience in facilitating programmatic multi-donor approaches leaves it well placed to
   leverage additional funds from other donors and the private sector.


4. Description
The project aims to strengthen the institutional framework and build human resource capacity to protect
and sustainably use Guinea Bissau's coastal biological resources. It comprises of three inter-related
components plus one component for program management.

Component I - Protected Areas and Endangered Species Management

Through this component, the project will establish a financially and administratively autonomous institution
- The Institute for Biodiversity and Protected Areas (IBAP) - for managing the country's network of
protected areas. By engaging with local communities inside and outside of the parks, IBAP will ensure that
parks are effectively protected. The network of protected areas includes four existing PAs and one to be
created during the project.

The project will also support IBAP in developing and implementing species action plans for threatened

                                                       6
                                                                                                           PID


species.

Component II ­ Natural Resource Management

This component will establish a financing mechanism for community development initiatives, the Fund for
Local Environmental Initiatives (FIAL). The fund will target local communities and natural resources
users in and around the five protected areas by assisting communities in identifying and implementing
biodiversity-friendly approaches to natural resource management and local development.

Once the FIAL is operating successfully, the project will undertake activities to have a private foundation
established, the Foundation for Biodiversity in Guinea Bissau (FBGB) for which it is anticipated that
one funding windows will be a formalized FIAL financing mechanism, and the other being a funding
mechanism for supporting the cost of operating the protected areas system of IBAP.

The project will also implement participatory management and sustainable use of of three Reserved
Fishing Zones (RFZ) that are critical fish breeding and nursery areas for the coastal ecosystem. Of
importance here is the monitoring, control and surveillance of artisanal and industrial fisheries having an
impact on the reserved fishing zones. The project will support the government agencies responsible for
monitoring, control and surveillancce with capital investments for equipments and it will subsidize the
operating cost while a more durable solution is found through the process of a national discussion of
fisheries which the project also will support.

Component III ­ Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework

This component will establish and implement an environmental and social safeguard framework. The
project will support development of policies and procedures needed to ensure that environmental and social
concerns are taken into account in the development decision-making process.

It will build national capacity to evaluate and monitor the environmental and social implications of
development proposals, with a particular emphasis on understanding the opportunities and constraints
associated with petroleum exploitation and industrial fisheries.

In addition, it will support the mainstreaming of environmental law through harmonization of the national
legislation to meet internal commitments to biodiversity-related international conventions (Biodiversity,
Ramsar, CITES, Bonn).

Component IV ­ Program management and M&E

A Project Management Unit will secure the daily management and tracking of implementation, be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation of both progress and impact, and facilitating working
relationships between the implementing agencies.

A Project Management Group comprised of all key implementing agencies will ensure coordination of
project activities,

An inter-disciplinary Steering Committee will further promote coordination and synergies between
players.


Protected Areas and Endangered Species Management
Natural Resource Management
Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework
Program management and M&E

                                                       7
                                                                                                         PID


5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.16)
IDA ($3.00)
EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION ($1.28)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($4.80)
Total Project Cost: $10.68

6. Implementation
   Biodiversity conservation activities implemented under Component 1 will be implemented by IBAP,
   with oversight by the Ministry of Agriculture, which currently oversees both the Protected Areas Unit
   (NAP) and Coastal Planning Unit (GPC). The only major institutional change required is the transfer
   of the Lagoa de Cufada initiative from the Ministry of (non-renewable) Natural Resources and Energy,
   to the Ministry of Agriculture. The Project will initially provide direct support to NAP and GPC, in
   partnership with IUCN's current support and within the first year when IBAP becomes operational
   responsibilities will gradually be transferred. MoUs that commites the various partners to this transfer
   will be reviewed during appraisal.

   Natural Resource Management activities under Component 2 will be implemented in part by two
   different ministries. The project management unit, attached to the Ministry of Finance, will be
   responsible for implementing community development initiatives of the FIAL. FIAL funds will either
   be allocated to eligible activities proposed directly by communities, or through NGOs that will serve as
   facilitators.

   Activities in the reserved fishing zones will be implemented by the Fisheries Research Institute (CIPA)
   under the Ministry of Fisheries. Memorandums of understanding (MOUs) signed between CIPA and
   the Industrial Fisheries Directorate, as well as with the Alta Autoridade do Estado para a Fiscalisacao
   Maritima (AA). Oversight for the activity will be provided by the Project Steering Committee chaired
   by the Minister of Finance, and project funds would go directly to CIPA for this activity. Institutional
   arrangements would still need to be finalized for how specific tasks would be implemented by the
   Industrial Fisheries Directorate of the Ministry of Fisheries and the AA, whether through separate
   accounts under the Steering Committee, or through sub-contract from CIPA outlined in the MOUs.
   The MCS Technical Advisor appointed by the Project to implement this activity would be located in
   CIPA, but report directly to the Project Management and Steering Committee, and would also work
   closely with the AA and the Industrial Fisheries Directorate of the Ministry of Fisheries.

   The activities of the EIA unit under Component 3 will be managed out of the Prime Ministers office.
   The reason why this unit will not be located under the State Secretary for Natural Resources, Energy
   and Environment (SNREE) is because it would provoke a conflict of interest. The SNREE cannot both
   be exploiting resources and policing the environmental and social impact of the exploitation.

    For Component 4, a small Program Management Unit (PMU) hosted by the Ministry of Finance will
    provide project coordination. It will be headed by a national coordinator supported by an international
    chief technical advisor. The financial management and procurement will be managed by the Private
    Sector Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project (PSRRP) also financed through the World Bank. Two
    staff position will be funded by the project in the PSRRP to absorb the increased workload. An
    adminstrator within the PMU will ensure smooth coordination on questions related to finances and
    procurement.

                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                                     PID



Day to day coordination and oversight of Program activities would be ensured through a Program
Management Group (PMG) comprised of designated representatives (focal points) from each of the
executing partners, representing a specific component. The PMG would meet on a monthly basis. It
would be responsible for reviewing the implementation plans and budgets for each component.

A Steering Committee, composed of higher level representatives from each of the implementing
agencies and other key stakeholders, such as NGOs and project affected communities, would ensure
policy level oversight of the program, promote incorporation of the Program's objectives into
sector-specific and national development programming. The Steering Committee would review
progress and approve work plans and budgets, and to address any problems or conflicts. It would
meet bi-annually or on an ad hoc basis as needed.

Finally, a Donor Committee will be set up to coordinate the support among donors to the project. It
will be important to continue to make donors aware of the importance of their support to project
activities in the present project, but also for the next phase project where a significant endowment is
likely to be needed.



                               Projet de Gestion de la Zone Côtière et de la Biodiversité
                                                          Tutelle: Ministre des Finances


               Comite de Pilotage                            Unité de Gestion                            Comite de Bailleurs
                                                                                                            Constitution: Bailleurs de fonds
               Chair: Ministre des Finances                Tutelle: Ministre des Finances
                                                                                                            Supervision de projet conjointes
             Constitution: Min Agr, Min Pêche,                Coordonnateur National
                Min Fin, S.d'E Env, 3 ONGs                Conseiller Technique Principale
               Réunions Annuelles + ad hoc                   Administrateur, Secrétaire                    Comite de Gestion
                                                             Resp. Financier (PSRRP)                        Chair: Coordonnateur National
                                                        Resp. Passation Marche (PSRRP)               Constitution: Point Focales. Réunion mensuels



                     IBAP                             FIAL                              Pêche                      Sauvegarde/EIA
            Tutelle: Ministre de l'Agr.      Tutelle: Ministre de Fin.         Tutelle: Ministre de Pêche       Tutelle: Cab. du Premier Min.

                 Président (PF)            Directeur Exécutif FIAL (PF)       Coordonnateur (CIPA) (PF)             EIA Coordonnateur (PF)
              Conseiller Technique       Assistance Technique par UICN          Conseiller Technique                  Conseiller Technique
                 Administrateur                  Resp. Financier                     Administrateur                         Technicien
                   Comptable                Resp. Passation Marche                         ---                            Administrateur
                    Secrétaire                     Secrétaire                (Coordonnateur Surveillance)                         ---
               CEMB Coordinateur              2-5 Techniciens (STP)           (Coordonnateur Pêche Art.)        (Revues des EIA, sous-traité)
              2 CEMB Techniciens                5-10 Facilitateurs                         ---                  (Suivi Conformité, sous-traité)
                        ---                             ---                     (Conseillos de Pesca)
              5 Directeurs de Park       (FIAL Conseil d'Administration)         (Agents DSFI/DPA)
                  5 Techniciens            (Comite Finance des Park)                       ---
                    20 Gardes                           ---                   (Surv. Bijagos, sous-traité)
                  Support staff             (Équipe PRA, sous-traité)
              CACBB Coordinateur
               CACBB Technicien
                        ---
           Directeur Casa Ambiante BB
                 Administrateur
                   Technicien
                  Support staff




Monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The project management unit, under the oversight of the
Ministry of Finance will have overall responsibility for program monitoring and evaluation. The PMU
will contract independent consultants who, working in collaboration with the implementing agencies
responsible for each component, would develop a detailed monitoring and evaluation plan for
measuring program implementation progress and impact. This plan will clearly specify the key
indicators/data needs and sources, who will collect the data and how frequently for each component as
well as for the program as a whole. Participatory monitoring would be used whenever possible, to
create a sense of ownership and to promote community understanding of program objectives. Impact

                                                        9
                                                                                                              PID


     indicators would be developed in accordance with guidelines for GEF-financed projects and would
     include biological/ecological and socioeconomic parameters.

     The PMU will be directly responsible for monitoring and reporting on implementation progress, and
     will produce consolidated semi-annual implementation progress reports, based upon inputs from each
     of the lead implementing agency focal points. These reports will serve as the basis of semi-annual
     review meetings. (These would be expected to correspond with Bank supervision missions).

     With respect to evaluating program impact, it is recognized that biological/ecological impacts
     generally are measurable over a longer time frame than currently proposed for program
     implementation. It is therefore intended that the independent consultants contracted by the PMU
     review IBAP's Biodiversity Studies and Monitoring Center and CIPA's monitoring and data collection
     plans to ensure they both meet program evaluation needs and lay a strong foundation for monitoring
     biodiversity trends over the long term. In addition, the consultants would be responsible for
     conducting beginning, mid and end term beneficiary assessments, and for evaluating and consolidating
     program impact monitoring data into beginning, mid- and end-term evaluation reports. These reports
     would serve as the basis for mid-term and completion reviews.




7. Sustainability
   Sustainability is a central theme of the proposed program which, building upon the achievements of the past
   13 years, aims to turn a corner in Guinea Bissau's approach to management of the coastal zone. Up to this
   point, Guinea Bissau's environmental and coastal zone program has been heavily reliant upon project-linked,
   external technical and financial support. As on going donor programs draw to a close and future sources of
   external financing become increasingly rare and unpredictable, the introduction of mechanisms to secure
   institutional and financial sustainability represents a crucial and timely step towards ensuring the long term
   sustainability of the country's coastal and biodiversity management efforts.

   Thus the Project, through creation of IBAP and the aim of catalyzing the establishment of a private
   Foundation, seeks to provide a sustainable institutional and financial framework for coastal and marine
   biodiversity management, while keeping the burden on government to a minimum. Sustainability of IBAP
   activities will depend upon securing: i) sufficient capital for the Foundation to meet IBAP's minimum
   operational and work program needs; ii) an appropriate governance structure with satisfactory management
   guidelines; iii) a sound framework governing IBAP's relationship with its parent ministry; and iv) commitment
   of beneficiaries and other stakeholders to participate in the conservation activities under the program.

   Furthermore, recognizing that coastal and marine biodiversity concerns cannot be addressed in isolation, and
   will be affected by broader environmental and natural resource management decisions in and outside the
   coastal zone, the program also seeks to establish a broader legal and institutional framework, primarily in the
   form of environmental assessment regulations and harmonization of legislation, to ensure the judicious
   management of environmental and social factors and thus promote adoption of a sustainable economic
   development path.

   Project design also emphasizes human resource capacity building, another key aspect to the sustainability of
   program objectives. Human resource capacity building is a long term process, the program will contribute to
   attaining this long term goal by: i) supporting specific, targeted training activities; ii) promoting on the job
   training and skill building; and iii) empowering local communities; particularly vulnerable groups such as
   women, and iv) increasing stakeholder capacity to jointly plan, manage and monitor biodiversity conservation
   and sustainable use of the coastal zone, and environmental impact assessment processes more broadly.

   At the local level, the program seeks to test and develop alternative livelihood strategies that will promote

                                                      10
                                                                                                             PID


   sustainable use of the local resource base. The Sustainable Development Fund mechanism itself has
   deliberately not been designed to be sustainable in the absence of follow on funding. The reasons underpinning
   this decision include: i) the need to learn more about how best to work with communities and local resource
   users, and what type of alternative livelihood options exist before trying to fully institutionalize any one
   mechanism; ii) the urgent need to get biodiversity conservation activities on a sustainable footing (if advances
   over the past 13 years are not to be lost) combined with a need to avoid overwhelming the limited national
   absorptive capacity; and, perhaps most importantly, iii) that sustainable use of natural resources falls within a
   much broader rural development and natural resource management approach, which is better addressed in the
   context of the broader rural development financing mechanisms currently under discussion with the World
   Bank and other donors.


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
   The proposed Program is designed based on the lessons learned during the past 13 years. The key lesson is
   that existing achievements are the result of sustained efforts over an extended period, that have slowly
   developed in-country capacity and have stimulated support from communities. Rather than focus exclusively
   on protecting biodiversity in protected areas, IUCN and other development partners prioritized a slow but
   fruitful dialogue with the communities neighboring the protected areas. Through tangible activities in the field,
   such as the Environment House in Bubaque, they succeeded in creating a widely accepted network of protected
   areas in a part of the country known to be highly refractory to central authority. They have also nurtured a
   slew of national NGOs that have now become major stakeholders in biodiversity management efforts.

   Another lesson learned is the need to address institutional issues, to ensure long-term sustainability and a more
   strategic approach. Existing initiatives have lacked co-ordination, leaving gaps and sometimes creating
   duplications. Because Government was often only peripherally involved, biodiversity management does not
   feature as much as it should in national development planning, including on-going poverty reduction efforts.
   In the absence of a focal point such as IBAP to promote and defend biodiversity management and protected
   areas, commercial interests such as industrial fisheries and offshore petroleum could come to dictate the future
   of Guinea Bissau's coastal zone and eventually cancel out current gains.

   More generally, the Program is also based on the broad-based experience gained by the Bank and others
   working in Guinea Bissau; on the coastal and biodiversity specific experience gained in implementation of the
   Bank, GEF and IUCN portfolios; and on sustainable conservation financing (specifically trust fund)
   experience gained through the international work of Conservation Finance, the GEF and others all provide
   important lessons for the design of the program. Amongst these lessons, several aspects have been identified
   as being particularly relevant to Guinea:.

   ·   Government commitment and ownership is extremely important if coastal and biodiversity policy
       decisions are to be taken and sustained over time. These concerns are otherwise likely to bear little or no
       weight in national or regional decision-making, leaving coastal and biodiversity management efforts
       extremely vulnerable to interruption or reversal. Ensuring government commitment and ownership is
       therefore a focus of the program, which aims to shift government from its current, relatively passive role,
       into an active leadership position. Recent legislative and institutional achievements such as the framework
       law for protected areas and the declaration of intent to create a protected areas authority confirm that a
       strong commitment is already in place. This has been further reinforced during extensive discussions held
       during preparation. The creation of institutional and regulatory structures and the establishment of a
       sustainable financing mechanism will constitute tools that help Government keep Guinea Bissau on an
       environmentally and socially sound development path. In addition, the program would support targeted
       awareness raising and capacity building activities.
   ·   The available human and institutional capacity is another critical determinant of how far and how fast
       national biodiversity and environmental programs can progress. Recognizing Guinea Bissau's extremely

                                                    11
                                                                                                          PID


    weak institutional capacity, and the limited pool of human resources available, program design will be
    based on a careful evaluation of capacity constraints. Care needs to be taken not to be excessively
    optimistic. Priorities will be established, activities focused, institutional arrangements designed and
    targets realistically set so as to avoid overwhelming existing capacity. In addition, the program design will
    take a proactive approach to meeting the capacity building needs through provision of on-the-job as well
    as targeted capacity building activities. It is nonetheless recognized that capacity building is a long-term
    process and that in the short to medium term national capacity will need to be supplemented by external
    assistance. Bearing in mind the trade off between long term and short-term technical assistance,
    particularly with regard to sustainability, the program design will attempt to keep long-term technical
    assistance commitments to critical areas only.
·   Ensuring financial sustainability, especially stable recurrent cost financing for protected areas and
    endangered/threatened species management and monitoring initiatives, is another important parameter if
    conservation efforts are to have a lasting impact. In light of Guinea Bissau's extreme budgetary
    constraints and the potential sources of economic growth, further reinforced by a review of GEF and
    others' sustainable financing experience, it is believed that establishment of a conservation trust fund
    presents the best option for securing this financial sustainability. Thus, particular emphasis during both
    preparation and implementation will be on catalyzing private sector and donor participation in the
    establishment of a biodiversity and protected areas conservation trust fund that is able to sustain
    conservation efforts over the long term. Design of this fund will take the lessons learned from GEF and
    non-GEF funds into account in developing the internal and external structures necessary to establish a
    viable institution.
·   GEF and other biodiversity program experience indicates that the identification of appropriate economic
    alternatives for communities and local resource users is a key factor in changing local resource
    management practices in favor of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use objectives. Community
    participation and an adequate understanding of local socioeconomic, ecological and cultural factors
    are important factors for the successful identification and adoption of any alternative livelihood activities.
    The program will include a targeted component, designed to identify and test ways in which the linkages
    between economic benefits, local social development and conservation can be strengthened. Recognizing
    that currently there is no clear model, a learning approach will be taken. IUCN's ongoing program
    provides a good starting point for both identifying participatory approaches and alternative livelihood
    options. This information will be supplemented through community consultations, stakeholder dialogue
    and beneficiary assessments.

Additional lessons to also be taken into account during program preparation and design include: i) ensuring on
going stakeholder consultation and participation so as to promote ownership and identify issues and concerns
early on; ii) facilitating dialogue and coordination amongst government and other key implementation partners
so as to promote synergies and reduce conflicts; iii) building flexibility into program design so it can readily be
adapted to respond to lessons learned during implementation and/or changing national circumstances; iv)
keeping the burden placed on national budget and counterpart contributions to a minimum; v) ensuring early
on that sufficient administrative and financial management capacity is in place (including familiarity with
WB/GEF procedures and guidelines); vi) taking a programmatic approach that coordinate donor support so as
to avoid overlaps and gaps; and vii) establishing a supportive institutional and legal framework, including
putting in place mechanisms that ensure coastal and biodiversity management issues are taken into account in
broader decision-making.

                                                      12
                                                                                                         PID


9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
     Issues    : The overarching objective of the program is to strengthen Guinea Bissau's management of
coastal biodiversity for both conservation and sustainable development ends, with an emphasis on local
communities. As such, the program seeks to maintain or improve environmental quality, particularly with
regard to ecosystem health and its related biodiversity of global significance. A detailed Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment (ESA) has been prepared. An Environmental and Social Management
Framework ESMF) has been prepared and conclusion integrated into the design of activities.



10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Peter Kristensen
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: +1 (202) 473-4789
      Fax: +1 (202) 614-1235

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

