Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17956-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$284 MILLION
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(TRABAJAR PROGRAM)
June 8, 1998
Human and Social Development Group
LCC7C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (Arg$)
Arg$1 = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                                Country Assistance Strategy
FONAVI                             National Housing Fund
FOPAR                              Fondo Participativo de Inversi6n
Social/Participatory Social Investment Fund
GDP                                Gross Domestic Product
ICB                                International Competitive Bidding
MTSS                               Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social/Ministry
Of Labor and Social Security
NCB                                National Competitive Bidding
NGO                                Non-governmental Organization
SOE                                Statement of Expenditure
TOR                                Terms of Reference
Vice President          S.J. Burki
Country Director        M. Alexander
Sector Director (Acting)   X. Coll
Task Manager            P. Jones



Argentina
Third Social Protection Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................3
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .............................3
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ..................................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..........................5
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................6
1. Project components ............................................................6
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported by the project ...............................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................6
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .......................................................6
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies.. 8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .......................................8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..............................................9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................9
E. Summary Project Analyses ..................................................................9
1. Economic ............................9
2. Financial .........................                                                                                    10
3. Technical .........................                                                                                    10
4. Institutional .........................                                                                                 10
5. Social .........................                                                                                       10
6. Environmental assessment .........................11 
7. Participatory approach .........................                                                                       12
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................                                                                                 12
1. Sustainability ...................                                                                                     12
2. Critical risks ...................                                                                                     13
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                                                                  13



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                                                    13
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................                                                     13
2. Other ........................ 13
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                                            13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                                          14
Annexes
Annex I. 'Project Design Summary .15
Annex 2. Project Description .16
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .18
Annex 4.   Project Monitoring Indicators ................................                                           19
Annex 5  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements.                                                                21
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................................  23
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ................................. 24
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .25
Annex 6.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule ....................................                             26
Annex 7.   Documents in Project File ....................................                                          27
Annex 8. Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio .28
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits ..............................                                           30
Annex 10. Country at a Glance ..............................                                                       32



Argentina
Third Social Protection Project
(TRABAJAR)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCC7C
Date: June 5, 1998                                  Task Manager: Polly Jones
Country Director: Myrna Alexander                   Sector Director (Acting): Xavier Coll
Project ID: 49269      Sector: Multi Sector         Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data              [Xj Loan        [] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 284
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     X  Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 5          []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed           [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government Funding (incl. National and sub-national        583                150              733
levels)
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                       284                  0              284
IDA
Private                                                     60                                  60
Total        927                 150            1,077
Borrower: Argentine Republic
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Labor and Social Security
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1999      2000       19         20      20      20    20
Annual    142        142
Cumulative    142        284
For Guarantees:                                [    Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:               []    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 2 years Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 1998 Expected closing date: June
30, 2000



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project would support the third phase of TRABAJAR, a social safety net program. Through the execution of small
infrastructure facilities, TRABAJAR contributes to improvements in the living standards of the communities where the
sub-projects are located and creates employment for poor workers. In view of the recent serious floods in several
provinces of Argentina the government also plans to use the TRABAJAR program to respond to that situation.
The project builds on the experience of the Social Protection I and II Projects: the Social Protection I Project safeguarded
critical social programs, including the first phase of TRABAJAR, during the 1995-96 tequila crisis, while the Social
Protection II Project financed the continuation of the TRABAJAR program during 1997-98. This series of projects shares
the objective of supporting improvements in the TRABAJAR program, particularly in the areas of targeting, the quality
of sub-projects, and evaluation - aspects which have wide applicability to other social programs in Argentina.
The key performance indicators include: the number of workers hired and the payments made to them; and the share of
projects which have been completed satisfactorily.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16505-AR    Date of latest CAS discussion: May 15, 1997
The project supports the CAS objective of enhancing social development, including poverty alleviation and strengthening
the social safety net. The most recent CAS for Argentina explicitly included a program of public works assistance during
1997-98 in order to help temper the effects of the economic recession which led to a peak unemployment rate of almost
19 percent in 1996. The increase in poverty in 1995-96 was closely related to the growth of unemployment in Argentina
caused largely by the tequila crisis. Unemployment has since fallen but data from May 1997 showed that about 40
percent of those in the poorest decile were unemployed, compared to an average unemployment rate for the population of
17 percent.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government strategy to reduce poverty is based on a resumption of growth and macroeconomic stability supported
by successful actions to liberalize the economy, privatize public enterprises, and maintain fiscal discipline. Given the
strong link between unemployment and poverty, attention also has focused on actions to promote more job creation,
including improvements to education, labor market reform and reductions in labor costs. However, improvement in these
areas will take place only gradually, particularly on the labor front. In the meantime, the Government has endeavored to
design effective social safety net programs to address the needs of the poor, and in particular to confront the immediate
problem of high unemployment.
The Government has a wide ranging program in place consistent with the Bank's overall approach to poverty reduction.
Investment in human capital is being addressed by a series of operations focused on the quality of secondary education,
scholarships for poor students, and targeted upgrading of school facilities irn disadvantaged areas with the support of the
Bank and IDB. More detail is provided below on poverty alleviation trends, labor market reforms and social
expenditures.
Poverty alleviation. Argentina's urban poverty declined between 1990 and 1994 together with the achievement of
economic stability and growth. This was a dramatic reversal of the poverty trend during the latter part of the 1980s.
However, economic stability and growth are necessary but not sufficient conditions to ensure continued and sustainable
poverty reduction. In particular, so far outcomes in the area of employment creation have been insufficient to absorb
higher participation in the labor market by women and youths, and some of the previous gains in poverty reduction were
reversed in 1995-96 during the economic recession. Development of an economic environment which would promote
higher levels of job creation is crucial for poverty alleviation in Argentina. While strong economic growth in 1997 (8



Page 4
percent) reduced both poverty and unemployment rates, the situation is still worse than in 1994. As of October 1997, the
unemployment rate had fallen to about 14 percent compared to 17 percent in May of 1997. Less than 1 percentage point
of that drop (one-third of the total fall in the number of unemployed) would be attributable to the impact of TRABAJAR
and other programs providing temporary employment, assuming that workers were unemployed prior to entering the
programs.
Labor Market. A recent Bank sector report, Estimating the Benefits of Labor Reform in Argentina (Report No. 15643-
AR, January 31, 1997) suggested that the following major reforms would encourage greater and more productive use of
labor: (1) removing the legally granted monopoly power over negotiations in the hands of the central union federations
and decentralizing collective bargaining to the firm level; (2) further reductions in payroll taxes; and (3) replacement of
mandated severance payments by a fully funded unemployment insurance system. With the aim of increasing the
capacity for job creation in the economy, the Argentine authorities have taken some steps to lower labor costs, which are
high by international standards. They have reduced payroll taxes, increased the flexibility of contracts, and modernized
employment regulations. However, so far the Government has not been able to make progress in the critical but
politically difficult area of decentralization of collective bargaining and reform of the severance payment regime. After an
unsuccessful attempt to do so via decrees, the Government submitted new labor legislation to the Congress in March
1998. As presently formulated, the legislation essentially leaves unchanged the existing labor market regulations in the
area of collective bargaining and severance payments. And most of the temporary contracts which have been pernitted in
recent years would no longer be legal. Currently about a third of the new jobs created are workers with temporary
contracts.
Social Expenditures. Another key feature of the Government's strategy is to strengthen social programs both in terms of
levels and population being reached. With macro-stability in place, consolidated public social expenditures increased
steadily during the first half of the decade and are expected to have fallen slightly in 1997 to about $52 billion or 16.5
percent of GDP. The estimated reduction in spending is explained largely by lower outlays on social security and
health/medical attention and obras sociales (health insurance for formal sector workers). The national government
finances about 60 percent of consolidated social spending. Social security outlays account for two-thirds ($19 billion),
and spending on health and education for an additional $6 billion. Health spending is mostly accounted for by medical
insurance for the elderly and the obras sociales, and in the case of education, by transfers to tertiary education. Of the
remaining $4 billion, the largest components are nearly $1 billion for FONAVI, resources passed to the provinces for
housing which is part of the tax co-participation agreement between the federal and provincial governments, and a similar
amount in the Fondo del Conurbano (funding for the province of Buenos Aires). About $2 billion is accounted for by
about 40 programs covering the major areas of labor (including programs to promote employment such as public works
and wage subsidies), compensatory education programs, services for the elderly, community services and nutrition.
About $400 million of that goes for unemployment insurance.
Given Argentina's federal structure which gives the provinces responsibility for basic social programs, including
education, health and housing, and the fact that a large share of national social spending is dominated by obligatory social
security payments, the national government has relatively little flexibility nor direct mechanisms for major changes and
reallocation of social spending in the short run. The main area for efficiency gains at the national level therefore appears
to lie in the relatively small amount of spending --$2 billion per year-for various targeted programs. The main goal on
that front is to reduce duplication and to improve program design, especially on targeting. Regarding the provinces, the
national government's strategy is to provide national standards and an overall policy and institutional framework,
encourage the application of sound criteria and use a combination of moral suasion, institutional support and
dissemination of best practices to improve spending at the provincial level. Several Bank and IDB financed operations, in
the area of health and education, as well as economic management, are directly helping the provinces. The Government
recognizes that there is a problem of fragmentation and overlapping of programs and that administrative costs in some
cases are probably excessive. Some actions to address these issues have been taken. A Social Cabinet has been
organized under the Chief of the Cabinet with the aim of improving coordination among social programs. Improvements
to data availability on social indicators and program beneficiaries are underway (some financed under the Social
Protection I Project). Evaluations of a few social programs at the national level have been completed and others are in
process (some financed under World Bank loans). These actions have resulted in the identification of vulnerable groups



Page 5
and improvements in targeting. In the past, many employmept programs in Argentina were characterized by high
administrative costs, poor targeting and fraud. In 1996, the Government introduced changes in the employment
programs to make them more efficient and transparent. The Bank has supported these efforts under the Social Protection
I and II Projects.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Social Protection III project is a continuation of earlier efforts to reduce poverty and improve the efficiency of social
spending. It is a complement to - but not a substitute for-efforts to stimulate higher employment creation which require
continued high growth, labor market reform and improvement to the quality and relevance of Argentina's education
system. The particular issues being addressed by the operation are as follows:
Improved Poverty Targeting
Building on the improvements realized in the first two phases of TRABAJAR, the project will continue to sharpen
targeting and mechanisms to monitor and evaluate the program's poverty alleviation impact. The targeting mechanism for
TRABAJAR will remain the low wage rate, which is expected to be attractive only to those who are poor and with few
prospects for employment. This is combined with prior resource allocation to the provinces according to the distribution
of poor unemployed persons and the use of sub-project ranking criteria which favor projects located in poor areas.
Experience thus far shows the self-targeting mechanism to be effective: evaluation of TRABAJAR indicates that on
average 40 percent of TRABAJAR resources have reached those in the bottom 5 percent of the income distribution, while
75 percent have benefited the bottom 20 percent. Additional technical assistance will be provided to some provinces
where there is still potential to improve geographical targeting. In addition, the poorest areas of the country would be
eligible to receive additional project financing for materials which should help address the obstacle of a lack of
counterpart funding.
Efficiency of Social Expenditures
The project will continue to support the efforts of the Government to improve the efficiency of social programs begun
under the Social Protection I Project. The Social Protection II Project supported several reforms in the design of the
TRABAJAR public employment program to increase its cost-effectiveness. These included a strengthening of sub-
project evaluation and supervision procedures. These efforts will continue to be supported under the proposed project and
have been strengthened in some areas based on the results of the ex-post evaluation of a sample of sub-projects of
TRABAJAR financed in 1997. The evaluation indicated that although the improvements in evaluation and supervision
procedures had shown positive results, additional steps should be taken in order to promote higher sub-project benefits.
These included: more attention to the relevance of the sub-project to the needs of the community, stricter review of the
unit costs of the investments, and closer supervision to ensure satisfactory completion. This proposed project will
support several improvements in the procedures of TRABAJAR in order to address these weaknesses. These include
ensuring that more projects are visited during the evaluation process, providing more assistance to executing agencies
during project implementation, following more closely the results of the project supervision, and organizing better the
sub-project cycle.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 1):
Component                 Category   Indicative   % of    Bank-      % of
Costs    Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)            ($M    finan cing
TRABAJAR Sub-projects                               1,050     97.5      272        96
Project Administration                               25        2.3      10          3
Monitoring and Evaluation of Employment               2         .2       2          1
Program
Total    1,077     100      284        100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
The project would continue to support improvements in the design and implementation of the TRABAJAR public works
program in Argentina with a view to maximizing the benefits for poor workers in the country, as well as for poor
communities. The project would also support monitoring and evaluation of the TRABAJAR program as well as for a
program to promote private employment for unemployed workers, also managed by the Ministry of Labor and Social
Security. In addition, mainly through more proactive communication, efforts will be made to promote more
participation by women and NGOs (see Social Assessment).
3. Benefits and target population:
Through the investments financed under the TRABAJAR program, the project would provide temporary financial
assistance to poor workers, who are suffering from high levels of unemployment, and would improve social and
economic infrastructure in poor communities, thereby raising living standards. The number of people that would
participate in the TRABAJAR program as workers is estimated at about 300,000. It is expected that about 15,000 projects
would be financed.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
TRABAJAR is managed by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, through its staff at the national, regional and
provincial levels. The Ministry provides the sub-project menu, criteria and other instructions for sub-project preparation,
evaluation, approval, and supervision. It also assigns the resources for each province using a formula which weights most
heavily the distribution of the poor unemployed, but will also take into account implementation performance. Sub-
projects can be proposed by municipalities, provinces, national agencies or organizations of civil society. The main
source of sub-projects is expected to be municipalities.
All sub-projects will be evaluated by professionals (mainly engineers or architects) contracted by the provincial officers
of the MTSS according to a methodology which is specified in the operational manual and incorporates economic,
technical, financial, institutional, environmental, and social aspects. A data base on prices of materials as well as unit
costs has been built up from previously approved projects and will be used as a basis for comparison for subsequent
project proposals. For about 30 percent of sub-projects, evaluation would include a site visit. Sub-projects are labor-
intensive and relatively small. The average project size is less than $100,000 and most projects employ an average of 20
workers. The types of sub-projects eligible for financing include rehabilitation, expansion, and new construction
covering: potable water, sewerage, latrines, housing, roads, urban works, irrigation, schools, health centers, and other
community social infrastructure.
The sub-projects which receive a positive evaluation will be considered at monthly meetings by committees constituted at
the regional level, which include Provincial Managers of Employment and Training (MTSS employees), the Regional
Manager of MTSS, a representative from the national office of the MTSS, and members of civil society as observers
(currently mostly provincial, business and union representatives). Sub-projects will be ranked by a point system



Page 7
according to several criteria, the most important of which is the poverty level of the area in which the sub-project is
located. Sub-projects will be approved up to the limit set by available funds. Payments to workers will be made by
checks through the National Social Security Administration. Sub-projects will be supervised at least two times during
implementation.
Up until now, TRABAJAR has financed only the costs for unskilled labor. Under the proposed project, on a pilot basis,
TRABAJAR would finance also the costs of materials for selected projects in poor areas in order to improve the targeting
to poor areas. These projects would have to satisfy the following criteria: (1) located in one of the 300 municipalities in
which the share of the population with unsatisfied basic needs (NBI) is over 40 percent; (2) fall into the category of either
potable water or social infrastructure (including education, health and sanitary facilities for those and other community
infrastructure); and (3) cost no more than $35,000. The maximum that would be financed in materials would be $20,000
for a project. Projects would follow standard designs. An agreement signed between the Ministry and the municipality
would specify the procurement procedures to be followed for material purchases and documentation would be retained at
the municipality for review during sub-project supervision. Since the goods to be purchased would be standard, common
construction materials, during evaluation they would also be compared against the unit cost data base. Reimbursements
would be made in phases: 40 percent to be paid 10 days after project construction has begun, and 30 % in each of the
following two months thereafter in an account the municipality has in the Banco de la Nacion. It is estimated that
materials could be financed for up to 1,500 projects, about 10% of the total number of projects expected to be financed
under the proposed loan.
Financial Management. A financial management review was carried out (see Annex 7). The review concluded that the
management of the project was acceptable and met the requirements of the local authorities and the World Bank in the
areas of accounting systems and procedures, planning and budgeting, and internal controls. Nevertheless, the existence
of several different data bases of information relating to accounting, payments to beneficiaries, activities with UNDP and
monitoring of the sub-project cycle was a problem. Staff had to spend time ensuring consistency of information which
sometimes resulted in delays in recording information. In addition, since information was dispersed, standard financial
reports could not be generated automatically. An integrated data base would be preferable for financial management.
The review also suggested changes in the organization of the presentation of accounts. The project unit is in agreement
with these recommendations. The latter suggestion can be implemented easily and will be carried out before project
effectiveness. The former will take some time and depends as well on other units in the Ministry of Labor. Progress in
making these improvements will be monitored during project supervision.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives considered and rejected included different approaches to poverty alleviation and employment
creation, targeting, and the relative roles of the private and public sectors. The project takes into consideration the
experience built up through the past Social Protection operations and complementarity from other government and on-
going Bank and IDB-financed projects.
Poverty alleviation. One alternative project design would have been supporting another type of safety net - for example,
nutritional assistance to children. One reason for rejecting this alternative is that the Bank is supporting priority social
programs in other loans - Maternal and Child Health I and II and the Social Protection I Project. The focus on
employment creation is justified because most of the increase in unemployment has been felt by the lower income groups
in Argentina. The link between poverty and unemployment is strong.
Employment creation. Alternatives such as further reduction of payroll taxes are dependent upon the maintenance of
strong fiscal performance and tax reform. While the Government has lowered payroll taxes, there are limits on what can
be done while maintaining fiscal discipline. The Bank has supported labor reform through technical assistance and
analytical work, but these reforms have proven difficult to implement in the current electoral cycle.
Targeting. During preparation of the Social Protection II Project, other targeting mechanisms were proposed -including
a requirement that beneficiaries be the head of household. In order to ensure that the costs of participation to the poor be



Page 8
as low as possible and recognizing the complexity of houselodil labor arrangements, it was agreed to minimize the
requirements for participation and to focus instead on the self-targeting mechanism of the low wage rate. This
mechanism seems to be working well, as demonstrated by the results of the evaluation of TRABAJAR.
Public/Private Mix. An alternative would have been a social fund managed outside of traditional government channels
and using private contractors. Experience under Social Protection II is that the MTSS-managed TRABAJAR program has
sufficient transparency, objective project selection and targeting criteria, and controls. Government management of the
program makes it easier to ensure that the wage rate offered will encourage self-targeting by the poor.
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing andplanned):
Sector issue                     Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Protecting/Improving Efficiency of   Social Protection I (Ln.        S        S
Social Safety Net                    3957-AR)
Social Protection II (Ln.       S        S
Municipal Reform and Infrastructure  Second Municipal               HS        HS
Development Project (Ln.
3860-AR)
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank
Job Training for Youth/Secondary     Programa de Apoyo a la
School Scholarships                  Productividad y
Empleabilidad de Jovenes
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The lessons learned and reflected in the project design relate mainly to public works schemes and the operational
procedures of social funds. The most important general conclusions which can be drawn from these experiences are as
follows. One, the level of the wage rate is critical in determining the distribution of benefits from the program, as well as
how well it is targeted toward the poor. Maintaining the wage at the level of the ruling market wage for unskilled labor is
the best way to improve the transfer of benefits to the poor. Two, public works schemes are most appropriate in
situations in which poverty is expected to be transient. They are not long-term solutions. Three, public works programs
can be designed to encourage the participation of women, lower transactions costs for the poor as well as the potential
cost of foregone income, and the involvement of non-governmental organizations and grass roots participation to prevent
abuse. Four, it is important that the program be designed to strengthen the secondary benefits from the assets created.
Effective monitoring and supervision of projects is important to ensure the quality of works.
The design of the TRABAJAR program incorporates these lessons. First, the wage rate is equivalent to the expected
wage rate for households in the bottom decile of income distribution in order to maximize the transfer of benefits to the
poor. Second, it is recognized that a combination of continued growth, lower payroll taxes, and labor market
liberalization will be required to increase the employment generation capacity of the economy in the medium-term. A
resumption of high growth in 1997 did reduce the unemployment rate. TRABAJAR is a safety net programs; it is not a
long-run solution to high unemployment in Argentina. Third, the design of the TRABAJAR program includes features
to promote the participation of women and lower the foregone income of the poor (for example, elimination of the
requirement that the participant has to be the head of household and promotion activities) and encourage the participation



Page 9
of organizations of civil-society and communities (for example, technical assistance for project preparation). Four, in
order to ensure adequate benefits from the assets created by the sub-projects, the TRABAJAR program has strengthened
supervision and monitoring.
The project also has taken into account the results of the evaluations done for the previous projects. These included the
ex-post evaluation of a sample of sub-projects and a survey of workers on the program. The ex-post evaluation of a
sample of sub-projects indicated that more attention needed to be paid to increasing the relevance of the sub-projects to
the needs of the community, to controlling unit costs of investments, to ensuring that projects were completed
satisfactorily and to the institutional analysis of the executing agency. In order to address these weaknesses, sub-project
evaluation and supervision methodologies and procedures have been modified (particularly for typologies which had
experienced more problems), additional staff will be contracted in these areas and more technical assistance provided to
sub-project sponsors.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower's commitment to the TRABAJAR program (at all levels of government) has been demonstrated during
1997 by steady funding of the sharp expansion of the program and by the substantial progress made in the
implementation of reforms in its design and execution over the past two years. The Government's contribution of
counterpart funds under the previous project was greater than had been initially programmed.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support adds value in several areas. The Bank's review of TRABAJAR identified modifications in the design of
the scheme to increase the efficiency of the program in making transfers to the poor. The experience of the Bank in the
targeting of social programs has been applied and monitored during 1997. The knowledge gained by the Bank in social
fund projects was used to improve the operating procedures of the program. Bank experience is helping in the evaluation
of TRABAJAR and wage subsidies to promote employment in the private sector.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 7)
1. Economic:
[X ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
The TRABAJAR program can be thought of as generating direct benefits (net income gain to poor workers) and indirect
benefits (mainly the value of assets to communities). The proportion of total public expenditure on TRABAJAR (by both
the MTSS and cofinancing by local government) which is accountable to the net income gain to poor workers is
determined by the following four variables: (a) the budget leverage, or the amount of private financing mobilized by the
project; (b) the labor intensity (or the share of the cost of unskilled labor in the total project cost); (c) the targeting
performance; and (d) the proportionate net wage gain to poor participants. From the information available it is estimated
that the cost of transferring $1 to poor workers through the TRABAJAR scheme is about $4-5 (about the same as in the
previous program since the basic parameters have not changed). These calculations suggest that the case for TRABAJAR
as an anti-poverty scheme rests heavily as well on establishing that the indirect benefits are of sufficient value to poor
people to outweigh the extra costs that are incurred with this type of program. Several features of TRABAJAR suggest
that the indirect benefits, particularly from the assets created, help tilt the balance in favor of TRABAJAR over alternative
transfer-based schemes. These features include: well-defined project selection criteria and approval procedures; co-
financing of non-labor project costs by local governments; and the existence of considerable administrative controls and
monitoring. These aspects of TRABAJAR have in fact been strengthened during the previous project and additional
efforts will be supported under this project.
An evaluation of the net benefits to workers in the TRABAJAR program is currently in preparation. Already the study
indicates that the targeting of TRABAJAR to poor workers has been effective. An ex-post evaluation of a sample of
projects financed under TRABAJAR during 1997 was also carried out. The preliminary findings are that most projects
have satisfactory returns, but that there was room for improvements in several areas. One, the relevance of the sub-
project to the needs of the community needed to be increased. In response, more technical assistance will be provided to
project sponsors and the evaluation methodology has been modified in order to increase the focus on this important



Page 10
aspect, including stricter enforcement of the requirement that 30 percent of projects should be visited before approval.
The ex-post evaluation also indicated problems because some projects were not completed satisfactorily. As a result,
supervision of projects is being tightened and extra staff contracted to resolve problems with implementing agencies.
There was also evidence of high unit costs for some investments. In response, the use of unit cost comparisons during
project evaluation will be enforced and the use of the data base on unit costs be made more accessible to evaluators.
Finally, the institutional analysis of the executing agency will be strengthened as this has proved critical to the outcome of
sub-projects.
2. Financial:
The project's financial impact is on the participating community, typically the municipality or community group which
would take on responsibility for the counterpart requirements and the eventual operation and maintenance of the
investment.
The evaluation methodology for TRABAJAR sub-projects includes an analysis of the budget proposed for all projects. In
addition, for some types of projects, the standards relating to cost recovery and tariffs used in the sector are confirmed in
the sub-project proposals. During the ex-post evaluation of a sample of projects, the implementation of these practices
was confirmed.
The main fiscal impact is the operations and maintenance expenditures for TRABAJAR sub-projects. These are small
projects (below $100,000) and generally are sponsored by municipalities who finance on average 70 percent of the total
cost. Projects proposed for the second TRABAJAR program exceeded the resources available. Since the projects are
spread throughout the country, the operations and maintenance obligations are unlikely to be significant for any one
municipality. The ability of the sponsoring organization to ensure the subsequent operations and maintenance of the sub-
project is also considered during project evaluation. The ex-post evaluation of a sample of sub-projects financed under
the second phase of TRABAJAR indicated that the issues relating to operations and maintenance were being handled
adequately. Under the proposed project, an ex-post evaluation of projects which have been finished for a longer period of
time would be visited in order to review the operations and maintenance arrangements.
3. Technical:
All TRABAJAR sub-projects will be evaluated before being submitted for approval. The evaluation methodology (See
Annex 2) includes technical aspects, focusing in particular on appropriate dimensioning of the project, comparison with a
data base on unit costs, and a check for compliance with existing national and local standards whenever available. Some
technical weaknesses were identified in some water and sewerage projects during the ex-post evaluation of a sample of
TRABAJAR projects financed under the previous project. As a result, the evaluation methodology and the requirements
that these projects have to meet have been strengthened.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The TRABAJAR program is directed by a small team within the Directorate of Employment and
Training Policies in the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Day-to-day management is handled by the provincial
Offices of Employment and Training. The staff of MTSS at both levels has been supplemented during the previous
project by consultants which mainly are responsible for project evaluation and some project supervision. This
arrangement is expected to continue during implementation of the Social Protection III Project. The majority of sub-
projects are executed by municipalities. Their performance under the previous project was satisfactory. The
performance target of completing 70 percent of sub-projects on time was met.
b. Project management: The TRABAJAR program will be directed by a small unit within the directorate of Employment
and Training Policies in the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. The record of project management during the
Second Social Protection Project was excellent



Page 1t
S. Social:
A social assessment was carried out during project preparation. The assessment included consultations with key
stakeholders in TRABAJAR, particularly municipal officials and NGOs. Overall, the participation of NGOs as sponsors
of sub-projects in the TRABAJAR program increased slightly during the sharp expansion financed by the previous
project and their 16 percent share compares favorably with the experience of social funds in Latin America. The
improvement reflected the increased promotion and technical assistance activities undertaken by the project
management and some important design changes (for example, removal of bias for high shares of project cofinancing
and access to outside institutions for evaluations of projects). However, there is substantial variation among provinces.
The main necessity that NGOs identified in the social assessment was more information about the program and more
technical assistance in the preparation of sub-project proposals. Under the proposed project, the project coordination unit
is expanding technical assistance at both the central and at the provincial level and will explore ways to improve the flow
of information about the requirements and results of the program to various actors, including organizations of civil
society.
In the case of poor municipalities, the main barrier to entry in TRABAJAR has been the lack of ability to prepare and
execute sub-projects; and a lack of resources to finance materials. The expansion of technical assistance proposed
responds to the first set of concerns and the pilot financing line for materials responds to the second. Another theme
raised by the social assessment were the problems during the previous project with delays in payments to beneficiaries.
Although these delays accounted for a small percentage of total payments (less than 5 percent), they were serious in
some places and caused hardship for some workers. In response, in recent months the Ministry has completed an
important effort to improve the system of registration and payments (particularly for replacements of workers which
caused problems). These efforts already have shown positive results. Payment delays are now expected to be both much
lower in number and able to be resolved easier at the level of the provincial offices of employment.
Gender. Labor force participation by females in Argentina has risen in recent years, and stands now at around 30 percent.
The participation rate for males is 53 percent. Women account for slightly less than half of the total unemployed. About
a fifth of poor households are headed by women. Unemployed men are more likely to be poor than are unemployed
women. About 55 percent of unemployed men are in households in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution (as
measured by household income per capita) while the share for unemployed women is 40 percent. Contrary to
expectations, the share of women participating in the expanded TRABAJAR program fell slightly relative to the 1996
program, from 15 to 13 percent. The variation among provinces is substantial with the share of female workers ranging
from 3 to 20 percent. Additional promotional activities will be undertaken in provinces with low shares of participation by
women to ensure that gender stereotypes do not preclude women from participating in projects.
Targeting. As was the case in the previous project, the main instrument used for targeting poor beneficiaries is self-
targeting through the low wage rate. Preliminary data from the survey of TRABAJAR beneficiaries indicates that three-
quarters of the workers were from households in the bottom two deciles of the household income distribution and about
40 percent of the workers were from households in the bottom 5 percent of the income distribution. Budget resources are
distributed initially to the provinces according to the estimated distribution of poor unemployed persons. During
supervision of the Social Protection II Project an analysis was carried out on the geographical targeting of the expanded
TRABAJAR program during the first 5 months of execution and the results indicated, overall, a significant improvement
(see "Reaching Poor Areas in a Federal System" by Martin Ravallion, March 1998). Efforts will continue under the
proposed project to improve targeting, particularly in some provinces which have relatively worse performance. These
include technical assistance and access to financing for materials in poor municipalities.
6. Environmental assessment:      Environrnental Category     []A   [X] B  []C
The project has been assigned a B category. The TRABAJAR subprojects to be financed under the Loan under expected
to remain small (under $100,000) and most of the environmental impacts should be predictable and subsequently avoided
or mitigated with common practices. Checklists and other environmental tools have been incorporated into the evaluation
methodology. The description of the methodology together with forms, etc. is included in the Operational Manual.



Page 12
Environmental considerations are also incorporated into promotion and supervision activities. During supervision of the
Social Protection 11 Project, the Bank did not find any major negative environmental impacts, but did identify
improvements that could be made in the guidelines to enable the tools to be used better by the project staff and project
presenters. Significant improvements were made in the area of environmental analysis and several training activities were
carried out in the first half of 1998.
7. Participatory approach: Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The key stakeholders are poor workers, municipalities and non-governmental organizations. The TRABAJAR program
has been a demand-driven fund since its establishment in 1996. The fact that the share of organizations of civil society
sponsoring sub-projects has increased even as the program sharply expanded is evidence of the participatory approach of
the Government. During supervision of the Social Protection II Project and preparation for this project, visits have been
made to 8 provinces to discuss the program with municipal authorities, NGOs, and beneficiaries. Discussions with
municipalities, organizations of civil society and beneficiaries took place during the social assessment and influenced
design changes in the proposed project. In addition, other organizations of civil society (such as the Catholic church and
labor unions) participate in TRABAJAR as project sponsors, advisors and observers. Labor unions and provincial
authorities have an input in setting overall priorities among viable sub-projects.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The future scale and operation of the TRABAJAR program would depend on the level of unemployment and other
economic conditions. The Argentine government expects that the need for TRABAJAR would diminish over time as the
unemployment rate declines. Already, high economic growth in 1997 helped to reduce the unemployment rate from 17
percent in May to 14 percent in October 1977 and, as a result, the estimated size of the target population for TRABAJAR
has decreased slightly. Nevertheless, given its demonstrated success in targeting poor workers and in financing small
infrastructure projects, TRABAJAR (or similar programs) could reasonably be expected to remain a part of the social
safety net in Argentina, to be used flexibly for some population groups depending on economic and social conditions. The
current level of financing accounts for a small fraction of GDP and aggregate spending at the national and provincial
levels and can be considered affordable under a scenario of continued fiscal discipline and control.
Moreover, the sustainability of the sub-projects financed under TRABAJAR is expected to be high given the high share of
financing by local governments and the fact that many sub-projects involve remodeling, refurbishment, or expansion of
existing facilities. In addition, the strengthening of the evaluation methodology (including more attention to design
standards and operations and maintenance), promotion of the criteria of relevance of the project for the community, and
close supervision has contributed to sustainability of the sub-projects. In the area of cost recovery, the evaluation
methodology includes a stipulation that the local practices for particular types of sub-projects (for example, basic
sanitation, street paving, etc.) would be applied for any project financed by the TRABAJAR program. The ex-post
evaluation of a sample of sub-projects financed and completed under the previous project confirmed that the
arrangements for operations and maintenance as well as cost recovery were generally satisfactory. Another ex-post
evaluation of completed projects is planned under the proposed project to ensure that these arrangements are continued
over a longer period of time.



Page 13
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1J:
Risk                     Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Poor TRABAJAR outcomes on targeting to        Low       Self-targeting of workers, strengthening of sub-
poor workers and projects with low value to             project evaluation and supervision, close
poor communities                                        monitoring and evaluation.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Lack of government budgetary support for      Low       Sufficient budget allocation to be confirmed during
TRABAJAR                                                negotiations.
Overall Risk Rating   Low      I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
No special effectiveness conditions.
2. Other
Utilization of Project Funds
The Borrower would ensure that the wage rates applicable to the services of temporary and fixed term workers
for sub-projects shall not exceed Arg$200/mo. (Section 3.05)
The Borrower would forward to the Bank for its review the relevant documentation for all Sub-projects estimated
to cost more than $350,000 equivalent after the sub-projects have been approved by the Project Management Unit
(Section 3.06)
Management of Project
The Project will be carried out in accordance with an Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.06 of
the Loan Agreement), and will be managed by a Project Management Unit with functions and key staff with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [ x) Not applicable.
[3 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [x] Not applicable.



Page 14
[x I The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[ ]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[x]  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Local Cost Financing. The high share of local cost financing is a consequence of the main objective of the project-
through the financing of labor-intensive social and economic infrastructure investments, the living standards of poor
communities would be raised and employment created for poor workers. It is justified by the need to provide a safety
net for poor households who have been most adversely affected by unemployment in Argentina. The fact that the
resources for the program will be targeted to Argentina's poorest areas also justifies local cost financing. Given the
objective of the Government to expand the program substantially in order to have a significant impact on the poor,
and the stringent fiscal policy being implemented by the Government, it is our judgment that the financial
requirements of the program would exceed the limits of available local savings and expected foreign exchange
resources. The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
( J/1 0      1a
Task Manager: Polly Jones, LCSHD
Acting Secto  irector: Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Country Director: Myrna Alexander, LCC7C



Page 15
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Argentina: Social Protection III
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                     (Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance social           Poverty indicators        Government statistics     The critical assumptions are
development, including by   (headcount, etc.), net                           that a stronger social safety
strengthening the social  benefit to workers                                 net would alleviate poverty
safety net and reducing                                                     in the short-run, while
unemployment                                                                 economic growth and the
consolidation and deepening
of reforms, including in the
labor market, would provide
the basis for sustained
-_____________________                                                       poverty  reduction.
Project Development                                                          (Objective to Goal)
Objectives:
Support a social safety net   Poverty indicators   Official Government       A critical assumption is that
program which through    (headcount, etc.), net benefit statistics; results of  the increase in poverty in
financing for small      to workers                evaluation study of       1995-96 was strongly
infrastructure projects,                           participants of TRABAJAR   related to unemployment.
provides employment to
poor workers and improves
the living standards in poor
communities.
Outputs:
Small infrastructure projects No. of workers hired for  Monitoring system of  A critical assumption is that
and temporary jobs for poor  projects; payments made to  TRABAJAR program;   design of the program
workers                  beneficiaries; extent to  results of supervision of  results in self-targeting to
which projects are targeted   projects; ex-post evaluation  poor workers and
to poor areas; quality of  of a sample of projects  investments in projects
investments financed,                              which have value to poor
including timely completion                        communities
of projects
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs:                                            (Components to Outputs)
components:
Financing for Sub-projects  TRABAJAR Program       Monitoring system of     Timely release of budget for
under the TRABAJAR       Budget                    TRABAJAR program          TRABAJAR program.
program
Sufficient demand for
Project Management,                                                          projects to be financed by
Supervision and Evaluation                                                   TRABAJAR



Page 16
Annex 2
Third Social Protection Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - TRABAJAR Program - USS 1050 million (total cost of component)
Sub-projects will be presented by municipal and provincial governments, private groups, and national organizations. The
menu of projects which are eligible for financing by the TRABAJAR III program includes minor construction, repair,
expansion, or remodeling for schools, health facilities, basic sanitation facilities, small roads and bridges, culverts and
canals, community kitchens and centers, tourist centers, low-cost housing, and community services. More detail
(including restrictions and special requirements in some cases) for each category of project are contained in the
Operational Manual.
Project Component 2 - US$ 25 million (total cost of component)
Project management and supervision costs.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2 million
Evaluation and monitoring of the TRABAJAR program, as well as for other employment programs operated by the
MTSS. Evaluation of the TRABAJAR program will include ex-post evaluations of sub-project quality. Some of these
evaluations will focus on special topics, such as experience with sub-project operations and maintenance, specific project
categories, and problems of executing agencies. Draft terms of reference for these studies have been agreed with the
Government and are in the Project file (Annex 7).
Component 1 (TRABAJAR) Project Cycle
l. Project Promotion. Most promotion activities would take place at the provincial level, with the assistance of the
central project coordination unit. These would include activities for NGOs and community groups designed to provide
technical assistance in the presentation of sub-projects for financing under the program. These activities will be expanded
under the proposed project.
2. Project Presentation. The MTSS has established the guidelines for presentation of sub-projects. The menu of
activities eligible for financing includes the following: construction, extension, remodeling and rehabilitation, schools,
basic sanitation systems, small roads, bridges, culverts, weirs, and canals, health facilities, community kitchens and other
centers, low-cost housing and community services. More details regarding eligibility for each category are spelled out in
the operational manual and the guide for presentation of sub-projects. Sub-projects must be. completed within 3-6
months. The application form includes information on executing agencies, total cost, benefits expected (including a
description of the community, role of the community in project selection, and implementation and supervision), and
location of the sub-project. Completed applications are presented to the provincial Managers of Employment and
Training Programs where they are screened for completeness of information and compliance with the eligibility criteria.
3. Project Evaluation. Each sub-project will be evaluated by trained professionals, who will generally be contracted at
the provincial level. For about 30 percent of the sub-projects this will include a site visit. The methodology to be used
for evaluation covers economic, technical financial, institutional, environmental, and social aspects of the sub-project and
incorporates checks on costs using a data base of unit cost comparisons for similar types of sub-projects. It was



Page 17
developed during project preparation of the previous project, drawing from the experience with social funds. Based on
experience under the previous project and the results of the ex-post evaluation of a sample of sub-projects the evaluation
methodology and formats for presentation of projects have been modified in several areas. Details of the revised
methodology are contained in the operational manual.
4. Project Approval. Once a sub-project is judged to be viable on economic, technical and other grounds, it is ranked
according to specific criteria. These criteria are explained in both the operational manual and the guide for presentation
of projects. Sub-projects are given points depending on the extent of poverty in the area where the sub-project is located
(highest weight), the coverage of previous sub-projects, the project category, previous performance of the implementing
agency under TRABAJAR, the priority assigned by the province and labor conditions. Sub-projects are submitted every
month to one of five regional committees. The members of the committees are the Provincial Managers of Employment
and Training, the Regional Director of the MTSS, a representative of the national office of the MTSS, as well as in some
cases non-voting representatives of civil society. The committees will review projects and approve projects based on
their rankings up to the limit of the resources assigned to each province. Once a sub-project is approved by the
committee, a resolution is issued by the MTSS listing the names of the project and the amounts of financing from the
TRABAJAR program for each.
5. Project Implementation and Financing and Payment of Workers. Once a sub-project is approved, the executing
agency has to present to the Provincial Manager of Employment and Training Programs, the list of workers on the project.
Executing agencies can choose such workers if they wish from lists of unemployed workers wherever they are available
from MTSS offices. Inclusion on such a list is not a prerequisite for working on a sub-project. The list of workers is
verified and checked in the provincial office and the information passed on to the national office of ANSeS where
additional verification is done. Checks are issued to each worker once a month for the previous month's work.
Depending on the location of the sub-project, workers receive their checks at a bank or at the post office. Workers sign
for their checks and this information is retumed to the national office within 30 days of the initial receipt of the checks for
the workers.
6. Under the proposed project, on a pilot basis, TRABAJAR would finance also the costs of materials for selected
projects in poor areas in order to further improve targeting. These projects would have to satisfy the following criteria:
(1) located in one of the 300 municipalities in which the share of the population with unsatisfied basic needs (NBI) is over
40 percent; (2) fall into the category of either potable water or social infrastructure (including education, health and
sanitary facilities for those and other community infrastructure); and (3) cost no more than $35,000. The maximum
amount that would be financed in materials would be $20,000 per project. Projects would follow standard designs. The
agreement that would be signed between the Ministry and the municipality would specify the procurement procedures to
be followed for material purchases (generally local shopping) and documentation would be retained at the municipality
for review during sub-project supervision. Since the goods to be purchased would be standard, common construction
materials, during evaluation they would also be compared against the unit cost data base. Reimbursements would be
made in phases: 40 percent, 10 days after project construction has begun, and 30 percent in each of the following two
months thereafter, in an account the municipality has in the Banco de la Nacion. It is estimated that materials could be
financed for up to 1,500 projects, about 10% of the total number of projects expected to be financed under the proposed
loan.
7. Project Supervision. Each sub-project would be supervised by trained professionals, generally contracted at the
provincial level. Generally each project would be supervised at least two times during execution, once at the beginning
of implementation before the first payment to workers is authorized and once when the project is near to complete, before
the final payment to workers is authorized. For some projects there would also be visited mid-way in project execution.
Technical assistance would also be provided to those executing projects, focusing in particular on cases where
supervision identified problems.



Page 18
Annex 3
Third Social Protection Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                Local             Foreign         Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
TRABAJAR Sub-projects                                               900              150           1,050
Project Administration                                               25                0              25
Project Monitoring and Evaluation                                     2                0               2
Total                                                              927               150           1,077
Total Baseline Costl!                                               927               150          1,077
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Cost                                                  927              150           1,077
'Since most of the project cost is accounted for by financing for sub-projects and physical targets are not the principal objective, no
contingencies have been provided for sub-projects. Any increase in the average subproject cost would be reflected in a smaller
number of subprojects being implemented. Given the projected 18-month execution period for the project, no contingencies have
been calculated for project administration either.



Page 19
Annex 4
Monitoring Indicators
I. Project Cycle
(1) No. of Projects (overall and by province and by project category):
(1) presented
(2) evaluated
(3) determined to be viable
(4) approved
(5) never started
(6) started on time
(7) projects with delayed starts (1 mo., 2 mo. etc.)
(8) paralyzed
(9) finalized
(10) started, but never completed
*(2) Percentage of sub-projects completed satisfactorily (can be used)
II. Direct beneficiaries (overall and by province)
*(1) No. of workers entering the program
(2) No. of beneficiaries (total) employed in sub-projects
(3) No. of beneficiaries/project (average and range by province)
(4) Key characteristics of beneficiaries: sex, age, previous economic activity,
education level, family structure
(5) Wages paid/mo. (av. by province and overall)
III. Budget/Process Indicators
(1) Amount executed/amount assigned/by province
(2) No. of sub-projects appraised/evaluator/mo (overall and by province)
(3) Projects visited for evaluation/total projects/mo (overall and by province)
(4) No. of projects supervised/supervisor/mo
(5) Supervision visits/project/mo (overall and by province)
(6) Av. no. of supervision visits/project during its execution (overall and by
province)
IV. Coverage Indicators
Jobs provided/estimated target population/by province/for country



Page 20
V. Beneficiary Payments
(1) Payments paid by ANSeS/payments authorized by MTSS
*(2) Accumulated Payments to Beneficiaries
(3) Payments confirmed by beneficiaries/Payments paid by ANSeS
(4) Beneficiaries experiencing payment delays/total beneficiaries
VI. Project outputs and costs (overall and by province)
(1) Number of projects by type
(2) Share of projects which finance new construction (by type of project)
(3) Average cost(and range)/project category
(4) Average share of labor cost (and range)/by project category
VII. Extent of Targeting to Poor Areas/Participation
(1) Correlation of Projects (number and total expenditures) with incidence of
poverty, number of unemployed poor, etc./within country and within provinces
(2) % of projects sponsored by NGOs, municipalities, etc. (overall and by province)
(3) % of projects with participation of NGOs, etc. (overall and by province)
* Indicates monitoring indicators which will be included in the supplemental letter of the loan
agreement and for which benchmarks have been set.



Page 21
Annex 5
Third Social Protection Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A large proportion of the loan would not involve procurement as the Bank would reimburse the Government
for remuneration paid to qualified beneficiaries of the TRABAJAR employment program. This procedure is
currently being used for financing provided to the Government under the on-going Social Protection (3957-
AR) and Second Social Protection Loans (4195-AR).
Procurement for equipment, office supplies and materials for selected sub-projects would be handled
using either NCB or shopping depending on the value of the contract. Goods would be procured in accordance
with the provisions of the Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as
revised in January and August 1996 and September 1977). In the case of materials for sub-projects,
agreements signed between the Ministry of Labor and Social Security with the municipality sponsoring the
project would specify the procurement procedure to be followed. The procedures also are set out in the
operational manual. The cost of each selected sub-project would not exceed $35,000 with a maximum of
$20,000 of materials financed for each project. The projects would follow standard, basic designs and be
limited to a few specific types (potable water, social infrastructure, sanitary infrastructure). The materials are
expected to be mainly off-the-shelf, standard construction items and the value of the contract for any one item
would usually be relatively small. Wherever possible, municipalities would use local shopping and
documentation would be maintained at the municipality for review during supervision. In some rural, isolated
areas, it may not be practical or feasible to obtain quotations from more than one supplier. In those cases,
direct contracting for purchases of materials would be permitted for individual contracts below $5,000 up to an
aggregate amount of $10 million. The costs of the common construction materials would be compared against
the unit cost data base during sub-project evaluation. Municipalities would be reimbursed for the cost of
materials in phases and upon the receipt of information regarding project execution.
Consulting services related to project management would be contracted following the Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank borrowers (February 1997). Most of the contracts are expected to be for
individuals and below $100,000. For these contracts, it is expected that consultants would be selected
according to their qualifications. Single-source selection would be used only in exceptional cases, and with
one exception, only for contracts below $100,000. The project is expected to use the services of the UNDP to
provide administrative support on tasks related to project management. The cost of this contract is slightly
below $200,000. The choice of UNDP by the Government is based on their prior experience with similar
projects.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)



Page 22
Disbursement
The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed over a period of 18 months. The project
completion date would be December 31, 1999 and the Loan closing date is June 30, 2000. Retroactive
financing of up to 10 percent of the loan or US$28 million would be available to cover eligible expenditures
incurred after May 1, 1998, but no more than 12 months prior to loan signing.
Required Documentation. Withdrawal applications for consultant services with a contract value of $100,000
or more, and $50,000 or more for the employment of firms and individual consultants, respectively, would be
supported by full documentation. Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) against eligible expenditures not undertaken by contract which would cover payments of remuneration
of temporary workers in the TRABAJAR program and the materials financed for selected projects. Supporting
documentation for these expenditures would be maintained by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and
would be available for periodic review by the Bank. The preparation of the withdrawal applications and SOEs
and the organization of the supporting documentation is the responsibility of a team in the MTSS led by an
administrative officer.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Special Account. A special account of US$30 million would be opened for this project in the Banco de la
Nacion. The MTSS would submit replenishment applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis, or
whenever 20 percent of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The replenishment
applications will be supported by the necessary documentation: a bank statement of the Special Account and a
reconciliation bank statement of the Special Account against the Bank's records. Replenishment of the Special
Account would follow Bank procedures. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval
within six months of the end of the fiscal year.



Page 23
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Works
720          720
2. Goods
Computer and Office                         0.5         0.5                       1.0
Equipment and Supplies                     (0.5)       (0.5)                     (1.0)
Materials for Selected                                 30                        30
TRABAJAR Sub-projects                                 (30)                      (30)
3. Services
Consultancy Services                                   11                       11
(including per diems, and                             (11)                      (11)
media services)
Financial Services (service                                        10.0          10.0
charge to process payments to
workers)
5.0          5.0
Project Administration
4. Remuneration for                                   300                      300
Temporary/Fixed Term Staff                           (242)                     (242)
(TRABAJAR Program)
Total                                    0.5       341.5       735          1077
(0.5)    (283.5)                   (284)
-4ote: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items.



Page 24
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)               Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                                 US $ millions
1. Works                       N/A                    NBF                     None
2. Goods
100 to 350               NCB               First two contracts
100 to 5              Shopping                  None
< 5,000           Direct contracting            None
3. Services
Firms                       >100,000             Bank Guidelines              All
<100,000            Bank Guidelines       Review of TORs only
Individuals                   >50,000            Bank Guidelines               All
<50,000            Bank Guidelines      Review of TORs only
4. Remuneration for
Temporary/Fixed Term
Staff (TRABAJAR)2
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        1.0 mill.
Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultant contracts below thresholds in cases of single-source selection of
firms, assignments of a critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising the original value above the threshold.
2 The Bank will review all subproject proposals estimated to cost over $350,000.



Page 25
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
1. Services:
(a) Remuneration for Temporary/Fixed Term             242                80%
Staff (TRABAJAR)
(b) Consulting Services                                11               100 %
2. Goods
Equipment and Supplies                                  I        100 % of foreign
and 50 % of local
expenditures
Materials for selected TRABAJAR sub-projects           30                80%
Total           284



Page 26
Annex 6
Third Social Protection Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$116,000                $94,500
(as of 6/2/98)
B. Project Schedule                                    Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          7 months
First Bank mission (identification)                 11/05/1998              11/05/1998
Appraisal mission departure                         4/1311998               4/25/1998
Negotiations                                        5/11/1998                5/8/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       9/30/1998               9/30/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Labor and Social Security
Preparation assistance: N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                           Specialty
Polly Jones                            Project Management and Design
Martin Ravallion                  Economic Analysis, Poverty and Evaluation Design
Maria Claudia Vasquez                 Engineer and Sub-Projects Economic Analysis
Christian Hurtado                       Engineer and Sub-project Supervision
Armando Godinez                       Sub-project Supervision and Social Aspects
Sandra Cesilini                      Social Assessment and NGO participation
Karla McEvoy                      Environmental Issues and Project Administration
Ruth Izquierdo                                  Project Assistant
Martin Rama, Kalanidhi Subbarao,            Labor Economists, Poverty, Social Protection
Zafiris Tzannatos (Peer Reviewers)



Page 27
Annex 7
Argentina Third Social Protection Project
Documents in the Project File*
A.    Project Implementation File
Revised Operational Manual
Application and Guide for Presentation of Projects
Supervision Methodology
Technical Assistance Plan
B.    Bank Staff Assessments
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis (Ravallion BTO)
Evaluation of Project Quality TRABAJAR (1998)
Social Assessment
Financial Management Review
C.    TOR for Project Evaluation Studies
*Including electronic files



Page 28
CAS Annex B8
Annex 8
Argentina
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1960/95/97            Acindar                36.25   16.43   10.00   63.33   11.25   16.43   10.00   13.33
1977/84/86/88/94/96   Alpargatas             24.23    6.05    6.37   89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37   48.79
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96   Minetti             10.00    0.00   10.00   30.00   10.00    0.00   10.00   30.00
1986/89/91/97         Banco Roberts-AL       10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987                  BGN-TBR                  .11    0.00    0.00    0.00     .11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89               BGN-Bolland              .13    0.00    0.00    0.00      .13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89/90/96/97      Terminal 6             19.19    0.00    0.00   18.42   13.54    0.00    0.00   11.07
1987/92               BRLP                    8.51    0.00    0.00     .58      .97    0.00    0.00     .58
1988/93               Bunge y Born            3.19    0.00    0.00   24.06    3.19    0.00    0.00   24.06
1989                  BGN-Algodonera           .16    0.00    0.00    0.00     .16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Ferrum               .50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-FRIGOTOBA            .08    0.00    0.00    0.00     .08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Interpack            .15    0.00    0.00    0.00     .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Parafma              .38    0.00    0.00    0.00     .38    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Willmor              .41    0.00    0.00    0.00     .41    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ROB-COMESI               .09.   0.00    0.00    0.00     .09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ROB-INTA                 .09    0.00    0.00    0.00     .09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/96               Banco Frances           4.82    0.00    0.00     .13    4.82    0.00    0.00      .13
1990                  CIP                     0.00     .08    0.00    0.00    0.00     .08    0.00    0.00
1990/94               Petroken               19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65   19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65
1991                  BCA                     1.26    0.00    0.00    1.60    1.26    0.00    0.00    1.60
1991                  ROB-Longvie              .11    0.00    0.00    0.00     .11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  FEPSA                   6.95    0.00    0.00    5.87    6.95    0.00    0.00    5.87
1992                  Oleaginosa Oeste        5.35    0.00    5.00    7.15    5.35    0.00    5.00    7.15
1992                  Rioplatense             5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67
1992                  San Jorge               0.00   27.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93/96            Malteria Pampa         11.49    0.00    1.00    9.20   11.49    0.00    1.00    9.20
1992/95               Bridas                 36.29    0.00    0.00   60.30   36.29    0.00    0.00   60.30
1993                  Argentina Equity        0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Nuevo Central           5.63    3.00    0.00    8.75    5.63    3.00    0.00    8.75
1993                  Yacylec                 7.70    5.04    0.00   23.25    7.70    5.04    0.00   23.25
1993/94               Molinos                 0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00
1994                  Aceitera General       13.75   10.00    0.00    0.00   13.75   10.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  BGN                    12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1994                  LBAR                    0.00    1.17    0.00    0.00    0.00     .64    0.00    0.00
1994                  LBAV                    0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00
1994                  Quilmes                11.07    0.00    0.00    8.75   11.07    0.00    0.00    8.75
1994/95               EDENOR                 16.25    0.00   15.00   66.50   16.25    0.00   15.00   66.50
1994/95/96            Aguas                  70.22    7.00    0.00  219.11   70.22    7.00    0.00  219.11
1994/95/97            La Maxima               0.00   14.39    4.00    0.00    0.00   12.12    3.96    0.00
1995                  Banco Roberts           0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
1995                  CEPA                   11.00    0.00    0.00    2.40   11.00    0.00    0.00    2.40
1995                  Mastellone              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Nahuelsat              27.50    5.00    0.00    0.00   27.50    5.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  SanCor                 17.50    0.00   20.00   21.00   17.50    0.00   20.00   21.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 06/05/98



Page 29
CAS Annex B8
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                  Socma                   20.84    0.00    0.00   50.00   20.84    0.00    0.00   50.00
1995                  SIDECO                   0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Terminales Port.         9.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund               0.00   15.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.25    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund Mgr           0.00     .14    0.00    0.00    0.00      .04    0.00    0.00
1995/97               Kleppe/Caldero          11.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Zanon                   14.00    0.00    6.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    6.00    0.00
1996                  Banco Galicia           30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00
1996                  Bansud                  25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Brahma- ARG             17.79    0.00    0.00   29.70   17.79    0.00    0.00   29.70
1996                  CAPSA                   12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00
1996                  Grunbaum                 7.50    0.00    2.00    5.00    7.50    0.00    2.00    5.00
1996                  MBA                      0.00     .16    0.00    0.00    0.00      .16    0.00    0.00
1996                  Neuquen Basin            0.00   26.40    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.52    0.00    0.00
1996                  Refisan                 20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1996                  Transconor              25.00    0.00   20.00  210.00   25.00    0.00   20.00  210.00
1997                   FRIAR                  10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1997                  Guipeba                 15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                  Milkaut                 10.00    0.00   10.00    5.00   10.00    0.00   10.00    5.00
1997                  T61                     10.00    0.00    5.00   30.00   10.00    0.00    5.00   30.00
1997                  Vicentin                25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998                  FAID                     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      .96    0.00    0.00
1998                  Patagonia                5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  664.50  173.76  155.87  1,274.   594.71  126.46  155.83  1,176.
71                              86
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1996                  AGUAS III - INC         15.00    0.00    0.00   75.00
1997                  ARGIE MAE                0.00     .40    0.00   65.00
1998                  AUTCL                   12.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  AYG                       .45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  BANCO DEL SUQUIA    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00                        9
1998                  F.V. S.A.               12.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
1993                  FEPSA (II)               0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1998                  HOSPITAL PRIVADO    10.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  PATAGONIA FUND           0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  TGN II BLINC             0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
Total Pending Commitment:          50.05   20.40   14.00  154.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 06/05/98



Page 30
CAS Annex Bg
Gcenerated: 06/05/98
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
IBRDLoans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                              disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
No,                                                                       IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj          Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits. 56
Active Loans
AR-PE-5968    IBRD 28540  1987  SEGBA                            SEGBA V                    276.00       0.00            0.00         62.96     62.95      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-6009    IBRD 32970  1991  GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA          AG SERVCES&INST DEV         33.50       0.00            0.00          1.55      1.33       1.19      S             S
AR-PE-5977    IBRD 32810  1991  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               WTR SUPPLY II              100.00       0.00           36.00         22.86     58.87       1.00      S             S
AR-PE-6005    IBRD 32800  1991  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            PROVINC DEV PROJ           200.00       0.00            0.00         22.48     22.46      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-6034    IBRD 34600  1992  GOVERNMENT                       TAX ADMIN II                20.00       0.00            0.00           .12       .11       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-6003    IBRD 36110  1993  GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA          RD MAINT & REHAB SCT       340.00       0.00            0.00         87.98     71.50      0.00       5             S
AR-PE-6036    IBRD 35200  1993  GOVERNMENT                       YACYRFTA II                300.00       0.00            0.00          1.01      1.00       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-6062    IBRD 37100  1994  MIN OF ECONOMY                   CAPITAL MKT TA               8.50       0.00            0.00          3.22      3.20       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-6025    IBRD 36430  1994  GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA          MTNAL CHILD HLTH a N       100.00       0.00            0.00         25.00     14.37       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-6018    IBRD 38770  1995  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               PROV DEVT II               225.00       0.00            0.00       205.21      22.21       0.00      U             S
AR-PE-6060    IBRD 38600  1995  GOVT OF ARGENTINA                MUNIC DEVT II              210.00       0.00            0.00        177.51    -12.81       0.00      HS           HS
AR-PE-5992    IBRD 37940  1995  GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA          SECONDARY ED 1             190.00       0.00            0.00        149.58    112.62      0.00       S             U
AR-PE-45687   IBRD 40040  1996  REP. OF ARGRNTINA                H.INSURANCE TA              25.00       0.00            0.00          9.87       .29       0.00      HS            S
AR-PE-6057    IBRD 39710  1996  GOV'T OF ARGENTINA               SECNDARY ED 2              115.50       0.00            0.00        109.71     43.91      -5.79      S             S
AR-PE-38883   IBRD 39600  1996  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            ENT.EXPORT DV.              38.50       0.00            0.00         27.77     26.93       1.10      S             S
AR-PE-37049   IBRD 39580  1996  GOVT OF ARGENTINA                PUB.INV.STRENGTHG           16.00       0.00            0.00         15.50      8.98       0.00      U             U
AR-PE-35495   IBRD 39570  1996  SEC.OF SOC.DEVIT (OFFICE         SOCIAL PROTECTION          152.00       0.00            0.00          5.29      5.29       0.00      HS            S
AR-PE-6D40    IBRD 39480  1996  GOVERNMENT                       FORESTRY/DV                 16.00       0.00            0.00         13.21       .42       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-6030    IBRD 39310  1996  REPUB OF ARGENTINA               PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV       101.40       0.00            0.00         91.59     41.35       0.00      HS            S
AR-PE-6055    IBRD 39270  1996  GOVT. OF ARGENTINA               MINING SCTR DEVT            30.00       0.00            0.00         10.31     -1.71      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-40904   IBRD 39260  1996  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            BANK REFORM                500.00       0.00            0.00       166.00    166.00       0.00       S             S
AR-PE-34091   IBRD 39210  1996  REP OF ARGENTINA                 HIGHER ED REFORM           165.00       0.00            0.00       135.54      78.22     44.55       S             S
AR-PE-49268   IBRD 41950  1997  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               SOC.PROTECT.2              200.00       0.00            0.00         31.04    -85.62       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-43418   IBRD 41680  1997  REPUBLIC OF ARG                  AIDS PREV.&STD CTRL         15.00       0.00            0.00         14.02      1.27       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-6059    IBRD 41640  1997  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               MTL.CHD.HTH.2              100.00       0.00            0.00         96.67      1.67      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-39584   IBRD 41630  1997  GOVT OF ARGENTINA                B.A.URB.TSP                200.00       0.00            0.00       198.26      21.60      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-6010    IBRD 41500  1997  GOA                              PROV AG DEVT I             125.00       0.00            0.00       125.00       6.47       0.00      S             S
AR-PE-46821   IBRD 41310  1997  GOVT.OF ARG                      PENSION TA                  20.00       0.00            0.00         16.71      2.42      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-6052    IBRD 41170  1997  GOVT OF ARGENTINA                FLOOD PROTECTION           200.00       0.00            0.00       198.79       6.79      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-5980    IBRD 40930  1997  GOVT OF ARGENTINA                PROV ROADS                 300.00       0.00            0.00       298.99      35.32      0.00       S             U
AR-PE-40808   IBRD 40850  1997  GOA                              N.FOREST/PROTC              19.50       0.00            0.00        18.59       -.58      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-50713   IBRD 43140  1998  MINISTRY OF ECONOMY              MODEL COURT DEV.             5.00       0.00            0.00         5.00        .10      0.00       5             S
AR-PE-50714   IBRD 43130  1998  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            SECOND.ED 3                119.00       0.00            0.00       119.00      17.30      0.00
AR-PE-52590   IBRD 42950  1998  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT        450.00       0.00            0.00       450.00       0.00      0.00
AR-PE-55477   IBRD 42820  1998  GOVT OF ARGENTINA                MINING TA                   39.50       0.00            0.00        39.50       0.00      0.00
AR-PE-6050    IBRD 42810  1998  REP OF ARGENTINA                 POLLUTION MGT.              18.00       0.00            0.00        18.00        .07      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-55935   IBRD 42730  1998  GOVERNMENT                       EL NINO EMERGENCY           42.00       0.00            0.00        42.00       4.34      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-6006    IBRD 42210  1998  MIN. OF ECONOMY                  P.RFM(TUCUMAN)             100.00       0.00            0.00       100.00      55.00      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-51694   IBRD 42200  1998  GOVERNMENT                       P.RFM(S.JUAN)               50.00       0.00            0.00        50.00      10.00      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-51693  . IBRD 42190  1998  GOVERNMENT                      P.RFM(SALTA)                75.00       0.00            0.00        30.00       0.00      0.00       HS           HS
AR-PE-51695   IBRD 42180  1998  GOVERNMENT                       P.RFM(R.NEGRO)              75.00       0.00            0.00        50.00       8.34      0.00       S             S
AR-PE-6041    IBRD 42120  1998  GOVERNMENT                       SMALL FARMER DV.            75.00       0.00            0.00        75.00       5.54      1.00       S             S
Total                                                                                     5,390.40       0.00           36.00     3,320.84    817.52      43.05
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Page 31
CAS Annex B8
Generated: 06/05/98
Difference
Between expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                     disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                           IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               2,033.57            7,188.67            9,222.24
of which has been repaid:                213.68            3,084.11             3,297.79
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,150.82            4,207.46            9,358.28
Amount sold                                        0.00               12.79               12.79
of which repaid              :                 0.00               12.79                12.79
Total Undisbursed                             3,320.84               102.89           3,423.73
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Argentina at a glance                                                                8/28/97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America  middle-m-
Argentina   & Carib.  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         36.1       485       479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             8,410      3,710    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               295.0      1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          1.3        1.7      1.5      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%/6)                                       2.0        2.3      1.8    ! p                               prmary
per---                          prmy
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               26
Urban population (% of total population)                 BB        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 22        37        35               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under 5)                                                     Ae  to sf w
Access to safe water (% of population)                   64        80        86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      4        13        13                A
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   111       110       107          -Argentina
Male                                                                                   -    Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                            52.4     88.4      280.8    300.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 29.4     17.6       18.3     18.5             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              5.8     11.7        8.5      9.0 
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                      29.3     23.1       18.4     18.1
Gross national savings/GDP                    28.4     16.6       17.5     17.2
Current account balance/GDP                   -2.5     -1.1       -0.9     -1.3
Interest payments/GDP                          0.9      5.0        2.1      2.3      Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                14.7     57.6       32.0     33.2
Total debt service/exports                    44.7     60.1       47.4     46.7
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..      ..       29.5
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    332.1         ..
Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     Argentina
GDP                                   0.6      2.9     -4.6        4.4      5.0 
GNP per capita                       -1.8      2.0     -6.4        2.8      3.9             Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         5.1      7.6     26.4        7.4      8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                   1976      1985      1995      1996   jGrowth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                    6.6      7.6        7.4      7.1     40 T
Industry                                      50.1     39.3       36.0     36.2     30
Manufacturing                               38.2     29.7         ..        .       0
Services                                      43.3     53.1       56.6     56.7               _
-to     91   92   93   94             96
Private consumption                           58.1       ..       72.3     73.3    -20
General government consumption                12.6       ..        9.4      8.5               - 0GDI         0    GDP
Imports of goods and services                  6.0      6.3        8.5      9.3
1976-865  1986-96     1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports
Agriculture                                    1.6      1.5        2.3      0.3      to,
Industry                                      -1.5      2.7       -8.5      4.9     60
Manufacturing                               -1.6      0.9
Services                                       2.2      3.3       -3.0      4.6      40i
20
Private consumption                              ..      ..       -8.6      5.7
General government consumption                  ..       ..       -6.6     -5.4                   9
Gross domestic investment                     -3.5      5.7      -11.9      5.4    -20
Imports of goods and services                  2.4     14.5      -14.0     10.0                - xports       e  Imports
Gross national product                        -0.3      3.4       -5.1      4.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996   jnla-                                   -
Domestic prices                                                                     Infation (%)
(% change)                                                                          3,000
Consumer prices                              182.6    672.3        3.4      0.1
Implicit GDP deflator                        198.2    618.2        4.5      2.5    .,' 0
Government finance                                                                      t I
(% of GDP)                                                                             o
Current revenue                                 ..        ..      16.7     16.5              91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       -0.2     -1.1               -GDPdef  -0*-OPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         .,       ..       -1.1      -2.4
TRADE
1975     1985      1996      1996                                           -
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                          2,961    8,396    20,964   23,774   | 25,000
Food                                          ..        ..    1,969    2,203    ,
Meat                                           ..       ..    1,582    1955         ,000
Manufactures                                   ..       ..   10,836   12,004       ,oos     i             1
Total imports (cif)                          3,947    3,814    20,120   23.733 5--. 5                     '
Food                                                                              10,00 
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..       809      846  |s,ooo
Capital goods                                  ..       ..    4,746    5,647          0 L
Export price index (1987=100)                                     118       124            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                                     115       120   i              oExports   [ Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        -                 102      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996     -
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                3,498   10,039    23,889   27,076      2 T
Imports of goods and services                4,324    5,285    23,826   27,900
Resource balance                              -826    4,754        63      -824         7
Net income                                    -466   -5,706    -2,941   -3,523   !           9    9    9    9    9    96
Net current transfers                            6        0       432       334         90   91   921.93 1  9
Current account balance,                                                            -2      -                   I
before official capital transfers         -1,286     -952    -2,446   -4,013                        I         ;
Financing items (net)                         208    2,200       2,515      231
Changes in net reserves                      1,078   -1,248        -69    3,782    -4 -
Memo:                                                                              .
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           848    4,703      15,992   19,774
Conversion rate (local/US$)                3.7E-10  6.OE-05        1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         7,723   50,946    89,719   99,701
IBRD                                        341       700     4,913    5,372                  G        A
IOA                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  4913   C
IDA                                           0         0         0         0     Composition10ot debt, 199 ill. US)
Total debt service                           1,603    6,209      9,732   14,529                                    D
IBRD                                         43       114       565      608
IDA                                           0         0         0        0                                       E
11709
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0         6        36
Official creditors                           59       217      1,411
Private creditors                          -111    2,350      5,674
Foreign direct investment                     0      919      1,319                         F F
Portfolio equity                              0         0       211        ..             52323
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0         0     2,272      946       A-IBRD                      E- Bllateral
Disbursements                                19       144       941    1,077       8-IDA    D-Othermultilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                         17       68        259      282       C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                      1       75       682      795
Interest payments                            26       46        306      326
Net transfers                                -25       30       376      469
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/28/97



