Page  1
CONFORMED COPY              
LOAN NUMBER 4366-AR
Loan Agreement
(Third Social Protection Project - TRABAJAR)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4366-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 1998, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meaning:
(a)
"Arg.$" means the currency of the Borrower;
Page  2
(b)
"Directorate of Employment and Training Policies" means the Dirección 
Nacional de Políticas de Empleo y Capacitación of the Borrower's Ministry of Labor (as 
defined hereinafter);
(c)
"Ministry of Labor" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Trabajo y de 
Seguridad Social;
(d)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in the letter of 
even date with this Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(f)
"Project Management Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Subprojects" means small infrastructure projects including construction, 
repair, expansion, or remodeling for schools, health facilities, basic sanitation 
facilities, small roads and bridges, culverts and small canals, community kitchens, 
tourist centers, low-cost housing and community services, eligible for financing under 
the TRABAJAR Program (as defined hereinafter) in accordance with  the provisions of 
the Operational Manual and approved for inclusion in the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.06 of  this Agreement; and
(i)
"TRABAJAR Program" means the Borrower's programs called ‘TRABAJAR II" 
established by Ministerial Resolution M.T.S.S. No. 240/97 dated April 16, 1997 and 
"TRABAJAR III" established by Ministerial Resolution M.T.S.S. No. 327/98 dated May 8, 
1998.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred eighty-four million Dollars ($284,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
Page  3
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof; and
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable February 15 and August 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Procurement of goods under Part A of the Project shall be limited to 
Subprojects that meet the following criteria:
(i)
located in municipalities that have an index of unsatisfied basic 
needs of over 40%;
(ii)
fall in the categories of potable water provision or community 
infrastructure; and
(iii)
require the procurement of goods in an aggregate amount of less 
than $20,000 equivalent.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
Page  4
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall provide overall management of the Project through the Directorate of Employment 
and Training Policies.
(b)
For the purpose of assisting the Directorate of Employment and Training 
Policies in the overall management of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain 
throughout the execution of the Project within said Directorate a Project management 
unit with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with 
managers with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through the Directorate of Employment and Training 
Policies, shall ensure that the wage rates applicable to the services of temporary and 
fixed term workers employed under the Project shall not exceed Arg.$200 per month.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, through the Directorate of Employment and 
Training Policies, carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of an operational manual acceptable to the Bank and shall:
(i)
approve Subprojects estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less 
and maintain until at least one year after the Closing Date the 
relevant documentation for the Bank's ex-post review; and
(ii)
forward to the Bank for its information all Subprojects estimated 
to cost more than $350,000 equivalent, including all relevant 
documentation, after said Subprojects have been approved by the 
Project Management Unit.
(b)
For the purposes of subparagraphs (a) (i) and (ii) of this Section, the 
relevant documentation shall include:
(i)
an appraisal of the Subproject and the environmental screening or 
assessment (including the mitigation plan if indicated by such 
screening or assessment) of the Subproject;
(ii)
a detailed description of how such Subproject meets the criteria 
and requirements set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(iii)
such other information as the Bank may reasonably request in 
respect of such Subproject.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through the Project Management Unit, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives;
(b)
by February 15 and August 15 of each year of Project execution, furnish 
to the Bank a semi-annual progress report on the execution of the Project, said 
reports to be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and 
to include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)
include in the progress report to be furnished to the Bank by February 
15, 1999 pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, a report on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project since its beginning and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
its objectives; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by March 30, 1999 or such later date as the Bank 
may request, the progress report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  5
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the Directorate of Employment and 
Training Policies, shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower, through the Project Management Unit, shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the  Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
Directorate of Employment and Training Policies, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the Operational Manual shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, materially and adversely the efficient execution of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to 
permit that the procurement of goods and services to be financed with Loan proceeds be 
undertaken in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Page  6
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date of January 20, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 1 
1.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
1 1.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios
  Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  7
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
(a) under Part A
  30,000,000
80%
of the Project
(b) under Part B
   1,000,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(2)
Services:
(a) Remuneration for
 242,000,000
80%
temporary and fixed
term workers under
Part A of the
Project
(b) Consultants'
 11,000,000
100%
services
TOTAL
284,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "remuneration for temporary and fixed term workers" means 
remuneration for temporary and fixed term employment provided, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, under the TRABAJAR Program, subject to the 
limitation set forth in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $28,000,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1998 but not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
remuneration for temporary and fixed term workers under Part A of the 
Project;
(b) 
goods costing $100,000 equivalent or less per contract;
(c)
goods under contracts to be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B. 1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, except for the first two such 
contracts;
(d)
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
and 
(e)
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce poverty and to expand or improve 
economic and social infrastructure facilities in the Borrower’s territory through the 
execution of small infrastructure projects under the TRABAJAR Program for employment 
creation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
TRABAJAR Program
Execution of Subprojects.
Part B:
 Project Management
Strengthening the capacity of the Directorate of Employment and Training 
Policies to carry out the TRABAJAR Program through the provision of specialized 
technical assistance.
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of the Directorate of Employment and Training 
Policies to monitor and evaluate the Project and related programs through the 
provision of specialized technical assistance.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
   Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each February15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2004 
through August 15, 2013
14,200,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  9
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part B.1, standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of local shopping procedures acceptable to the 
Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods costing less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts. the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to the first two contracts or bid packages for goods procured 
under Part B.1 of this Section.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants and Employment of Temporary and Fixed-
term Workers under Part A of the Project
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  10
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 13 through 18 thereof applicable to quality- 
and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B of the Project may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications: 
Services under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for administrative support on tasks related to Project management may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Employment of Temporary and Fixed-term Workers under Part A of the 
Project
Procurement of the services of temporary and fixed-term workers under Part A of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of  $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. With respect to each contract for consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, the terms of reference shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval and the contract shall be awarded only 
after said approval shall have been given.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. With respect to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, 
the terms of reference shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval and the contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  11
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $30,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall  furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents  and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of  which  replenishment is  requested. On  
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  12
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
