               Document of
             The World Bank




                                          Report No: 26134-AR

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (SCL-43660)

                   ON A

                  LOAN

IN THE AMOUNT OF US$284 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                  TO THE

           ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                  FOR A

     THIRD SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT




               June 30, 2003

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 13, 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                                        1 peso = US$ 1 (1998-2001)
                                                   .35 (2003)
                                        US$ 1 = 1 peso (1998-2001)
                                                   2.80 pesos (2003)

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1-    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGN     Auditoría General de la Nación (National     NBI            Necesidades Básicas Insatisfechas
        Audit Agency)                                               (Unsatisfied Basic Needs)
ANSES   Administración Nacional de la Seguridad      NGO            Nongovernmental Organization
        Social (National Social Security
        Administration)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                  PASS           Workfare program of the
                                                                    Province of Santa Fe
DECRG   Development Research Group (World            PEL            Programa de Emergencia
        Bank)                                                       Laboral (Emergency Work
                                                                    Program)
GOA     Government of Argentina                      PIU            Project Implementation Unit
FONAVI  Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda (National      QAG            Quality Assurance Group
        Housing Fund)                                               (World Bank)
MTSS    Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad    PRWP           Policy Research Working
        Social (Ministry of Labor, Employment and                   Paper
        Social Security)
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and    UNEC           Unidad Ejecutora Central
        Development (World Bank)                                    (Central Implementation Unit)
ICR     Implementation Completion Report             URAT           Unidad Regional de Aprobación
                                                                    Técnica (Regional Technical
                                                                    Approval Unit)




                               Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                  Country Manager/Director:       Axel van Trotsenburg
                   Sector Manager/Director:       Christopher Chamberlin
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Theresa Jones

                                        ARGENTINA
                                      AR-Social Protec.3


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainability                                                                 10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                14
9. Partner Comments                                                               15
10. Additional Information                                                        16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             25
Annex 8. Type of Subprojects Approved                                             26
Annex 9. Subproject Completion Rates by Province and Type                         27
Annex 10. Poor Area Targeting Performance                                         28
Annex 11. Targeting Performance by Five Month Intervals, TRABAJAR II and III      29
Annex 12. Program Spending by Five Month Intervals, TRABAJAR II and III           30
Annex 13. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      31

Project ID: P049269                                                      Project Name: AR-Social Protec.3
Team Leader: Theresa Jones                                               TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 25, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: AR-Social Protec.3                                       L/C/TF Number: SCL-43660
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (96%); Central government administration
                            (4%)
                  Theme: Social risk coping (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/02/1998                                        Effective: 11/03/1998              11/03/1998
   Appraisal:    04/21/1998                                            MTR: 12/01/1999                12/15/1999
    Approval:    06/30/1998                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               12/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ARGENTINE REPUBLIC/MIN. OF LABOR & SOCIAL SECURITY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S.Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Christopher Chamberlin                         Xavier E. Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Theresa Jones                                  Theresa Jones
ICR Primary Author:             Theresa Jones; Marcelo Becerra;
                                Christina Alquinta


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the Argentina Third Social Protection project was to support the third phase
of TRABAJAR, a social safety net program of workfare. Through the execution of small infrastructure
facilities, it was expected that TRABAJAR would contribute to improvements in the living standards of the
communities where the subprojects were located and would create opportunities for temporary employment
for poor workers.

The project built on the experience of the first and second Social Protection Projects. The first Social
Protection project safeguarded critical social programs, including the first phase of TRABAJAR during the
1995-96 Tequila crisis, while the second Social Protection project financed the continuation of the
TRABAJAR program during 1997-98. These projects shared the objective of supporting improvements to
the TRABAJAR program, particularly in the areas of targeting, the quality of subprojects, and evaluation
-- aspects that have had wide applicability to other social programs in Argentina.

The development objectives were realistic and consistent with the priority needs for social protection, as
well as the Government of Argentina's strategy. The project supported the CAS objective of enhancing
social development, including poverty alleviation and strengthening the social safety net. The CAS
explicitly included a program of public works assistance in order to temper the effects of the economic
recession that had continued in 1997-98, after a short-lived recovery. Although the unemployment rate
declined slightly from its peak of almost 19 percent in 1996, it was still high at the end of project execution,
standing at 17.8 percent in October, 2002.

The development objectives were based on the Government of Argentina's interest in reducing poverty,
strengthening the social safety net and improving the efficiency of social expenditures. The Government's
strategy to reduce poverty was based on the strong link between unemployment and poverty, thus attention
has been focused on actions to promote more job creation. At the same time, the Government endeavored
to design effective social safety net programs to address the needs of the poor, and in particular to confront
the immediate problem of high unemployment. Unemployment was above average levels among the poor,
who did not have access to other safety nets, such as unemployment insurance or severance payments. In
reference to improving the efficiency of social expenditures, this project supported several improvements in
the procedures of TRABAJAR in order to address some of the weaknesses identified in an ex-post
evaluation of the TRABAJAR program. These included: (i) ensuring that more projects were visited during
the evaluation process; (ii) providing more assistance to executing agencies during project implementation;
(iii) following more closely the results of project supervision; and (iv) organizing better the subproject
cycle.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objective was not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The Third Social Protection project, financed with a US$284 million loan and with US$733 in counterpart
funds, consisted of the following three components:

Component 1: TRABAJAR Subprojects (US$ 1.05 billion; 97.5% of total project costs). This component
was designed to maximize the benefits for poor workers in the country as well as for poor communities, by
providing temporary financial assistance to poor workers through the execution of small infrastructure
projects. In addition to helping poor, unemployed workers, the activities under this component would



                                                      - 2 -

improve social and economic infrastructure in poor communities, thereby raising living standards. It was
expected that under this component about 300,000 workers would participate in the TRABAJAR program
and 15,000 projects would be financed. In response to the Bank's request and their own concerns, the
Ministry of Labor took several steps to improve the transparency and social control of the program during
implementation, particularly regarding beneficiary selection. Lists of the beneficiaries working on
individual projects were made available on the internet. Also, rules were made that stipulated that
beneficiaries would have to be selected from lists provided by the Offices of Employment Services, if they
existed in the area. Initial experience showed that these steps were perceived favorably, and there was
some evidence that it facilitated greater opportunity for participation by more vulnerable households.

Subprojects would be proposed by municipalities, provinces, national agencies or organizations of civil
society. The main source of subproject requests was expected to be municipalities, given the types of
projects eligible for financing. All subprojects were to be evaluated by professionals (mainly architects and
engineers) contracted by the provincial offices of the MTSS, according to a methodology outlined in the
operational manual, which included economic, technical, financial, institutional, environmental, and social
aspects. A database on prices of materials as well as unit costs was developed from previously approved
projects and was designed to be used to compare the budgets presented in the project proposals.

Subprojects were supposed to be labor-intensive and relatively small, with an average project size of less
than $100,000, employing an average of 20 workers. To be considered for financing subprojects had to:
(i) fall within the accepted menu of subprojects; (ii) be technically sound; (iii) be implemented in a short
period of time (3 to 6 months); (iv) employ no more than 100 people; and (v) offer a monthly wage of $200
or less to participating workers. In order to maximize the number of beneficiaries that could be covered in
the context of increasing fiscal constraints, in 2000, the Ministry of Labor lowered the maximum value of
transfers to beneficiaries from $200 Arg. pesos/mo. to $160 Arg. pesos/ mo. The types of subprojects
eligible for financing included rehabilitation, expansion, and new construction covering: potable water,
sewerage, latrines, housing, roads, urban works, irrigation, schools, health centers and other community
social infrastructure. Subprojects would be supervised at least two times during implementation, and for 30
percent of subprojects, a site visit would accompany evaluation.

Subprojects that received a positive evaluation would be considered at monthly meetings by committees
constituted at the regional level, which included members of civil society as observers. Subprojects were
then to be ranked by a point system according to several criteria, the most important of which was the
poverty level of the area in which the subproject was located. If the subprojects were approved, payments
to workers would be made through checks processed by the National Social Security Agency (ANSES) and
paid directly to the workers in different payment locations (banks or post offices). Before payment was
made, cross checks were carried out to ensure that the beneficiary was not receiving unemployment
compensation nor was employed in the formal sector. The payment system was modified slightly during
implementation to depend almost exclusively on banks and to lower the processing fees. This was an
improvement since it reduced administrative costs and improved controls. There had been problems
because the post office did not return money unclaimed from beneficiaries to the Ministry of Labor in a
timely manner.

Under the previous Social Protection projects, TRABAJAR had only financed the costs of unskilled labor.
Under the Third Social Protection Project, provision was made for TRABAJAR to finance the costs of
materials for selected projects in poor areas in order to improve geographical targeting. These projects
would have to satisfy several criteria including: (i) be located in one of 300 municipalities in which the
share of the population with unsatisfied basic needs (NBI) is over 40 percent; (ii) fall into the category of
either potable water or social infrastructure (including education, health, and sanitary facilities for those


                                                      - 3 -

and other community infrastructure); and (iii) cost no more than $35,000. Given the US$30 million that
had been allocated for this category, it was estimated that materials could be covered for up to 1,500
projects, about 10 percent of the total number of projects expected to be financed under the loan. Although
the initial experience with financing subproject materials during 1999 was successful, it was discontinued
at the beginning of 200 because of a drop in the budget and the ensuing uncertainty over future budget
allocations. Financing of materials was re-launched at the end of 2000 when the Ministry of Labor
received a budget allocation for this category of expenditure from the Ministry of Economy. However,
subsequently the Government decided to request a re-allocation of $26.5 million from this component of the
loan to cover payments to beneficiaries.

Component 2: Project Administration (US$ 25 million, 2.3 % of total project costs). This component
was designed to cover the administrative costs associated with the management and supervision of project
implementation. TRABAJAR was directed by a small team within the Directorate of Employment and
Training Policies in the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Day-to-day management was handled by
the provincial Offices of Employment and Training. The management team provided the subproject menu,
criteria and other instructions for subproject preparation, evaluation, approval and supervision. It was also
responsible for assigning the resources for each province according to the distribution of the poor
unemployed.

Additionally, an ex-post evaluation of a sample of TRABAJAR subprojects financed in 1997 indicated the
existence of some weaknesses in the evaluation and supervision procedures used by the Ministry. As a
result, in the design of the third TRABAJAR project, the Ministry gained additional responsibilities to
ensure that more projects were visited during the evaluation process, provide more assistance to executing
agencies during project implementation, follow more closely the results of the project supervision, and
better organize the subproject cycle.

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation of Employment Program (US$2 million, .2 % of total project
costs). This component was designed to finance the evaluation and monitoring of the TRABAJAR
program, as well as for other employment programs operated by the MTSS. Evaluation of the
TRABAJAR program was intended to include ex-post evaluations of subproject quality. Some of these
evaluations were to focus on special topics, such as the experience with subproject operations and
maintenance, specific project categories and problems with executing agencies. The evaluations carried out
under the project jointly by the DECRG of the Bank and staff of the Ministry of Labor included: "Do
Workfare Participants Recover Quickly from Retrenchment?", Policy Research Working Paper (PRWP),
no. 2672 by Martin Ravallion, Emanuela Galasso, Teodoro Lazo, and Ernesto Philipp, September 2001,
and "Assisting the Transition from Workfare to Work: A Randomized Experiment" by Emanuela Galasso,
Martin Ravallion and Agustin Salvia, PRWP no. 2738 (December 2001). In addition, a joint evaluation
was carried out to try to identify the impact of the projects financed under the Program in the communities
where they were located.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised during project implementation.

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation of Employment Program.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project was designed before routine quality assessments were initiated, thus there is no QAG rating.
However, for the purposes of this report, the project's quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The program
fit well with both the Bank's and the Borrower's strategies, and was an appropriate fit with the institutional



                                                      - 4 -

capacities in Argentina at the time.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The Third Social Protection Project was successful in achieving its objectives by meeting or
surpassing the original goals in most areas, albeit with significant delays. Contextual factors that had an
impact on implementation included budget cuts and a change in political administration in late 1999. In
addition, the decline in unemployment rates in 1997-98, was reversed beginning in 1999 and the Argentine
economy stayed in recession, leading to an increase in poverty in the country.

Temporary financial assistance to unemployed poor. Social Protection III achieved its primary
objective, to reduce poverty by providing temporary income support to poor, unemployed workers. The
project generated 464,102 temporary jobs for which about US$362 million in payments to workers were
made. The initial goal established for the Program was 300,000 temporary jobs. The initial monthly wage
paid to workers was 200 Arg. pesos, later reduced to 160 Arg. pesos.

Evidence on the extent to which TRABAJAR was successful in reaching the poor and the amount of the
income gain to participating households is available from an evaluation carried out between 1999-2000 (for
more details see "Do Workfare Participants Recover Quickly from Retrenchment?", Policy Research
Working Paper No. 2672 by Ravallion, Galasso, Lazo, and Philipp). The aim of the evaluation was to
answer two main questions: Is the program reaching poor families through the direct incomes gains from
TRABAJAR jobs? What happens when their participation in the program has finished? To address these
questions, a special-purpose survey of random samples of TRABAJAR participants was done in May/June
1999 in 3 provinces, and repeated in 3 subsequent rounds of the survey done at six month intervals. The
timing of the survey of TRABAJAR participants was chosen to coincide with the twice-yearly household
survey carried out by the National Statistical Institute in Argentina. The larger household survey was the
source of the control group. The Bank worked closely with staff in the project unit to construct matched
control groups from the household survey. Propensity score matching methods were used, following Jalan
and Ravallion (Income Gains to the Poor from Workfare: Estimates for Argentina's Trabajar Program,
Policy Research Working Paper, no. 2149), in their previous evaluation of TRABAJAR, using a different
survey carried out in 1997. By matching the program participants with nonparticipants in the larger survey
based on their characteristics, it was possible to create a counterfactual group and estimate what program
participants' incomes would have been if they had not participated in the TRABAJAR program.

The evaluation found that over half of participant households had incomes that placed them in the poorest
10 percent of the population. Nearly 80 percent were in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution.
Given a headcount poverty rate of 29 percent at project inception in Argentina (it has since risen to more
than 50 percent), it is reasonable to conclude that the vast majority of participating households were poor.
These results were very similar to the results of the previous evaluation, suggesting that the finding that the
program was very good at providing income support through work to poor families was robust. The
evaluation also followed up with workers for a year after they left the program and compared them with the
control group of those who stayed in the Program. The results showed that the initial income loss after
leaving TRABAJAR was sizeable, representing about three-quarters of the gross wage within the first six
months, although falling to less than half over 12 months. The conclusion is that the program generated
sizeable net income gains to participants, again similar in magnitude to the results of the previous
evaluation of TRABAJAR.

TRABAJAR tried to target both poor workers and poor communities by offering a relatively low wage rate



                                                      - 5 -

and by ensuring that the work was carried out in poor areas, thereby benefiting the poor as workers and
also as residents. In the paper "Performance in Reaching Argentina's Poor as Workers" (October 2000),
Martin Ravallion measured TRABAJAR's performance in reaching poor areas using the poor-area
targeting differential. This measure is the regression coefficient of TRABAJAR spending per capita on the
per capita poverty rate, estimated across all departments in each province. (For more detail on the
methodology, see "Monitoring Targeting Performance When Decentralized Allocations to the Poor are
Unobserved." by Martin Ravallion, Policy Research Working Paper, No. 2080). This figure can be
interpreted as the difference between per capita spending on the poor and that on the non-poor. Poverty is
measured by the proportion of the population with unmet basic needs. This measure is not ideal (given that
it is dated, and the composition and weighting of the indicators used can be questioned) but it was the best
option available. Under the second phase of TRABAJAR (1997-1998), financed by the previous Social
Protection II Project, the poorest department received on average almost $37 more per person than the least
poor department. However, under the third phase, the poorest department received on average only $17
more per person than the least poor department. A large part of this deterioration was due to the lower rate
of expenditures. In fact, controlling for the lower rate of spending, targeting performance did not deteriorate
up to the end of 1999. The experience with the program has been that the gains to the poor relative to the
non-poor varied with total spending. The political economy of the program's operation in most provinces
entailed that budget cuts were borne mainly by poor areas. This partly reflects the fact that the program
was already favoring poor areas, and there was thus little slack for cutting heavily in less poor departments
while still allowing for sufficiently broad participation. The decision to reallocate the resources initially set
aside in the loan to co-finance materials costs for projects in poor municipalities also negatively affected
targeting performance. Thus, although the Program was targeted to poor areas (as shown by the positive
sign of the targeting differential), the differential between spending in poor and non-poor areas was not as
great under the third phase of TRABAJAR as it was under the previous phase. (For more detail, see Annex
Tables 10-12).

The participation of women increased to 20 percent in the third phase of TRABAJAR, compared to 17
percent in the second phase. Women's participation varied greatly across provinces, with some having
relatively high participation (30-40%, in line with female participation in the labor market) and others very
low (10%). The 2001 impact evaluation study (Jalan and Ravallion) found no evidence of gender bias in
the Program. If there were discrimination against women in allocating TRABAJAR jobs, one would expect
to see unexploited welfare gains from higher female participation. If the net income gain is higher for
women than men, it would imply that there is an income loss from lower female participation. However,the
net wage gains from the program accruing to female participants were virtually identical to the gains for
male participants. The distribution of female participation was less pro-poor; while over half of the
members of participating families were in the poorest decile nationally, this was true of less than 40 percent
of the members of female participants' families. This probably reflects lower wages for women in other
work, making the TRABAJAR wage more attractive to the non-poor.

Asset creation in poor communities. Judging the performance of TRABAJAR in the area of asset
creation is difficult because of the mix of development objectives and because the program worked in
several sectors. It would not be fair to compare it with infrastructure projects that have no labor intensity
or poverty/targeting objectives. Nor is it completely fair to compare it to other programs that guarantee
employment, but subordinate the infrastructure creation goals. Despite these difficulties, evidence from
subproject supervision and an ex-post subproject evaluation indicated that the majority of subprojects
financed by TRABAJAR were of good quality and generated positive benefits in the communities in which
they were executed. Subproject design had a great deal to do with this positive impact: subprojects had to
be delivered in a short time period, usually less than 6 months, so benefits were attained relatively quickly.
Activities that would only generate temporary benefits, such as cleaning drains, general maintenance, and


                                                        - 6 -

the like were not eligible. Instead the subproject menu emphasized projects that would generate benefits
beyond temporary employment that would also not be wasteful to the community. Examples of these types
of activities include water supply and social infrastructure.

Annex 8 presents information on the number of projects completed in each of the major categories. The
most common subprojects were undertaken to improve urban roads, sewerage and drainage systems,
housing, as well as schools and secondary roads. Additionally, about 1,660 subprojects were financed in
educational infrastructure, which includes school and classroom construction and/or rehabilitation. A large
number (1,471) of community infrastructure projects were also carried out, including day care, community
and sports centers. Almost 3000 subprojects were undertaken to construct low-cost housing, which were
typically done at a lower cost than those built under the Government's traditional public housing program,
FONAVI.

One of the challenges faced by the TRABAJAR program was increasing subproject quality and ensuring
timely completion. The project's goal was to complete 75 percent of projects on time and in a satisfactory
manner. Despite adverse conditions, the project managed to complete 72 percent of subprojects on time
and in a satisfactory way. Although the project did not quite meet its goal in this respect, considering that
it was operating in a climate of economic and social crisis, this can be considered a reasonable outcome.
Additionally, an analysis of performance among provinces shows that 42 percent of the provinces either
met or exceeded the target of 75 percent, and very poor performance was concentrated in only a few areas,
namely Santa Cruz (56% completion rate), Tierra del Fuego (42.6%) and Neuquén (58.4%), for example.
Annex 9 includes a table that shows the differences in subproject type and corresponding completion rates
among the provinces.

In late 2001 a sample of 110 subprojects financed under the Social Protection III Project were reviewed.
The study focused on the value of the subproject, its quality and cost, environmental aspects, and
operations and maintenance. In 70 percent of the cases the facility was in full operation, for about 10
percent of the cases, operation was partial, and in 16 percent of the cases the facility was not yet
functioning. The evaluation of the quality of the works and their current status was high for 70 percent of
the subprojects, 14 percent were classified as medium, 5 percent were judged deficient and for 10 percent
there was not sufficient information to make a judgement. These results demonstrate a substantial
improvement over the results of a similar review carried out of a sample of subprojects financed under the
Social Protection II project (the previous phase of TRABAJAR). In the earlier report, the conclusion was
that only about a third of the localities visited had optimized the use of resources for the subprojects; the
share for the recent review is 80 percent. Most of the problems identified in the earlier review - especially
in reference to the costing and dimensioning of subprojects - had been resolved using the technical
parameters established by the project implementation unit and used during the evaluation process for
subprojects. Evaluations show that the TRABAJAR program frequently had a high impact on local
development, especially for small municipalities, where a large proportion of public investment was made
by the project. Equally important, it is significant that it was widely perceived not only as a workfare
program, but also as a public investment program that generates benefits for communities.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Subprojects

Satisfactory. By the closing date, the project had generated 464,102 temporary jobs (with an average
duration of close to 5 months) and financed about 26,500 subprojects. Payments to beneficiaries amounted
to US$362 million (Annex Table 1). The most common types of subprojects included: urban roads (23%),
sewerage and drainage (15%), housing and social assistance infrastructure (each accounting for about



                                                       - 7 -

10%), schools and secondary roads (each for about 8%), and community gardens and potable water (each
accounting for about 5%)(See Annex Table 8). About 72 percent of the subprojects were completed
satisfactorily, which is only slightly short of the 75 percent target (Annex Table 9).

The financing of materials under the TRABAJAR program had good results. Through this activity,
TRABAJAR financed 230 projects amounting to a total of $2.6 million in workfare expenses and $3.3
million in materials. The design of the component and the process of execution were exemplary and thus
complied with criteria for optimal public investment, thereby leading to good outcomes. Unfortunately, the
Government in 2000 decided to reallocate most of the resources assigned initially for this category of
spending (US$30 million) to payments to workers, given the tight fiscal constraints and the rising levels of
unemployment.

Component 2: Project Administration

Satisfactory. Program implementation and administration was satisfactory throughout the process, despite
adverse conditions and situations including budget cuts, the increased importance of other programs in the
Ministry of Labor's portfolio under the new administration beginning in 2000, as well as the political and
economic crisis in 2001-2. In addition, the Ministry was successful in working with the Ministry of
Education to mount a coordinated effort to undertake projects to rehabilitate school infrastructure. The
slower than expected disbursements reflected decisions by the central Government to reduce the budget
allocation for the Program, and the decision by the Ministry of Labor to begin other programs. The
exception to this generally good performance were chronic delays in submitting the required annual audit
reports.

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation of Employment Program

Satisfactory. The monitoring system established under the previous Social Protection II Project continued
to operate well and during implementation the agreed upon indicators were tracked continuously and served
as an important input for project management and Bank supervision missions. Several evaluations were
carried out and several resulted in publications authored jointly by Bank and Ministry staff. The most
important of these were the study of what happened to workers once they left the TRABAJAR Program,
mentioned earlier, an evaluation of a wage subsidy for private employment provided by the Ministry during
this time, and an evaluation of the impact of a sample of TRABAJAR projects in the communities where
they were carried out.

The above mentioned evaluation of the private wage subsidy provided by the Ministry was carried out
between December 1998 and the end of 2000. The purpose was to study the transition from welfare to
work and whether wage subsidies and/or training programs could be effective to ease this transition and at
what cost ("Assisting the Transition from Workfare to Work: A Randomized Experiment", by Emanuela
Galasso, Martin Ravallion and Agustin Salvia, Policy Research Working Paper, No. 2738). The study
carried out an experiment in a welfare dependent region by giving randomly sampled participants engaged
in the TRABAJAR program a voucher that entitled an employer to a sizable wage subsidy. A second
sample also received the option of skills training and a third sample formed the control group. The study
analyzed the effects of this subsidy/training scheme on participants' employment and income and found that
compared to the control group, voucher recipients had a significantly higher probability of employment,
though their incomes were not higher. Gains were confined to the young (under 30) and women. It appears
that voucher recipients took up private sector jobs in the expectation of a higher and/or more stable stream
of future income. There was no significant extra impact from the training.




                                                       - 8 -

The study concentrated in the welfare dependent department of Confluencia, located in the province of
Neuquén. The TRABAJAR participation rate in this department was unusually high relative to the
expected demand for the program. In 1998, the average number of TRABAJAR participants per month
represented 28 percent of the estimated number of people living in poor households that included an
unemployed worker; the corresponding national figure was only 5 percent. Additionally, the proportion of
the population living in households who had a total income per person below the poverty line and at least
one unemployed person was 3.5 percent in Confluencia and 4.2 percent nationally. Thus, the Ministry
contracted this study in order to explore the policy options for assisting workfare participants dependent on
the program and improve overall program targeting.

In the study of the impact of the projects in communities a sample of projects was selected and a sample of
both users and non-users of the facilities were interviewed in the communities.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A workfare program, such as TRABAJAR, generates two types of benefits: direct benefits, which are the
net income gain to poor workers, and indirect benefits, which are mainly the value of assets to
communities. The cost-effectiveness of workfare, in other words, the proportion of total expenditure that is
accountable to the net income gain to poor workers can be decomposed into the following four variables:
(i) the budget leverage, or the amount of private financing mobilized by the project; (ii) the labor intensity,
or the share of the cost of unskilled labor in the total project cost; (iii) the targeting performance; and (iv)
the proportionate net wage gain to poor participants. From the information available, it is estimated that
the cost of transferring $1 to poor workers through the TRABAJAR program is about $4-5, which is about
the same as it was in the second phase of the program since the basic parameters did not change. These
calculations suggest that the case for TRABAJAR as an anti-poverty scheme rests heavily on establishing
that the indirect benefits are of sufficient value to poor people to outweigh the extra costs that are incurred
by providing the direct benefits through this type of program. (For more detail on the analysis, see
"Appraising Workfare", World Bank Research Observer 15:31-48, 1999).

Several features of TRABAJAR suggest that the indirect benefits, particularly through the assets created in
the communities, help tilt the balance in favor of TRABAJAR over alternative transfer-based programs.
These features include: well-defined project selection criteria and approval procedures; co-financing of
non-labor project costs by local governments; and the existence of considerable administrative and
monitoring controls.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. The project contributed to improved capacity to manage large social programs, especially in the
areas of strong technical management, increased use of objective criteria to guide implementation,
establishment and use of monitoring indicators, and undertaking high-quality, practical, and timely impact
evaluations. However, this improved capacity was not always exploited fully, for example, during
2000-2002. Even with the significant capacity improvements (assisted in some measure by the Third
Social Protection Project), the sustainability of the impact turned out to be influenced significantly by the
presence or lack of political support.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome



                                                       - 9 -

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Serious floods affected several Argentine provinces and disrupted implementation. The floods made it
difficult to implement new subprojects and delayed the completion of some subprojects already in progress.
Funds from TRABAJAR were used to support reconstruction subprojects in the wake of these floods.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The economic and social crisis that began to be felt in Argentina in 2000 had a negative effect on the
project. Budget allocations, both for the Government contribution as well as for loan funds, were tightly
constrained. To make matters worse, budget allocations during the year were not predictable, making it
difficult to implement the program and maintain standards, particularly in the area of supervision of
subprojects. This also led to slower than usual implementation and disbursement, although the demand for
subproject financing continued to be higher than could be supplied. As a result, the Government requested
several extensions of the project's closing date to allow the project to disburse the total amount.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Continuing high levels of competence and commitment within the PIU were main factors behind the
successful implementation record of the TRABAJAR program. Staff continuity also contributed to good
results, although staff turnover in the provinces did cause minor disruptions. Supervision reports indicate
that the project performed satisfactorily throughout the implementation phase.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Cost changes in the project were not significant. Disbursements were slower than anticipated and spread
over 4 years instead of the 2 envisioned during project planning. The Government reallocated funds several
times away from materials financing to payments to beneficiaries, to be able to meet demand and increase
coverage, especially during the crisis. At closing the project had disbursed 100 percent of the proceeds of
the $284 million loan.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The funding for the TRABAJAR program by the World Bank represented a decision to finance a
temporary program that would be phased out gradually as the increased flexibility of the labor market,
together with economic growth raised the rate of job creation in the Argentine economy and unemployment
decreased. At the time the project was approved it was recognized that the future scale and operation of the
TRABAJAR program would depend on the level of unemployment and other economic conditions in
Argentina. Given its demonstrated success in targeting poor workers and in financing small infrastructure
projects, TRABAJAR (or similar programs) could reasonably be expected to remain a part of the social
safety net in Argentina, to be used flexibly for some population groups depending on economic and social
conditions. In late 2001 and early 2002, social and economic conditions deteriorated sharply in Argentina.
The Government quickly put into place a large-scale workfare program known as Heads of Household,
which is similar in some respects to the TRABAJAR Program (see below).

The sustainability of the sub-projects financed under TRABAJAR was expected to be high given the high
share of financing by local governments and the fact that many sub-projects involved remodeling,
refurbishment, or expansion of existing facilities. The results of the ex-post evaluation of a sample of
projects demonstrated that these expectations were in most cases born out in practice.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Although TRABAJAR will not continue in its original form, the Government of Argentina has designed a
similar project based on the experience of the TRABAJAR program. In response to the social and



                                                      - 10 -

economic emergency, the Government's strategy was to expand financial support to families in danger of
economic deprivation, through the newly created and financed Heads of Household Program. This
program has as its base the previous TRABAJAR program, although it has been modified, largely to
respond better to the deepening crisis. The similarities include: (1) requirement to work at a wage rate
expected to be self-targeted to the poor; and (2) impact evaluation using household surveys to test for
performance in targeting and other areas. The differences include: (1) guaranteed access to all eligible
heads of household willing to fulfill the work requirement; (2) an expanded menu of eligible activities that
includes services and other typologies with high labor intensity; (3) supervision at the local level on a
sample, not the totality, of projects, and (4) more local involvement in selection of activities and registration
of beneficiaries. The program expanded quickly, in part due to the previous experience with TRABAJAR.
Since its announcement in April 2002, the program has expanded to cover about 2 million beneficiaries in
April 2003.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. In the opinion of the Borrower, the Bank team's assistance during preparation and appraisal
was very helpful. In interviews, the Borrower expressed appreciation for the expertise and technical
assistance given by the Bank. They stated that they felt part of a team, which was crucial for the
preparation of the project. Social Protection III was prepared, approved and became effective within a
short time. Project design started in November 1997 (identification), appraisal took place in April and
negotiations in May 1998. The Board approved the project on June 30, 1998. The Government signed the
Loan Agreement on October 20 and it became effective November 3, 1998 (about 4 months after Board
approval). There were no significant lags up to effectiveness, relative to the schedule set out in the Project
Appraisal Document.

The main priorities during the design of TRABAJAR III were to ensure good targeting to poor workers, the
allocation of resources within provinces to favor poor areas, and to increase the benefits of the works in the
community, all relative to TRABAJAR II. The most important input for project preparation was the
impact evaluation of Social Protection II (TRABAJAR II), recommended and financed by the previous
loan. In addition, a review of a sample of projects financed under TRABAJAR II was carried out and its
conclusions and recommendations were an important input into the design of the project. A joint
Bank-Ministry of Labor team analyzed the results of both evaluations. The Borrower indicated that the
participation of the Bank's team was very important and its technical assistance crucial to the evaluations.
The main design changes that were implemented in the project, drawing on these studies, consisted of: (i)
the introduction of procedures aimed at improving the impact of community works, including changes in
evaluation criteria, ranking of projects, consideration of prior performance of implementing agency; (ii)
increased support (technical assistance) to municipalities in preparing projects; (iii) improved evaluation
and supervision instruments; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of the PIU (UNEC). The Borrower also
found useful the social evaluation carried out during project preparation, which included consultations with
key stakeholders, particularly municipal officials and NGO's.

It is important to mention that as result of the floods in the northeast region, which occurred shortly before
negotiations, at the Borrower's request, the Bank increased the loan amount by $42 million, from $242
million to $284 million, and the amount of financing available for materials from $9 to $30 million.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Supervision missions were scheduled every four to six months to ensure that the program
was on track and that targeting performance and the quality of the projects financed was adequate. The


                                                      - 11 -

Borrower mentioned that the close monitoring of the program by the Bank was very useful, and mentioned
specifically activities such as participation in the meetings of the URAT (Unidad Regional de Aprobación
Técnica) and field visits to projects and Regional Units (Gerencias). In addition, the Borrower emphasized
the Bank's rapid and adequate responsiveness during the emergency period, beginning at the end of 2001
and first semester of 2002, when the project experienced implementation difficulties as a consequence of
the financial system constraints and the fiscal and debt crisis.

Aside from the generally excellent opinion about the Bank's technical and managerial performance, the
Borrower pointed out two specific cases in which they were unsatisfied with the Bank's response. The first
related to a requested audit of the payments system after a new payment system was implemented which
made more use of the banking system instead of the post office. An audit of the new system was required
by the Bank's Financial Management Specialist. However, the Bank's response to the Terms of Reference
presented by the Ministry for the bidding process to contract a private firm competitively took six months
to process. When the Bank finally answered, it added the requirement of a private audit for the entire
project, expanding the scope beyond what had been originally agreed. Finally, it was agreed to do the
payment systems audit in the framework of the normal audit of financial statements by AGN, after nine
months of delay. The Borrower indicated that the responsiveness of the Bank in areas related to financial
management improved significantly in the last year of the project. The second case concerned the Bank's
positive evaluation of the workfare program of the Province of Santa Fe (PASS) carried out in the context
of another Bank loan (Santa Fe Provincial Reform, Ln-4634) and the subsequent pressure by the Bank for
the Ministry of Labor to allow more flexibility for Santa Fe within the context of the TRABAJAR
Program. The Borrower argued that they thought that the PASS was not consistent with the objectives of
TRABAJAR III, because of its less strict work requirement, lower quality of projects and lower benefit
($100 Arg. pesos monthly). In their opinion, all these aspects contributed to a deterioration in the quality
and implementation of TRABAJAR III in this province.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The preparation process was efficient and,
according to the Borrower, added value in important areas to the re-design of the TRABAJAR Program.
The inputs needed were either done as a part of the previous project or were arranged to be carried out in a
timely fashion so that their results were available early enough to be considered in the process. The Bank
team incorporated the needed technical skills. Just before negotiations took place, the Bank denied the
Government's request for the loan to include financing for a pilot phase of a subsidy for private
employment. The Ministry of Labor was successful in convincing the Bank to permit loan funds be
allocated to undertake an evaluation of the scheme, and to provide technical assistance.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance can be rated as highly satisfactory during preparation.
Changes were made in the operational manual and other instruments needed for the project in an efficient
and timely fashion. The Borrower was able to identify the weaknesses in the previous project and focused
on changes aimed at improving the performance of the Project. Substantial work was required to develop
the component of the project which provided co-financing for the materials cost of projects in poor areas.
The team was high quality and worked effectively.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Government implementation of the project was highly satisfactory up to 2000 when there
was a change in government and a decline in the Borrower's political support for the Program. The
outgoing administration did not include financing for the Program in their proposed budget for 2000,



                                                      - 12 -

although they had authorized commitments that generated spending obligations in that year. Although
funding was restored by the new government, implementation - both the pace of disbursements and quality -
started to deteriorate, due to the fiscal crisis and the lack of a clear employment strategy. The new
administration saw TRABAJAR as a trademark of the former government. Progressively a smaller share
of projects were able to be financed even though they had received a positive technical evaluation.
Uncertainty and declining resources made it difficult to plan technical assistance, maintain the capacity and
quality of the PIU and the Ministry of Labor provincial offices, or to maintain supervision standards. The
Ministry of Labor started new employment programs, reducing the role of TRABAJAR within the
Ministry. Coordination with other workfare programs financed and run by provinces or municipalities also
became more of a problem.

During 1999, $116 million, 40 percent of the Bank loan, was disbursed. In 2000, only $90 million was
drawn from the Bank loan, due to a reduction in the budget for the Program, and the amount of
disbursements declined by about half in 2001. This implied a lower level of approvals (a monthly average
of 9,000 workfare participants in 2000 and 7,500 in 2001, compared to 14,000 in 1999). The coverage of
its target population reached an average of only 6% in 1999 and fell to 3% in 2000, compared to a level of
nearly 10% under the previous project. In addition to difficulties caused by the budgetary constraint, the
Ministry of Labor had to negotiate each quarter with the Ministry of Economy to maintain the budget
"quota". This implied a lot of effort and continued uncertainty about resource availability. Demand for the
Program continued to be high. The share of viable projects (those which had received a positive technical
evaluation) financed declined from 70 percent in 1999 to 50 percent in 2000.

Even though the new administration did not eliminate the program, it responded to the worsening social
situation with other programs, crowding out TRABAJAR and reducing its quality. Nevertheless,
throughout project execution, guidelines in the operational manual were generally respected. For example,
there were only a few substantial deviations from the agreed formula to allocate resources from the Project
to provinces according to the distribution of poor, unemployed, and these did not represent a significant
share of resources. Only 3 provinces (Jujuy, La Pampa and Neuquen) received a significantly higher share
of project resources than their formula would have given. On the other hand, the province of Buenos Aires
(including the urban areas surrounding the capital), received slightly less than the formula dictated.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The PIU in the Ministry of Labor was dedicated, experienced and capable. They provided
technical assistance to executing organizations (provinces, municipalities, NGOs); updated operational
manuals; communicated well with provincial officials; and monitored the project carefully. It was also
quick to take adaptive actions, to follow up closely the Bank's recommendations made in supervision
missions and to take the initiative to make needed changes during implementation. Compliance with the
Operational Manual was in general carefully monitored. The diffusion of various materials, such as forms,
guidelines, etc was done transparently. At the beginning of the project, the PIU was scaled up particularly
on evaluation and monitoring capacity (for example, to support the materials component and regional
technical assistance). In 1999, the process of project evaluation and selection worked well, improving
compared with TRABAJAR II. The PIU technical evaluation was based on clear criteria, the process was
coordinated with regional units and provincial directors and the six regional project approval groups
functioned properly. In 2000, an important decision was taken by the Ministry of Labor to base the
allocation of funds among provinces on spending in all national workfare programs, which included PEL (
Plan de Emergencia Laboral) and "Crear Trabajo" (productive projects) . This probably accounted in
some part for the deviations mentioned above in the use of the allocation criteria for some provinces.
Funds were increasingly allocated to respond to specific local situations or based on political negotiations
with "piqueteros" groups, particularly in the second semester of 2001. In addition, the Ministry of Labor



                                                       - 13 -

began to give the highest priority to ensuring that beneficiaries received payments, regardless of the quality
of the work activities, and weakened the Program's supervision and monitoring activities.

Beginning in 2000, human resource capacity in some key areas started to deteriorate. In May 2000, the PIU
had to cut salaries and lay off staff, in the context of general cuts within the public sector. This measure
fundamentally affected the area of evaluation, which disappeared, and the regional units. Moreover, the
effect was even worse since the PIU was in charge of the financial administration and the monitoring of all
programs at Ministry of Labor. The area of monitoring was finally closed in mid 2002.

The Borrower's inter­agency relationships were satisfactory, particularly with the Chief of Cabinet's
office. This office proposed to do an "external" evaluation of the program, with the objective to improve
the next stage in the program, but was not able to follow up on the idea.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This included a period at the beginning of the
project of highly satisfactory performance. Beginning in 2000, the interest and financing of the Program
began to decline, although local demand remained high. In fact, in view of the worsening economic and
financial crisis, TRABAJAR III should have been increasing, not decreasing its role, were it to carry out
its intended counter-cyclical role as a safety net. The Government that took office in late 1999 did not fully
embrace the TRABAJAR Program. Neither did they develop an alternate design or strategy.

8. Lessons Learned

The key lessons learned and recommendations are as follows:

l Self-targeted public works programs can effectively direct the majority of cash transfers to the poor,
     provided the wage rate is set no higher than the ruling market wage for unskilled labor. Setting the
     wage rate at this level also minimizes perverse incentives by ensuring that the program does not attract
     employed individuals.

l Close monitoring is necessary during project execution to ensure that the targeting is working
     effectively and to be able to identify problems in the project cycle or poor performance in some
     localities.

l The cost effectiveness of workfare programs like TRABAJAR depends in large part on the value of the
     assets created through the subprojects. Effective subproject evaluation, monitoring and supervision are
     critical to ensuring that the subprojects produce benefits for poor communities that go beyond
     temporary income transfers to unemployed members. With respect to evaluation, visiting the site of the
     proposed subproject prior to the approval decision is an important instrument to ensure that
     subprojects are appropriate and of high quality. After project approval, effective supervision
     monitoring--including appropriate on-site visits--is essential to ensure the high quality of works and
     their timely completion

l Rigorous, high-quality evaluations can be successfully carried out with government counterparts at a
     reasonable cost, if use can be made of existing survey instruments, and can be effective in building
     capacity.

l Governments may not make use of effective counter-cyclical instruments because of a preference for
     financing other programs or because of extremely tight fiscal constraints. It is recommended to raise



                                                      - 14 -

    this issue at higher levels, for example the Ministry of Economy and Production, to ensure
    consideration of this issue at the highest levels. The issue should also be raised as part of the overall
    country dialogue.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 13.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of workers hired                     464,102 workers hired                      464,102 workers hired
Payments made to beneficiaries              $400 billion Arg. pesos                    $400,808,280 Arg. pesos
Share of projects which have been completed 26,000 subprojects financed: 72% completed 26,453 subprojects financed: 72% completed
sactisfactorily.                            satsifactorily                             satsifactorily




                                                               - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
TRABAJAR Sub Projects                                     1050.00          1265.00             120
Project Administration                                      25.00           25.00              100
Project Monitoring and Evaluation                            2.00             2.00             100

Total Baseline Cost                                       1077.00          1292.00
                        Total Project Costs               1077.00          1292.00
                  Total Financing Required                1077.00          1292.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         720.00        720.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.50         0.50          0.00          1.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.50)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (1.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        11.00          10.00        21.00
(Consultancy Services- 11         (0.00)           (0.00)      (11.00)         (0.00)       (11.00)
and Financial Services- 10)
4. Remuneration for               0.00              0.00       300.00          0.00         300.00
Temporary/Fixed Term
Staff (TRABAJAR Program)
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)     (242.00)         (0.00)      (242.00)
5. Materials for Selected         0.00              0.00        30.00          0.00         30.00
TRABAJAR Sub projects-            (0.00)           (0.00)      (30.00)         (0.00)       (30.00)
Goods
6. Project Administration         0.00              0.00         0.00          5.00          5.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.50       341.50         735.00       1077.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.50)     (283.50)         (0.00)      (284.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00         900.00        900.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00        11.80          10.00        21.80
(Consultancy Services- 11         (0.00)          (0.00)      (11.80)         (0.00)       (11.80)


                                                - 17 -

  and Financial Services- 10)
  4. Remuneration for                      0.00               0.00            362.00             0.00             362.00
  Temporary/Fixed Term
  Staff (TRABAJAR Program)
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)          (269.10)            (0.00)          (269.10)
  5. Materials for Selected                0.00               0.00              3.10             0.00              3.10
  TRABAJAR Sub projects-                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.10)            (0.00)           (3.10)
  Goods
  6. Project Administration                0.00               0.00              0.00             5.00              5.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00            376.90            915.00           1291.90
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)          (284.00)            (0.00)          (284.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
TRABAJAR Sub projects         272.00       778.00                   272.00       993.00                 100.0    127.6
Project Administration        10.00        15.00                    10.00         15.00                 100.0    100.0
Project Monitoring and         2.00                                  2.00                               100.0
Evaluation




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/24/1996                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             EVALUATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/27/1998                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST/TARGETING
                                             (1);
                                             ENVIRON.EVAL/COSTIN
                                             G (1); ENGINEER (2);
                                             EVALUATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/08/1998                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST/TARGETING (1);
                                             ENVIRON.EVAL/COSTING
                                             (1); ENGINEER (2);
                                             EVALUATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              11/20/1998                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ECONOMIST/TARGETING (1);
                                             ENVIRON.EVAL/COSTING
                                             (1); ENGINEER (2)
              06/03/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ENVIRON.EVAL/COSTING
                                             (1); ECONOMIST/TARGETING
                                             (1); ENGINEER (2)
              12/17/1999                4    ECONOMIST (1);                   S               S
                                             ECONOMIST, EVALUATION
                                             (2); ENGINEER (1)
              06/09/2000                3    TASK MANAGER (1); CIVIL          S               S
                                             ENGINEER (2)
              10/13/2000                2    SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);           S               S
                                             EVALUATION (1)
              06/01/2001                                                      S               S
              12/19/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)

 ICR
              11/01/2002                3     TASK MANAGER (1);               S               S
                                              ENGINEER (1); SOCIAL
                                              SCIENTIST (1)




                                              - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               18                       67,758
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    12                       33,373
  Supervision                              34                      144,477
  ICR                                       7                       29,343
  Total                                    71                      274,951




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Social Assessment by Maria Elina Estébanez and Patricia Feliu. May 1998.

2. Institutional Financial Management Assessment by Jose Maria Giordano. May 1998.

3. Ex-post evaluation of projects financed by TRABAJAR II. April 1998.

4. Income Gains to the Poor from Workfare: Estimates for Argentina's Trabajar Program by Jyotsna Jalan
and Martin Ravallion, 1999, Policy Research    Working Paper #2149.

5. Do Workfare Participants Recover Quickly from Retrenchment? By Martin Ravallion, Emanuela
Galasso, Teodoro Lazo, and Ernesto Philipp. September 2001, Policy Research Working Paper #2672.

6. Ex-post evaluation of subprojects financed by TRABAJAR III by Maria Claudia Vasquez. February
2002.

7. Assisting the Transition from Workfare to Work: A Randomized Experiment by Emanuela Galasso,
Martin Ravallion and Agustin Salvia. December 2001, Policy Research Working Paper #2738.

8. Estimating the Benefit Incidence of an Antipoverty Program by Propensity Score Matching by Jyotsna
Jalan and Martin Ravallion. 2001.

9. Performance in Reaching Argentina's Poor as Workers by Martin Ravallion. Input to the supervision
mission, October 2000.




                                                 - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Type of Subprojects Approved

    Type of Subproject                                      Total Number         Percentage
    Drainage & Sewerage                                         6,739               25.4%
    Urban roads                                                 6,144               23.2%
    Housing                                                     2,809               11%
    Secondary Roads                                             1,779               7%
    Educational infrastructure                                  1,659               6.2%
   Cultural/community infrastructure                            1,471               5.5%
   Community gardens                                            1,368                5%
    Potable Water                                               1,257               4.7%
    Other types                                                 3,227               12%
    TOTAL                                                       26,453             100%

  Source: Table 6.1 from the Monitoring Indicators produced by UNEC for the Third TRABJAR program.




                                                  - 25 -

  Additional Annex 9. Subproject Completion Rates by Province and Type

         SUBPROJECT COMPLETION RATES BY PROVINCE AND SUBPROJECT TYPE
                                           As of September 2001

Province     Health Social Housing/ Development Envir. Others Community                    W/out Total
             Infra.  Infra. gas/elect. Infra.                                  development Info
Capital      77.8    79.3       50           75              -          -      75          -     74.6
Federal
Partidos del 75.2    68         73.1         64.1            66.7       89.1   98.8        100   70.9
Conurbano
Buenos       76.3    63.5       52.7         63.8            78.2       90.4   100         80    67.4
Aires
Catamarca    92.6    70.5       92.2         90.8            -          100    -           -     86.6
Chaco        56.6    56.7       71.2         64.1            66.7       88.7   100         -     64.6
Chubut       91.2    73.1       75           77.1            93.8       96.9   100         100   82.4
Cordoba      66      62.9       67.5         70.5            100        87.1   100         50    69.7
Corrientes   74.5    65.8       58.2         70.6            50         96.6   -           100   69.1
Entre Rios   85.4    87.8       79.5         76.7            100        88.9   100         100   83.1
Formosa      60      70.1       65.4         63.7            100        97.1   100         100   68.6
Jujuy        72.7    65         50           72              92.9       79.2   100         75    70.9
La Pampa     91      79.3       80.4         86.5            100        95.1   -           -     86.6
La Rioja     80      67.4       69.7         66.7            100        100    100         -     74.6
Mendoza      91.4    78.9       81.1         89.9            91.7       100    100         -     88.3
Misiones     59.6    62         80.2         50.8            66.7       100    -           75    61.6
Neuquén      75      62.2       52.2         53.4            90         69.8   -           50    58.4
Rio Negro    70.7    59.4       70.4         67.8            84.2       87.5   100         -     68.9
Rosario      79.3    54         64.7         63.5            80         93.5   100         50    63.4
Salta        85.7    74.1       78.3         88.9            100        100    91.7        -     86.5
San Juan     75.3    42         30.2         71.4            100        92.3   100         -     62.7
San Luis     86.9    72.5       66.7         85.1            100        100    100         -     84.2
Santa Cruz   -       47.8       50           61.9            100        100    -           -     56.1
Santa Fe     80.3    73.7       76.8         82.5            100        91.7   -           85.7    80
Santiago del 91.6    95.7       74.3         93.9            100        100    100         100   91.5
Estero
Tierra del   -       41.9       66.7         35.7            100        30     100         -     42.6
Fuego
Tucuman      56.3    55.3       87           65.7            57.1       96.3   100         -       65
TOTAL/       75.4    66.5       68.3         69.3            84.5       91.6   98.8        78.7  72.1
AVERAGE

            Source: Monitoring Indicators produced by UNEC for the Third TRABJAR program.




                                                   - 26 -

Additional Annex 10. Poor Area Targeting Performance

                                               Targeting Differential                 Budget-neutral targeting
                                            across 510 departments ($                 differential ($ per person
                                            per person per 5 months)                        per 5 months)

TRABAJAR II            5/1997-9/1997                        71.6                                   27.4
                     10/1997-2/1998                         15.3                                   14.5
                       3/1998-7/1998                        22.9                                   18.3

TRABAJAR III         8/1998-12/1998                         24.3                                  22.6
                     1/1999-6/1999*                         23.4                                  24.9
                     7/1999-11/1999                         23.9                                  23.9
                     12/1999-4/2000                         5.0                                   17.1
                       5/2000-9/2000                        7.6                                   20.6


     Note: Budget-neutral targeting differential is calculated by fixing the rate of spending at the level in
    7/1999-11/1999 but using the actual spending shares across departments. * is the 5 month equivalent.

 Source: Performance in Reaching Argentina's Poor as Workers by Martin Ravallion. Input to the supervision
                                           mission, October 2000.




                                                     - 27 -

Additional Annex 11. Targeting Performance by Five Month Intervals, TRABAJAR II and
III

                 Targeting Differential ($ per
                 person per 5 months)

   Province      Trabajar II                            Trabajar III
                 II.1            II.2       II.3        III.1            III.2    III.3       III.4      III.5
                 5/1997-         10/1997- 3/1998-       8/1998-          1/1999- 7/1999-      12/1999-   5/2000-
                 9/1997          2/1998     7/1998      12/1998          6/1999   11/1999 4/2000         9/2000
                                                                         (5 mth
                                                                         equiv.)
   Buenos Aires       -2.8        -15.4*       -7.8           1.6         -3.8       -5.5         0.0      -3.1
   Catamarca          33.9         11.6        30.7         51.4*         85.1*    84.2*         27.1*    24.1*
   Chaco              19.3          2.7        18.2          11.3          0.3       8.6          1.0      -2.0
   Chubut             33.1         45.4        18.2         55.8*         34.2*      2.5          0.7      10.3
   Cordoba          143.5*        96.9*      159.3*         187.2*       113.3*    167.4*        14.1*    19.6*
   Corrientes        67.6*         -0.3        4.8          20.4*         21.2*    34.4*          6.2*     3.7
   Entre Rios         31.2         -0.6        26.0          22.8         -4.3      16.5          7.2*     -3.7
   Formosa            7.9         18.5*        6.7            6.1          9.4      13.7          12.0     5.0
   Jujuy             93.2*         27.1        34.2         128.6*        46.9*     37.4          2.0      15.7
   La Pampa          27.8*        17.5*        -6.0           3.3         -4.5       0.1          -0.8     4.2
   La Rioja           -7.5         -1.3        22.4           -1.1        11.2       0.1          0.0      2.1
   Mendoza           64.0*          4.4       43.5*         35.3*         13.5     19.2*          3.7      3.2
   Misiones          -14.2         -8.8        -8.5           0.6          8.8       9.5          4.7      -1.2
   Neuquén            -4.3        -11.4        12.6          -23.8        -13.6      -7.9         -5.6     2.2
   Rio Negro         60.1*         25.1      103.2*         28.1*         69.9*    27.6*          0.4      5.5
   Salta             94.4*        39.5*       76.6*         49.6*         81.4*    62.3*          16.0    23.7*
   San Juan          92.0*        63.1*       45.7*         35.5*         49.7*     17.0         17.0*     -1.5
   San Luis           78.5          3.1       31.2*         29.6*         29.3*    50.8*         15.0*     10.8
   Santa Cruz         39.3        -23.3        8.3            3.6         24.0       4.1          11.0    23.5*
   Santa Fe          56.7*        25.7*        19.9           8.1         -3.1       3.8          -0.6     0.8
   Santiago del      88.3*         -6.6        3.8            9.2         18.4*     22.1          -2.0     0.5
   Estero
   Tucuman          112.2*        38.6*       47.1*         27.8*         26.3*     25.3         15.5*    14.7*
   All
   Departments       71.6*        15.3*       22.9*         24.3*         23.4*    23.9*          5.0*     7.6*

          Source: Performance in Reaching Argentina's Poor as Workers by Martin Ravallion. Input to the
                                   supervision mission, October 2000.




                                                 - 28 -

Additional Annex 12. Program Spending by Five Month Intervals, TRABAJAR II and III

                 Program Disbursements ($ per
                 person per 5 months)

 Province        Trabajar II                            Trabajar III
                 II.1            II.2        II.3       III.1           III.2      III.3        III.4      III.5
                 5/1997-         10/1997- 3/1998-       8/1998-         1/1999- 7/1999-         12/1999-   5/2000-
                 9/1997          2/1998      7/1998     12/1998         6/1999     11/1999 4/2000          9/2000
                                                                        (5 mth
                                                                        equiv.)
 Buenos Aires         1.09         0.92        1.51          1.23         1.57       1.42          0.44      0.59
 Catamarca           14.24         3.76        4.06          3.42         3.96       3.28          0.94      1.70
 Chaco               17.79         5.16        7.09          6.88         4.02       5.06          1.75      1.57
 Chubut               5.67         2.69        4.83          3.32         2.18       2.40          0.48      0.96
 Cordoba              4.44         2.82        2.38          2.12         1.77       2.55          0.66      0.78
 Corrientes          14.81         2.30        3.38          4.74         2.73       3.83          0.80      0.96
 Entre Rios           7.43         4.13        3.92          4.38         2.46       2.28          0.82      0.88
 Formosa             13.36         4.19        5.22          4.86         4.23       3.86          1.44      1.30
 Jujuy               18.96         5.20        6.58          9.41         4.46       4.46          2.10      1.63
 La Pampa             8.54         4.20        6.20          5.60         4.30       4.20          0.59      0.82
 La Rioja            15.13         2.55        4.00          3.06         2.61       2.59          0.76      0.86
 Mendoza              5.89         1.56        2.23          1.72         1.10       1.68          0.42      0.46
 Misiones            12.05         6.07        5.56          4.93         3.83       4.92          1.05      1.58
 Neuquén             12.11         5.83        7.68          6.07         3.54       3.37          1.30      1.16
 Rio Negro            8.90         4.58        5.51          4.13         3.85       3.53          0.93      1.23
 Salta               13.07         3.78        4.55          2.52         3.51       2.51          1.18      1.98
 San Juan             8.92         3.35        2.79          1.86         2.91       1.83          0.55      0.81
 San Luis            16.66         2.47        3.53          2.78         2.30       3.08          0.83      1.14
 Santa Cruz           5.69         2.87        4.05          0.42         2.62       0.37          0.78      0.72
 Santa Fe             7.95         4.46        4.01          3.06         2.36       3.14          0.76      1.06
 Santiago del        21.38         4.07        3.96          3.87         4.18       5.71          1.10      1.90
 Estero
 Tucuman             13.65         4.58        5.46          4.12         4.00       3.77          0.99      1.35
 All
 Departments          6.37         2.58        3.05          2.62         2.29       2.44          0.71      0.90

 Source: Performance in Reaching Argentina's Poor as Workers by Martin Ravallion. Input to the supervision
                                        mission, October 2000.




                                                 - 29 -

Additional Annex 13. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR


                                         INFORME DE CIERRE

                             CONVENIO DE PRESTAMO BIRF 4366-AR
                         Tercer Proyecto de Protección Social - TRABAJAR III

 1.    Marco General de acción de la Secretaría de Empleo y Capacitación Laboral del MTEyFRH


 Durante los últimos años de la década del 90, se profundizó en Argentina el proceso de ajuste
 estructural, observándose un escenario altamente recesivo en la economía nacional. Esta situación se
 reflejó en el mercado de trabajo, marcando una tendencia creciente de la exclusión y precarización. A
 partir del aumento de los niveles de desempleo, subempleo y precarización laboral. Una de las
 consecuencias de esta situación fue le proceso de empobrecimiento de un número importante de hogares,
 que se vieron afectados en forma paulatina y creciente por la caída o pérdida de los ingresos.

 Numerosos estudios muestran que el incremento de la desocupación y el subempleo, así como las
 situaciones de precariedad laboral han incidido fuertemente en la situación de los hogares,
 incrementando los niveles de pobreza e indigencia. La escasa cobertura de las políticas de protección
 social, en particular aquellas vinculadas al seguro por desempleo, motivaron la necesidad de definir
 políticas emergentes, así como profundizar la cobertura y mejorar la focalización de aquellas existentes
 para atender esta coyuntura.

 Algunos indicadores de la situación social grafican las tendencias de los últimos años, registrando el
 crecimiento de las tasas de desempleo, subempleo, pobreza e indigencia en personas y hogares. (cuadro1
 y 2)

 Indicadores de Situación social

 Cuadro 1: Evolución tasa de actividad, empleo desocupación y subocupación
 Total de Aglomerados urbanos - Período 1997 - 2001



 Año                  Actividad            Empleo           Desocupación        Subocupación
 Oct.97                  42.3                35.3               13.7                 13.1
 Oct.98                  42.1                36.9               12.4                 13.6
 Oct.99                  42.7                36.8               13.8                 14.3
 Oct.00                  42.7                36.5               14.7                 14.6
 Oct.01                  42.2                34.5               18.3                 16.3




                                                   - 30 -

Cuadro 2:
Evolución de la Indigencia, la pobreza y la desocupación en GBA. Período 1997 a 2001

Período           Hogares                       Personas                         Tasa de
                                                                              desocupación
                 Bajo línea     Bajo línea     Bajo línea     Bajo línea
                     de         de pobreza          de       de pobreza
                 Indigencia                    Indigencia
   Oct.97            5               19            6.4            26               14.3
   Oct-98            4.5            18.2            6.9           25.9             13.3
   Oct-99            4.8            18.9           6.7            26.7             14.4
   Oct-00            5.6            20.8           7.7            28.9             14.7
   Oct-01            8.3            25.5           12.2           35.4             19.0

El Gobierno Nacional profundizó las modalidades de intervención a través de los programas sociales
focalizados para atender a los sectores más vulnerables, afectados tanto por su situación de pobreza
como por sus posibilidades de acceso al mercado laboral.

En tal sentido, las políticas socio-laborales se incorporan a las políticas sociales nacionales como parte
de los programas focalizados que atienden, a través de acciones de capacitación y fomento del empleo, a
los trabajadores desocupados en situación de pobreza.



1.1 Políticas de Empleo y Capacitación Laboral del MTSS

A partir de los años 80 a nivel mundial, y en la Argentina en fecha mucho más reciente, empezó a
hacerse evidente que dos elementos que parecían indisolublemente vinculados - el empleo y el
crecimiento económico - comenzaban a tomar distancia. Es posible comprobar que en los países más
desarrollados, la recuperación y el crecimiento de la economía no redundó en la misma proporción en la
creación de puestos de trabajo, constituyendo el desempleo una preocupación importante de los
gobiernos.

Para tratar de contrarrestar estos efectos, en muchos países se inició el desarrollo de políticas de empleo,
un conjunto de acciones destinadas, en algunos casos, a potenciar o atenuar los impactos de las políticas
de crecimiento económico sobre el empleo: promoviendo la creación de empleo, favoreciendo las
políticas de reconversión y recalificación de la fuerza de trabajo o atenuando los procesos de
reestructuración que impactaban sobre la reorganización del trabajo y la destrucción de empleos.

A partir de los años 90, la República Argentina, afectada por procesos similares, atacó la respuesta a
los cambios en el mercado de trabajo definiendo un nuevo marco regulatorio para las relaciones
laborales. La primera expresión de esta definición política fue la Ley Nacional de Empleo (Nº 24.013).
Esta incluye un conjunto de acciones, medidas e incentivos que favorecen bajo distintas formas la
promoción y mantenimiento del empleo, al mismo tiempo que prevé mecanismos de financiamiento para
impulsar políticas activas y pasivas de empleo (Fondo Nacional de Empleo).

El Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social comienza a desarrollar programas de empleo orientados a
fomentar oportunidades para los grupos con mayores dificultades en el ingreso y permanencia en el
mercado de trabajo y reducir el impacto de la caída del nivel de ingresos por pérdida del empleo.



                                                   - 31 -

Desde el año 1993 se llevan a cabo programas de empleo directo, que operan a través del financiamiento
de mano de obra para el desarrollo de actividades de interés comunitario. Están destinados a aquellos
trabajadores con mayores dificultades laborales y sociales y su objetivo es brindar ocupación transitoria
a trabajadores desocupados. El primer antecedente de estos programas fue el Programa Intensivo de
Trabajo (PIT), con una cobertura de casi 70.000 beneficiarios/as anuales.

Los programas de empleo directo han evolucionado como resultado de las sucesivas evaluaciones y
mediciones; mejorando sus criterios de focalización y cobertura. En este sentido, con la colaboración
financiera y técnica de los organismos de crédito externo se ha logrado mejorar su cobertura y alcance.
El Programa TRABAJAR II constituyó una primera etapa en este sentido. Con el apoyo del Banco
Mundial ­ Préstamo BIRF N° 4195 -AR alcanzó mejores niveles de focalización y cobertura territorial.
Durante el desarrollo del Programa, entre los años 1997/1998 se incorporaron 400.189 beneficiarios que
se desempeñaron en algo más de 16.000 proyectos de construcción, ampliación y rehabilitación de
infraestructura social comunitaria, destinada a poblaciones de bajos recursos. Para la ejecución de estos
proyectos se comprometieron aproximadamente 383 millones de pesos destinados al pago de las ayudas
económicas no remunerativas mensuales a los beneficiarios del Programa.

Para superar la transitoriedad del impacto se dio prioridad a la realización de proyectos de obras y
servicios. Estas acciones contribuyeron a atenuar el impacto de la pobreza, en particular en las áreas
urbanas abordando su atención desde una doble dimensión: a través de la transferencia de ingresos a los
hogares más pobres y generando infraestructura social, comunitario y de desarrollo con alto impacto en
las condiciones de vida de los grupo de población en situación de mayor vulnerabilidad.

En síntesis, el desarrollo de estos programas permitió al Ministerio de Trabajo acumular experiencia,
diseñar e implementar instrumentos metodológicos para el monitoreo y la gestión que aseguran que los
beneficios alcancen a los trabajadores desocupados en situación mas vulnerable tanto por el nivel de sus
calificaciones, así como por las condiciones de pobreza de los hogares a los cuales pertenecen.

2. Convenio de Préstamo N° 4366/ARG

2.1 El Programa TRABAJAR III

El Programa TRABAJAR III, forma parte de las políticas de empleo, en particular los programas de
empleo directo. Se instala como una segunda etapa del Programa TRABAJAR, ejecutado durante
1997/98 financiado por el Banco Mundial en el marco del Segundo Proyecto de Protección Social.
TRABAJAR III fue creado por la Resolución M.T. y S.S. Nº 327/98 y reglamentado por la Resolución
S.E.C.L.Nº397/98, ejecutado bajo la responsabilidad institucional del Ministerio de Trabajo y
Seguridad Social.

El Programa TRABAJAR III se orientó a atender las situaciones de emergencia ocupacional,
contribuyendo a disminuir el impacto provocado por la pérdida de ingresos como consecuencia del
desempleo abierto. El Programa brindaba ocupación transitoria a trabajadores/as desocupados/as que no
percibían prestaciones por desempleo ni participaban en otros programas de empleo o capacitación
laboral.

Como resultado de las evaluaciones del Programa TRABAJAR II se realizaron ajustes de diseño y
procedimientos con la finalidad de asegurar el cumplimiento de los objetivos del Programa. El ajuste del
diseño se orientó en dos perspectivas: por una parte, asegurar la focalización hacia los hogares más


                                                 - 32 -

pobres y por otra fortalecer la pertinencia y calidad de los proyectos financiados, garantizando el
impacto sobre la población más vulnerable.



2.2. Objetivos del Programa

El Programa constituyó un instrumento de financiamiento de mano de obra para la realización de
proyectos comunitarios destinados a la realización de obras de infraestructura social y económica. Los
mismos se orientaron a satisfacer necesidades socialmente relevantes de la población con menores
recursos. Constituyeron una respuesta comunitaria a las necesidades locales, vinculando las demandas
de la población con los recursos disponibles tanto a nivel territorial como los provenientes de otros
programas. Al mismo tiempo, se promovió la articulación y complementación de las políticas de
emergencia de empleo - financiadoras de mano de obra - con otras líneas o programas sociales que
proveen recursos para asistencia técnica y/o insumos para realizar obras de infraestructura.

Los proyectos aprobados en el marco de TRABAJAR III se proponían:

1.- Constituir un mecanismo ágil y flexible de financiamiento de mano de obra en proyectos que surjan
de demandas prioritarias de la población, en localidades y barrios en situación de pobreza y para grupos
vulnerables, con el objeto de mejorar las condiciones de vida.

2.- Incorporar trabajadores/as desocupados/as con baja calificación que residan en la localidad de
ejecución de la obra. promoviendo la realización de actividades mano de obra intensivas.

3.- Dar respuesta a demandas y necesidades prioritarias en materia de infraestructura social y
comunitaria.

4.- Facilitar el acceso a otros Programas Sociales (Nacionales y/o Provinciales) destinados a la
superación de la pobreza que aseguren el cofinanciamiento de los proyectos previstos en este Programa.


El Programa promovió la participación de instancias organizativas de carácter regional o local
(organizaciones de la sociedad civil). La presencia y el compromiso de este tipo organizaciones
intermedias con reconocimiento en la localidad aseguraba un importante nivel de control social y,
simultáneamente, aportaba competencias para la definición de proyectos emergentes del diagnóstico de
las necesidades sociales prioritarias.

A los efectos de realizar proyectos con mayor impacto social, asegurando la focalización en las áreas
más pobres, el Programa aportó recursos para financiar los materiales para la ejecución de obras de
infraestructura Dichos proyectos estaban destinados a atender las necesidades prioritarias de las
poblaciones de menores recursos en las áreas de salud, educación y provisión de agua.

Para atender el logro de este objetivo se definió, en el TRABAJAR III, un componente específico que
apoyó con el financiamiento de los materiales y la mano de obra, a los proyectos realizados en las
pequeñas localidades (de 500 a 50.000 habitantes) con altos porcentajes de población en situación de
pobreza. Este nuevo componente se denominó "TRABAJAR con Materiales". (Los instrumentos
normativos del Componente Materiales son las Res. MTySS N° 156/99 y Res. SEyCL N° 201/99). En
ellos se definen sus características específicas e incluyen el listado de localidades en las cuales pueden
llevarse a cabo proyectos con financiamiento de materiales. Estos recursos están destinados a beneficiar


                                                   - 33 -

a localidades que cuenten con poblaciones con alto índice de pobreza y que no superen los 50.000
habitantes).



2.3 Focalización

El Programa TRABAJAR III se basó en la transferencia de ingreso a los hogares pobres, afectados por
la situación de desempleo. En tal sentido se aplicaron criterios genéricos de focalización que permitían
identificar a los/as trabajadores/as desocupados/as pertenecientes a hogares en situación de pobreza.
Sobre la base del monto de la ayuda económica transferida se autofoaclizaba sobre los hogares pobres,
organizando la distribución de los subsidios en función de la realización de tareas en proyectos.

Por otra parte, a los efectos de establecer un criterio equitativo y transparente de asignación de recursos
por provincia, se definió una distribución porcentual teniendo en cuenta la participación de la población
beneficiaria - trabajadores desocupados en situación de pobreza ­ por jurisdicción:



           Gerencia de empleo       Población Objetivo
                                    v.a.           %
           Buenos Aires(a)          160,734     11.84
           Conurbano                254,566     18.75
          Capital Federal           19,729      1.45
          Catamarca                 17,452      1.29
          Chaco                     68,977      5.08
          Chubut                    13,269      0.98
          Córdoba                   99,331      7.31
          Corrientes                52,746      3.88
          Entre Ríos                45,961      3.38
          Formosa                   35,404      2.61
          Jujuy                     39,742      2.93
          La Pampa                  9,464
                                    0.70
          La Rioja                  12,316      0.91
          Mendoza                   47,561      3.50
          Misiones                  58,568      4.31
          Neuquén                   22,632      1.67
          Río Negro (b)             28,026      2.06
          Salta                     63,285      4.66
          San Juan                  21,139      1.56
          San Luis                  14,361      1.06
          Santa Cruz                2,297
                                    0.17
          Santa Fe (a)              61,402      4.52
          Rosario                   73,610      5.42
          Sgo. del Estero           55,884      4.12
          Tierra del Fuego          1,921



                                                   - 34 -

                                     0.14
           Tucumán                   77,618     5.72
           TOTAL                     1,357,995 100.0

3. Resultados del Programa

En cumplimiento de sus objetivos, el Trabajar III inició su ejecución en agosto de 1998, hasta junio de
2002 ha financiado cerca de 26,500 proyectos por un monto a cargo del Programa de US$383 millones
de dólares. La asignación de los recursos para las diferentes provincias y localidades ha cumplido con
los criterios establecidos en el Manual Operativo, en relación con el porcentaje correspondiente a la
población objetivo por jurisdicción.

Durante el desarrollo del Programa se incorporaron 464.102 beneficiarios que se desempeñaron
proyectos de construcción, ampliación y rehabilitación de infraestructura social comunitaria, destinada a
poblaciones de bajos recursos. Para la ejecución de estos proyectos se comprometieron $ 400.808.280
destinados al pago de las ayudas económicas no remunerativas mensuales a los beneficiarios del
Programa.

Cuadro 1 - Programa TRABAJAR III: Total de proyectos, beneficiarios y monto a cargo del
programa, por gerencia.



                                                                   Total

                                                    Cantidad de Beneficiarios     Monto Total a Cargo del Programa
          GERENCIA          Proyectos aprobados

                             Absoluto    % Col    Absolutos        Porcentaje         Absolutos         Porcentaje
 CAPITAL FEDERAL                    365     1.4%          4,961               1.1%          4,484,440          1.1%
 PARTIDOS DEL CONURBANO           3,127   11.8%          71,254              15.4%         65,870,120         16.4%
 BUENOS AIRES                     2,828   10.7%          49,262              10.6%         44,668,840         11.1%
 CATAMARCA                          527     2.0%          7,213               1.6%          6,025,680          1.5%
 CHACO                            1,239     4.7%         28,517               6.1%         23,507,700          5.9%
 CHUBUT                             464     1.8%          5,348               1.2%          4,875,400          1.2%
 CORDOBA                          2,152     8.1%         31,602               6.8%         29,447,960          7.3%
 CORRIENTES                         833     3.1%         14,701               3.2%         12,025,180          3.0%
 ENTRE RIOS                       1,239     4.7%         19,209               4.1%         16,139,840          4.0%
 FORMOSA                            582     2.2%         10,425               2.2%          9,098,640          2.3%
 JUJUY                            1,340     5.1%         24,540               5.3%         18,377,280          4.6%
 LA PAMPA                           368     1.4%          5,784               1.2%          5,494,880          1.4%
 LA RIOJA                           244     0.9%          3,364               0.7%          3,178,720          0.8%
 MENDOZA                            782     3.0%         12,418               2.7%         10,679,400          2.7%
 MISIONES                         1,185     4.5%         18,287               3.9%         16,370,040          4.1%
 NEUQUEN                            707     2.7%         14,698               3.2%          9,994,720          2.5%
 RIO NEGRO                          907     3.4%         12,011               2.6%         10,075,920          2.5%
 SALTA                            1,283     4.9%         23,953               5.2%         19,365,720          4.8%
 SAN JUAN                           423     1.6%          6,863               1.5%          6,068,040          1.5%
 SAN LUIS                           357     1.3%          3,759               0.8%          3,787,880          0.9%
 SANTA CRUZ                         110     0.4%          1,498               0.3%          1,260,960          0.3%
 SANTA FE                         1,545     5.8%         23,751               5.1%         20,657,520          5.2%
 ROSARIO                          1,824     6.9%         26,618               5.7%         19,979,100          5.0%
 SANTIAGO DEL ESTERO                894     3.4%         19,095               4.1%         15,789,420          3.9%
 TIERRA DEL FUEGO                    87     0.3%            990               0.2%            752,240          0.2%
 TUCUMAN                          1,041     3.9%         23,981               5.2%         22,832,640          5.7%
 Total                           26,453   100.0%       464,102              100.0%       400,808,280         100.0%




La asignación mensual en cada año de ejecución se presenta en el siguiente gráfico. Durante el año 1999



                                                  - 35 -

se presentó la mayor asignación de recursos. De acuerdo con la disponibilidad restante, se distribuyeron
los recursos para los años 2000 y 2001, con el fin de dar continuidad al Programa. Los totales asignados
para cada año fueron: $83.9, $169.3, $82.6 y $47.5 millones, respectivamente. El gráfico que se incluye
a continuación muestra la evolución mensual de asignación de fondos por año durante el período
1998/2002.

La distribución porcentual del número de proyectos y los recursos del Programa según las tipologías de
proyectos de mayor utilización se resumen en el siguiente cuadro:

Si se realiza un análisis de la totalidad de los proyectos realizados por TRABAJAR III según tipología,
se observa que: se ejecutó la mayor cantidad de proyectos en el tipo infraestructura de desarrollo - que
comprende proyectos de vialidad urbana, caminos secundarios, mejoramiento de pequeños proyectos de
riego en áreas pobres y defensas hidráulicas- representando casi el 34% del total. Estos proyectos son
más intensivos en mano de obra y en consecuencia requieren un menor nivel de inversión por parte de
los organismos responsables.

Al mismo tiempo, el Programa participó de manera significativa en las áreas pobres desarrollando
infraestructura sanitaria, aportando agua potable, desagües cloacales, núcleos húmedos, entre otros.
Estos proyectos representaron casi el 23% del total, destacando que tienen un alto impacto en el
mejoramiento de la calidad de vida de la población en situación de pobreza.

Otros proyectos que tuvieron importante impacto fueron los de infraestructura social. Se incluyen en
esta tipología la refacción, construcción y mejoramiento de áreas destinadas a la atención de la salud, la
educación, asistencial y comunitaria. Este tipo de obras ha permitido fortalecer o crear estructura en un
importante número de localidades. La participación en el programa resultó con el 22%. (ver grafico1)

También es importante mencionar los 2719 proyectos de vivienda que se realizaron con el Programa,
representando el 11% de la totalidad de los mismos.

Los proyectos del Programa TRABAJAR III tuvieron un costo promedio aproximado $15.000. La
cantidad de beneficiarios promedio por proyecto fue de 17. La duración promedio fue de 4.5 meses.
Los proyectos más intensivos en mano de obra resultaron los de la tipología vivienda social con un
promedio de 22 beneficiarios. El monto promedio de la ayuda económica fue de $178. Cabe señalar que
desde 1998 hasta 2000 la ayuda fue de $200, habiéndose producido una baja a $160 hasta el cierre del
Programa.

Los proyectos de TRABAJAR podían ser presentados en carácter de ejecutores por: organismos
públicos, nacionales, provinciales o municipales y organizaciones de la sociedad civil sin fines de lucro
con personería jurídica debidamente acreditada. Algo más del 60 % de los proyectos estuvo a cargo de
las municipalidades, y el 22 % fueron realizados por organizaciones de la sociedad civil. Los
organismos provincias también participaron en el cofinanciamiento de los proyectos, ejecutando un 10%
de los mismos. (ver gráfico 2).

La participación de los Programas Sociales focalizados impulsados tanto por la Nación como por las
provincias, no aparece registrada como ejecutores directos, ya que los recursos son transferidos a los
Municipio u ONG. No obstante, de la información disponible se observa que sólo para algunas
tipologías se logró una eficiente articulación con otros Programas Sociales Nacionales y Provinciales
destinados a población vulnerable o en situación de pobreza. Además de la articulación con el Ministerio
de Educación (Manos a la Escuela); otras experiencias exitosas en este sentido, fueron las desarrolladas


                                                   - 36 -

con los programas de vivienda social (Emergencia Hídrica ­ BID y Programa 17 de MDS), que en
algunos casos han contado con financiamiento internacional. También tuvo un impacto positivo la
vinculación con el Programa de Seguridad alimentaria ­ PROHUERTA - que promueve huertas
comunitarias.




                     Cantidad de proyectos aprobados según tipo de organismo resposnable.
                                      Total País. Agosto de 1998 - Enero de 2002.

                                             Otros/Sin especificar
                                                    3.0%               Org. Nacionales
                                                                            0.6%

                           Sector Empresarial                                             Org. Provinciales
                                 2.7%                                                          9.7%


                    O.N.G.
                     21.9%




         Programas Sociales
                 0.1%




                                                                                      Org. Municipales
                                                                                           61.9%




El logro más importante del Programa TRABAJAR III fue llegar a los hogares más pobres, impactando
positivamente sobre sus niveles de ingreso, así como realizar pequeñas obras de infraestructura social y
comunitaria en, todas las provincias y en casi la totalidad de departamentos del país

El Programa TRABAJAR III con el auspicio del Banco Mundial realizó un estudio para medir el
impacto del Programa, la trasferencia de ingresos en los hogares Ravallion, M, Emanuela Galasso, Teodoro Lazo y
Ernesto Philipp. 2001 "Do Workfare participants recover quicky fron retrenchment?". Policy Research Working Paper 2672, World
Bank., así como profundizar en el conocimiento de las características de los beneficiarios y sus hogares.


El estudio también se enfocó a analizar la situación de los trabajadores del Programa una vez que salen
del mismo, es decir cuando dejan de ser beneficiarios. Se realizó un relevamiento a beneficiarios en tres
aglomerados urbanos (Chaco, Mendoza y Tucumán), sobre el mismo marco muestral de la EPH y en
forma simultanea con dicha encuesta. Durante 18 meses se realizó un seguimiento de los beneficiarios,
esto permitió aplicar la metodología de "matching" construyendo un grupo testigo con la información de
la Encuesta Permanente de Hogares, es decir con personas que reunían características similares a los
beneficiarios pero que no participaron en el Programa TRABAJAR.




                                                           - 37 -

Los principales resultados de esta investigación son:

Respecto de la focalización hacia los hogares pobres: en tanto que en la evaluación de TRABAJAR II se
encontró que le 76% de los beneficiarios del Programa pertenecían al quintil más bajo de ingresos
(medido per capita en le hogar); en el TRABAJAR III se encontró que un 78% de los beneficiarios se
encontraban también en el quintil más bajo de ingresos.

Por otra pare según los resultados de la evaluación es posible afirmar que los hogares eran beneficiados
con la transferencia de ingresos que realizaba el Programa y que no resultaba inmediato el proceso de
sustitución de ingresos una vez que dejaban el Programa. Esto dependía de las condiciones del mercado
de trabajo. El estudio informa que los beneficiarios logran un reemplazo parcial de los ingresos durante
los primeros seis meses, aproximadamente un cuarto de la ayuda económica transferido por el
Programa. Alcanzando un reemplazo del 50% de los ingresos transferidos al cabo de un año.

El Banco Mundial también realizó una evaluación ex ­post de la muestra de proyectos del Trabajar III,
cuyo objetivo principal fue la identificación de los impactos directos o indirectos que generaron los
proyectos sobre la población usuaria. En este sentido, la evaluación determinó el grado de cumplimiento
de los objetivos del Programa, relacionados con la contribución al mejoramiento de las condiciones de
vida de la población afectada, así como el énfasis en los proyectos de orientación social. Esta
identificación y análisis de los impactos de los proyectos permitió estimar el aporte adicional del
Programa relacionado con el producto (proyecto), como un valor agregado al proceso de transferir
recursos para pago de mano de obra.

En tal sentido la evaluación confirmó que otro de los logros del TRABAJAR III fue afianzar la tarea
iniciada por TRABAJAR II, basada en la introducción de una cultura de proyectos de inversión. De este
modo se canalizaron los recursos a obras de utilidad pública. Los proyectos se orientaron a atender las
necesidades locales. La UNEC trabajó profundizando los logros en referencia con la calidad de los
proyectos. Se puede observar que hubo un avance importante en el financiamiento de proyectos más
pertinentes en términos de utilidad social y que el Componente MATERIALES constituyó un importante
mecanismo para fortalecer el impacto de los proyectos en las localidades más pobres. Es posible afirmar
que TRABAJAR se constituyó, con alta visibilidad, a nivel nacional en una herramienta eficiente para la
realización de pequeñas obras de interés comunitario, impactando en los diferentes sectores públicos
locales y regionales.

Estas son algunas de las conclusiones de la evaluación ex post de proyectos: "El Programa tiene un alto
impacto en el desarrollo local de los municipios pequeños, en donde un importante porcentaje de la
inversión pública es aportado por el Programa. En dichas localidades es evidente el valor agregado
que se ha dado a la financiación de la mano de obra, objeto del Programa. Es así como en estos
municipios pequeños el Trabajar III ha sido percibido, no solamente como un programa de empleo
sino como un programa de inversión pública que genera beneficios públicos" (Vázquez, María
Claudia. Evaluación ex ­post de una muestra de proyectos del Programa Trabajar Banco Mundial -
febrero de 2002).

Por otra parte, una de las metas pactadas con el BIRF se relaciona con la finalización de proyectos, los
indicadores de monitoreo presentan un cumplimiento de obras finalizadas es algo más del 72%, y las
provincias que tienen mayor cumplimiento en la ejecución son Santiago del Estero, Santa Fe, Entre
Ríos, Chubut, Catamarca, Mendoza y Salta, todas con más del 80% de obras finalizadas. En tanto que
las provincias de Santa Cruz, Neuquén Tierra del Fuego y Misiones son las que han tenido peor
desempeño, presentando menores niveles de cumplimiento, en algunos casos inferiores al 50%. Resulta


                                                  - 38 -

significativo el número de proyectos que no alcanzó metas en la provincia de Buenos Aires, pero cabe
señalar que se debe en buena medida a la incidencia de las inundaciones que ha mantenido anegada
amplias zonas del centro y norte de la misma durante un largo período de tiempo impidiendo a los
municipios derivar recursos para estas obras, dejándola paralizadas. (Cuadro 2)

Para este tipo de situaciones el Ministerio lanzó el Plan Extraordinario de Regularización, que permitió
acordar con los Municipios y organismos ejecutores un esquema de compromisos para finalizar las
obras, evitando sanciones y mejorando el desempeño general del programa.

Cuadro 2 - Cumplimiento de metas. Total país. Proyectos aprobados desde Agosto de 1998 a
Enero de 2002. Proyectos finalizados al 30 de Junio de 2002.



                                                             Cumplimiento de Metas

                   Gerencia                         Alcanzó metas              No alcanzó metas
                                                         % fila                      % fila
   CAPITAL FEDERAL                                                  74.6                         25.4
   PARTIDOS DEL CONURBANO                                           70.9                         29.1
   BUENOS AIRES                                                     67.4                         32.6
   CATAMARCA                                                        86.6                         13.4
   CHACO                                                            64.6                         35.4
   CHUBUT                                                           82.4                         17.6
   CORDOBA                                                          69.7                         30.3
   CORRIENTES                                                       69.1                         30.9
   ENTRE RIOS                                                       83.1                         16.9
   FORMOSA                                                          68.6                         31.4
   JUJUY                                                            70.9                         29.1
   LA PAMPA                                                         86.6                         13.4
   LA RIOJA                                                         74.6                         25.4
   MENDOZA                                                          88.3                         11.7
   MISIONES                                                         61.6                         38.4
   NEUQUEN                                                          58.4                         41.6
   RIO NEGRO                                                        68.9                         31.1
   SALTA                                                            86.5                         13.5
   SAN JUAN                                                         62.7                         37.3
   SAN LUIS                                                         84.2                         15.8
   SANTA CRUZ                                                       56.1                         43.9
   SANTA FE                                                         80.0                         20.0
   ROSARIO                                                          63.4                         36.6
   SANTIAGO DEL ESTERO                                              91.5                          8.5
   TIERRA DEL FUEGO                                                 42.6                         57.4
   TUCUMAN                                                          65.0                         35.0
   Total                                                            72.1                         27.9
   NOTA: Excluye proyectos dados de baja y sin información.



La totalidad de los proyectos contó con al menos dos vistas de supervisión durante su ejecución. Cabe
señalar que la duración de los proyectos variaba de tres a seis meses. Para los proyectos de mayor



                                                 - 39 -

duración en la mayoría de los casos tuvieron tres visitas. Para todo el Programa, el promedio de vistas
por proyecto 2,3.



3.1 Componente MATERIALES

El componente de materiales, "Trabajar Materiales", inició su ejecución en julio de 1999. Este
componente financiaba la mano de obra no calificada y hasta el 80% del costo de los materiales para
proyectos orientados a satisfacer necesidades básicas, como infraestructura de educación, salud,
asistencial, etc., los cuales han sido considerados como de mayor impacto social dentro del Programa
Trabajar. A través de este componente se han financiado proyectos de origen municipal en aquellas
poblaciones con un NBI mayor de 30% que no cuentan con recursos para aportar los materiales de los
proyectos.

El "Trabajar Materiales" ha financiado 230 proyectos por un monto de $2.6 millones en mano de obra y
$3.3 millones en materiales, para un total de $5.9 millones. En general, este componente presenta altos
índices de cumplimiento en la ejecución de los proyectos y buenos resultados en lo que se refiere a su
pertinencia y al cumplimiento de los objetivos. Estos logros se deben principalmente al diseño del
componente y al proceso de ejecución, los cuales cumple con criterios de optimización de la inversión
pública. Otro de los factores que ha influido en el éxito de estos proyectos es la intervención directa que
ha tenido la UNEC en todo el proceso de evaluación y supervisión (En las misiones de supervisión del
Programa, se analizaron y visitaron proyectos del Trabajar Materiales, lo que ha permitido verificar su
buen desempeño y su importancia en términos de impacto. Estos análisis han sido base para la decisión
de hacer énfasis en la evaluación de proyectos correspondientes a las tipologías mas relacionadas con las
necesidades básicas de la población). La mayoría de los proyectos de componente MATERIALES
correspondieron a la tipología Infraestructura asistencial (40,7%) y las provincias que presentaron
mayor cantidad de proyectos ejecutados fueron Santa Fe, Santiago del Estero, Salta y Misiones.

Una de los objetivos de gestión que se planteó en TRABAJAR III fue mejorar la calidad de los
proyectos así como su impacto social, en tal sentido, no sólo, se incorporó el componente materiales,
para apoyar a los municipios y localidades más pobres. Se establecieron convenios y acuerdos con otros
programas sociales focalizados y con otras áreas del Gobierno Nacional.

En esta dirección de desarrolló el Subprograma "Manos a la Escuela", destinado al mejoramiento de la
infraestructura escolar. En coordinación con Ministerio de Educación de la Nación se desarrollaron
pequeños proyectos de refacción, ampliación y mejoramiento de los establecimientos educativos. A la
mano de obra financiada por TRABAJAR se sumaron los aportes, del Ministerio de Educación, para los
materiales. Los equipos técnicos de Arquitectura Escolar de las distintas jurisdicciones se
responsabilizaron del proceso de evaluación de los proyectos bajo los criterios, parámetros y
metodología del Trabajar III. Este componente contribuyó al cumplimiento de los objetivos del
Programa y, en general los proyectos presentaron un buen impacto en el mejoramiento de las
condiciones edilicias de las escuelas, en distintos municipios y localidades del país. El componente inició
en noviembre de 2000 y a financiado cerca de 350 proyectos.




                                                  - 40 -

4. Resultados Planificados Y Resultados Obtenidos


En términos generales la gestión del Programa TRABAJAR III ha dado cumplimiento a lo previsto en su
planificación inicial.

En lo que respecta a la gestión:

El Programa TRABAJAR III pudo capitalizar la experiencia de gestión que se instaló a nivel territorial
durante el Segundo Proyecto de Protección Social -TRABAJAR II. Así se desarrollaron y fortalecieron
los distintos procesos del Programa. Se consolidaron algunos aspectos aun débiles durante el primer
tramo de Programa TRABAJAR, en particular los procesos de evaluación técnica y seguimiento. Cabe
señalar que estos se habían incorporado en los programas de empleo del Ministerio de Trabajo a partir
de TRABAJAR II.

Se fortaleció la estructura de gerenciamiento del Programa, tanto nivel central como territorial. Este
fortalecimiento permitió contar con información confiable de manera sistemática, organizando un
sistema de indicadores de monitoreo actualizado que orientaba los distintos procesos de gestión, el
rediseño y ajuste del Programa así como la toma de decisiones.

Al mismo tiempo, la asistencia técnica a los organismos ejecutores permitió conformar un capital social
en el territorio en materia de ejecución de proyectos. Se desarrollaron saberes y competencias en el nivel
local en los procesos de identificación y formulación de proyectos, se lograron articulaciones entre
distintas organizaciones, programas sociales y agentes públicos aportando a la definición de propuestas
más pertinentes y de mejor calidad.

Cabe señalar que a lo largo de su ejecución, la situación social en Argentina ha registrado una gran
complejidad, incrementándose los niveles de conflictividad. El período 98 -2002 resultó crecientemente
recesivo. Se vio afectado seriamente el mercado de trabajo, siendo su efecto más notable el aumento de
la pobreza y el desempleo abierto.

Como lo muestran los indicadores de monitoreo, no existen distorsiones en la mayoría de las provincias
respecto los criterios utilizados por el Programa para la asignación de los recursos. Es importante
mencionar que se definió la participación de cada provincia teniendo en cuenta la distribución
porcentual de la población beneficiaria - trabajadores desocupados en situación de pobreza - por
jurisdicción.

Se observa que hay provincias que han incrementado su presupuesto y otras que han ejecutado
proyectos por menor cantidad de recursos que los que les correspondía. Excepto para los casos de
Buenos Aires y de Jujuy, la totalidad de las provincias, presenta una ejecución muy similar a la
planificada. Si bien la Provincia de Buenos Aires, que participó en el Programa con menos cantidad de
recursos que los previstos, mejoró su desempeño respecto de TRABAJAR II, y al igual que en período
anterior contó con un programa provincial, que registró una gran cobertura en particular en el
Conurbano bonaerense, donde se concentra la mayor parte de población desocupada en situación de
pobreza.

El caso inverso se presenta en la Provincia de Jujuy, es una jurisdicción que presenta una ejecución que
supera lo planificado. Esta provincia registró un importante nivel de conflictividad, fuertemente afectada


                                                 - 41 -

por la pobreza y el desempleo, pero al mismo tiempo con altos niveles de participación de los grupos de
desocupados, los que generaron una fuerte demanda de protección social. Pero a diferencia de Buenos
Aires, la Provincia de Jujuy no contaba con presupuesto adicional para asegurar una cobertura mayor
para los desocupados.

La cobertura promedio agregada de población objetivo durante todo Programa equivale a algo más del
30% para el total país, registrándose una oferta heterogénea a lo largo de su ejecución. La Provincia de
Jujuy presentó una cobertura mayor que el promedio, acercándose casi al 50% de la población objetivo,
con alto impacto en algunos departamentos próximos a la capital provincial. Buenos Aires sin embargo
se mantuvo cercana al promedio nacional con el 28% de cobertura.

La crítica situación social, así como coyuntura socio laboral exigió una rápida y sistemática respuesta
del Programa. El impacto se registró fundamentalmente en algunas localidades afectadas por el
desempleo y las falta de perspectivas en los mercados de trabajos locales. Se mantuvo la conflictividad
en lugares (Cutral-Co, Zapala y Plaza Huincul en la Pcia. de Neuquén; Tartagal, San Pedro y Ledesma
en la Pcia. de Jujuy,) y creció notablemente en los aglomerados urbanos, que habían tenido un perfil
industrial en décadas pasadas, como Rosario, y algunos distritos del Conurbano.

Por otra parte, surgieron numerosas organizaciones de la sociedad civil que agruparon a los trabajadores
desocupados y se constituyeron en un polo de la demanda social y laboral. Estas organizaciones
presionaron por una respuesta estatal en materia de política social que atendiera el desempleo.

Esta situación ubicó al Programa TRABAJAR en ciertos niveles de tensión en especial durante la última
etapa de su ejecución. En los centros urbanos con mayor concentración de población creció la pobreza y
el desempleo. Como resultado de esta situación se aprobaron una importante cantidad de proyectos que
tuvieron como objetivo atender a la coyuntura emergente. Durante el período 2002/2001, la
consecuencia de esta situación impactó en dos niveles: por una parte, en la calidad de los proyectos, y
por otra, se vio afectada la distribución de los recursos intra e interprovinciales (menor cobertura de las
áreas más alejadas y en algunos casos más pobres).

Al mismo tiempo, se observó, en los distritos mencionados, que los organismos responsables presentaron
dificultades en el cumplimiento de los compromisos asumidos, viendo restringidos los recursos de
contraparte necesarios para la ejecución de las obras.

No obstante y teniendo en cuenta la meta acordada con el Banco Mundial sobre el cumplimiento físico
de los proyectos: que al menos el 75% de los proyectos debían estar finalizados y poder ser utilizables,
esta meta fue prácticamente alcanzada y está siendo mejorada a través del Plan regularización que
permitió acordar con los Municipios y ONG que habían tenido dificultados de financiamiento durante la
realización de las obras.

De las conclusiones de las visitas de supervisión y de la evaluación ex post de proyectos del Programa
TRABAJAR III, se observa un impacto altamente positivo de los proyectos, en particular los orientados
a cubrir necesidades sociales básicas (agua potable, educación, salud e infraestructura asistencial.).
También, cabe señalar que, en algunos casos los presupuestos de los gobiernos municipales y
provinciales debieron ajustarse en un contexto recesivo, afectando en algunos casos la operación y
puesta en marcha de los servicios y prestaciones que se preveía desarrollar en los proyectos finalizados.
En síntesis, se observó que esta fue la principal causa por la que algunas obras no pudieron ser
plenamente utilizadas, por falta de recursos para la prestación del servicio.




                                                  - 42 -

5. Lecciones aprendidas del Programa

1.- De acuerdo a lo analizado, el impacto alcanzado por el Programa cumplió con los objetivos
trazados en el diseño del mismo. El TRABAJAR III ocupó a más de 400.000 beneficiarios y
contribuyó a mejorar el ingreso de los sectores más pobres de la población. A través de la ejecución
de proyectos se construyó y mejoró infraestructura para los sectores con mayores carencias
económicas.

2.- El monitoreo sistemático de la ejecución así como las evaluaciones realizadas periódicamente
respecto del monto de la ayuda económica permitió asegurar la focalización adecuada del Programa.
La evaluación de Programa demostró que se atendieron a los hogares más pobres afectados por el
desempleo, el mecanismo de autofocalización prepuesto permitió eficientemente incorporar, en
proyectos, a los trabajadores desocupados más pobres.

3.- Además de focalizar el beneficios en los hogares pobres el programa trató de promover la
localización de proyectos en las áreas más pobres. Para ello, se aplicaron criterios de priorización
que permitieron favorecer la aprobación de los proyectos desarrollados en las localidades con
mayores índices de pobreza (medido según NBI de población) y privilegiar el desarrollo de
infraestructura social básica. Estos criterios se relacionan: i) con la localización del proyecto según
nivel de pobreza, ii) la priorización de tipologías según su impacto en las condiciones de vida de los
hogares pobres; iii) la intesividad en el uso de mano de obra; y iv) articulación con otros Programas
Sociales. Asimismo, se incluyó por primera vez en un programa de empleo la ponderación de
criterios en función de prioridades sociales y de emergencia ocupacional a cargo de los actores
locales.

Una de las conclusiones que surgieron de los análisis realizados sobre el desempeño del Programa se
observa que hay una relación importante entre le nivel de gastos(ayudas económicas pagadas) y la
focalización. A mayor nivel de gasto mejor focalización, es decir que mayor nivel de recursos
invertidos es posible llegar a mejor a las áreas más pobres y en general más alejadas. Cabe señalar
que El Programa TRABAJAR ha focalizado mejor en las áreas pobres que otros programas de
empleo Directo del Ministerio de Trabajo.


4.- Las lecciones aprendidas en TRABAJAR II y la experiencia recogida durante la gestión de
TRABAJAR III aseguró el funcionamiento de equipos técnicos en el nivel central y territorial,
fortalecimiento la asistencia técnica a organismos ejecutores así como la evaluación técnica,
monitoreo y seguimiento de proyectos. Esto dio como resultado no sólo una mejora en la cantidad y
calidad de información sobre el Programa, sino que también mostraron evidentes cambios positivos
en favor de la pertinencia y calidad de proyectos ejecutados.


5.- Si bien no era un objetivo del programa fortalecer el capital social, una de las lecciones
aprendidas nos indican que la conformación de redes sociales, la participación de organizaciones de
la sociedad civil en acuerdo con los gobiernos locales, potencia no sólo la ejecución de las obras sino
también su operación y mantenimiento. La capacidad local de poner en juego competencias
personales e institucionales incrementaba notablemente los recursos invertidos en términos de
impacto social. No obstante, se ha observado que, en algunos casos la capacidad institucional de los
organismos ejecutores de proyectos no resultó adecuada para la gestión de las propuestas aprobadas,


                                               - 43 -

   fundamentalmente por la inadecuación de los recursos humanos capacitados para llevar a cabo la
   coordinación técnica de las obras, así como para la operación y mantenimiento.


   6.- Desde lo operativo el Programa TRABAJAR logró consolidar los procesos de incorporación,
   validación y control de los beneficiarios así como alcanzar altos niveles de trasparencia en los
   procesos de pago directo del beneficio ha través de la red de bancos asociada a ANSES.

   6.Misiones de Supervisión y Evaluación del Banco Mundial al Programa TRABAJAR III

   El Banco Mundial ha desarrollado visitas de supervisión y seguimiento del Convenio de Préstamo N°
   4366-AR, que se ejecutó en el período 1998-2002. Las principales preocupaciones del Banco
   Mundial se centraron en asegurar la focalización, en la calidad de los proyectos y a la gestión del
   Programa a nivel regional, en particular los aspectos referidos a la supervisión y seguimiento.

   El desempeño del Banco Mundial en sus misiones de evaluación fue altamente satisfactorio en todos
   los niveles del ciclo operativo del Programa: evaluación, supervisión, seguimiento y monitoreo, y sus
   recomendaciones han contribuido a mejorar el alcance de los objetivos. Cabe señalar que la
   continuidad de los equipos técnicos que conformaban las misiones del Banco permitió alcanzar
   amplios niveles de conocimiento del Programa así como de las particulares territoriales de la gestión.
   Esto favoreció al mismo tiempo un fluido intercambio con los equipos técnicos de la UNEC.



   7. Conclusiones

   El Programa TRABAJAR III, durante el período de ejecución 1998 a 2002 ha logrado:

     ·        Contribuir al alivio de la pobreza dando apoyo a proyectos de construcción, ampliación y
   refacción de infraestructura social, brindando empleo transitorio a más de 400.000 personas.
     ·        Desarrollar un sistema de gestión y financiamiento de proyectos que permitó brindar una
   respuesta dinámica a la demanda de proyectos que satisfacen necesidades de poblaciones con alto
   porcentaje de NBI.
     ·        Beneficiar no sólo con una ayuda económica mensual a personas desocupadas sino brindar
   la posibilidad de participar en obras que contribuyen a mejorar las condiciones de vida del lugar que
   habitan.

A los efectos de profundizar el desarrollo de la política social en Argentina es importante rescatar las
lecciones aprendidas por el Programa.

No obstante, el agravamiento de la crisis social durante el año 2001, la persistencia del proceso de
empobrecimiento, el fuerte aumento del desempleo, de la precarización y la exclusión social, instaló en
la sociedad argentina una fuerte demanda sobre los programas de inclusión monetaria, en particular por
parte de los hogares más pobres sin ingresos o con ingresos que no les permitía superar la línea de
indigencia. Esta situación provocó una importante presión sobre los programas de empleo directo en
general y sobre TRABAJAR en particular.




                                                 - 44 -

- 45 -

