Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17062
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
(Loan 3385-IND)
September 30, 1997
Urban Development Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January, 1992)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rpl million = US $502
US$1.00 = Rp 1,992
(as of March, 1997)
Rp 1 million = US$425
US$1.00= Rp2,350
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS                  National Development Planning Agency
BOOT                      Build Own Operate Transfer
DGEED                     Directorate General of Electricity and Energy Development
EA                        Executive Agencies
ERP                       Expert Review Panel
GOI                       Government of Indonesia
PDP                       Project Documentation Package
PiP                       Second Long Term Plan
PSP                       Private Sector Participation
PMU                       Project Management Unit
REPELITA                  Five-year Development Plan
TA                        Technical Assistance
TAP4I                     Technical Assistance Project for Public and Private Provision
of Infrastructure
TOR                       Terms of Reference
Vice President           Severino, Jean-Michel
Country Director         De Tray, Dennis
Sector Manager (Acting)    Scurfield, Richard
Task Manager             Locussol, Alain



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
(Loan 3385-IND)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ....................................                                                       iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................... iv
PART I:  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...............................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..............................                                2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..............................                      5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................                                   7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................                                         8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..............................                                     8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................                                    9
H. FUTURE OPERATION ..............................                                         9
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..............................                                      9
PART II:   STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX: STATISTICAL TABLES .................................... .                                   11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT .11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS .12
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE .            ...........13.,,................ 13
TABLE 4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL                            13
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (SEC. 1, 2, & 3) .14
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .23
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS ...............................................                    27
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING ............................................... 27
TABLE 8:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...............................................      27
TABLE 9:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................................... 28
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ................................. 29
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...............................................     29
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ............................................... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDIXES:
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE ................................................                                                                31
B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION  TO THE ICR  (IN  PROJECT FILE) ............................................... 33
C. MAP ................................................                                                                                    34



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
(Loan 3385-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance
Project for Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure (Loan 3385-IND) in the Republic
of Indonesia, for which Loan 3385-IND in the amount of US$30 million equivalent was
approved on June 27, 1991 and made effective on November 4, 1991.
The Loan was closed on March 31, 1997 after two extensions totaling two and a
half years from the original closing date of September 30, 1994. The final disbursement
application was received on September 10, 1997. The Loan was closed on September 10,
1997 when the outstanding amount advanced to the Special Account was refunded; at that
time a balance of US$5,895,675.27 was canceled.
This ICR was prepared by Messrs. Alain Locussol, Urban Development Sector Unit
(EASUR), and Ephrem Asebe, consultant. Major contributions both in supervision and
ICR review were made by Messrs. Stuart Whitehead, EASUR, and David Hawes of the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. The ICR was reviewed by Messrs. Richard Scurfield, Acting
Manager, EASUR, and Dennis de Tray, Country Director, Indonesia, East Asia and Pacific
Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in April
1997 followed by a completion mission in July 1997. The ICR is based on material in the
project file and data obtained during the ICR Mission. The Borrower contributed to its
preparation by stating its views as reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire (Appendix A),
and by providing an extensive separate evaluation of the project's implementation available
in the project file.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
(Loan 3385-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    Background. Loan 3385-IND was made to support the first free-standing Technical
Assistance Project for Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure (TAP4I) to assist the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) addressing cross-cutting issues, such as institutional
development and private sector participation (PSP) in the delivery of infrastructure services.
The Bank had earlier financed five free-standing technical assistance (TA) projects between
the mid-1960s to mid-1980s, and its experience with such projects had been assessed to
have a positive impact. Later, GOI preferred to finance policy studies or planning exercises
as part of investment projects; this led to mixed results.
ii.    Project Objectives. As stated in the President's Report (No P5541-IND), TAP41's
basic objectives were to assist GOI in the implementation of its Framework for
Infrastructure Development by initiating immediate actions to (a) assess priorities in current
infrastructure plans for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks; and (b) (i) augment and enhance
program evaluation capability (including, in particular, in cross-sectoral linkages and
environment aspects) within BAPPENAS, and (ii) project preparation capability in line
agencies responsible for key infrastructure sectors, including projects financed by or jointly
with the private sector.
iii.   Project Components. Loan 3385-IND provided funds to finance: (a) Expert
Review Panels (ERPs) to review and evaluate the findings and recommendations of recent
and ongoing policy, strategy and major project preparation studies; (b) in-house advisory
services to BAPPENAS to help strengthen procedures and methodologies for the evaluation
of the investment proposals including BOOT and other private sector schemes; (c) Study
Teams for specific tasks, e.g., institutional performance reviews in the parastatal sector; (d)
project preparation and engineering design services including preparation of bidding
documentation, norrnally to be implemented by line agencies; (e) preparation of feasibility
studies for urgently needed investment; and (f) establishment of a system for project
monitoring and documentation.
iv.    Special Loan Covenants. The only project-specific Loan covenant was the
establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) within BAPPENAS, which was



v
complied with. Except for reallocation of the Loan proceeds among disbursement
categories, based on projected expenditures, no amendments were made.
v.    Evaluation of Objectives. TAP4I's design was intentionally left open-ended. The
President's Report did not mention any specific infrastructure sector on which to focus.
TAP4I's objectives were a challenge for BAPPENAS, which at the time of appraisal had
not yet addressed cross cutting issues to expand the role of the private sector in the delivery
of infrastructure services. BAPPENAS, for which TAP4I was important for preparing the
five-year plan (REPELITA VI covering the 1993-1998 period) as well as the second long
term plan (PJP), was in full agreement with the project concept. The objectives were
realistic in view of the increased demand for improved infrastructure services, but
experience later demonstrated that many key line agencies lacked capacity to develop
sharply focused Terms of Reference (TOR).
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.   Project Achievement. The Loan supported activities mostly in the power and
transportation sectors, and to a lesser extent in the urban sector and regional development; it
also supported institutional development activities. Altogether, TAP4I is assessed to have
made a good contribution towards helping understand and implement various models of
PSP in the provision of infrastructure services and influencing GOI policies in that matter.
TAP4I contributed significantly to the assessment of current infrastructure plans and
bottlenecks in the power and transport (railways, toll roads and ports) sectors and help
define and implement increased PSP in the delivery of these service. TAP4I had little
involvement in the urban sector and none in the telecommunication and postal sectors.
Qualitative assessment of the project outputs is provided in Part II of the ICR.
vii.  Studies financed under TAP4I (table 6) have been instrumental in convincing GOI
of the need for sound cross-sectoral and sectoral frameworks and for improving its
awareness of the key issues. BAPPENAS is currently drafting the GOI Regulation on
Public Private Partnerships for Infrastructure Provision; it is likely that this regulation and
two accompanying implementing decrees will to be reviewed before the end of 1997.
TAP4I's PMU has basically served as the locus for all GOI cross-sectoral activity in this
area. However the main rationale for increased PSP in infrastructure, i.e., providing a
service of better quality at a lower cost to users, is not always understood as the top policy
priority by the various line agencies seeking PSP. As a consequence, there is still much
more work to be done on the development and operation of independent bodies for
regulating private providers of infrastructure services. TAP4I supported no particular
activity to enhance BAPPENAS' evaluation capability in environmental aspects.
viii.  Cost and Timetable. After two extensions of the initial closing date, totaling 30
months, the Loan was closed on March 31, 1997. Last disbursement application was
received on July 31, 1997. The Loan was closed on September 10, 1997 when the
outstanding amount advanced to the Special Account was refunded; at that time a balance
of US$5,895,675.27 was canceled.



vi
ix.   Key Factors Affecting Objectives. The factors affecting project implementation
were generally subject to GOI or TAP4I PMU control. Because of the complexity of
TAP4I objectives to many executing agencies, most of the initial studies they proposed
were rejected by BAPPENAS. The absence of a pipeline of agreed upon Terms of
Reference (TOR) at appraisal resulted in poor performance and low disbursement during
the first 12 months of implementation. Performance improved when the PMU took a more
proactive role in the preparation of TOR and the procurement and monitoring of technical
assistance (TA) services, reinforced by the new arrangements introduced by Ministerial
Decree dated 2, 1993. TAP4I also had to compete with overlapping sources of financing
from the Bank, other donors and GOI's own sources, so its comparative advantage was not
always obvious to potential users, in particular with regards to procedures related to the
approval of the initial financing request, the development of the Project Documentation
Package (PDP) and the procurement of TA services. Unfortunately, lengthy local
procedures and regulations needed for review of TOR and the procurement of TA services
impeded rapid processing. Availability of counterpart funds was never an issue, since the
Loan financed all expenditures, except the salaries of GOI staff seconded to the Project.
x.    Bank and Borrower Performance. Bank and Borrower performances through
appraisal were satisfactory. Preparation activities focused on streamlining project
management and procurement of TA services, by the Bank team, a major business
orientation for the Bank to-day. But limited resources were devoted for the preparation of
draft TOR during this phase, because it was agreed that individual sub-projects would not
be identified at the outset. Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. The
supervision team remained the same throughout implementation, and consisted of a
financial analyst and a transport economist. In particular the staff persistent and expert
involvement during supervision was valuable. Bank supervision was mainly concerned with
improving the quality at entry through thorough reviews of TOR and facilitating high level
discussions on the recommendations developed by consultants financed under the Loan.
However, as noted earlier, the absence of sufficiently prepared TOR at the time of appraisal
was the main reason for TAP4I's poor performance and low disbursement during the first
12 months of implementation, and later the need for extending the Loan closing date. It
was only after GOI placed a pro-active team in the PMU, able to provide assistance to
executing agencies in preparing TOR and to monitor deliverables that disbursement took
off. Nevertheless, two extensions totaling 30 months were needed to implement sub-
projects. The Borrower's performance, initially below expectation, improved significantly
towards the original closing date and was eventually satisfactory.
xi.   Project Outcome.   Overall, the outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory
although the portfolio of sub-projects did not cover all the sectors initially envisioned.
Assistance to the transport and power sectors has been positive and has led GOI to
implement both policy frameworks and PSP options that will have key implications for the
development of related infrastructure. In particular, the power sector was a world class
study. The outcome is less visible in the urban sector or regional planning where TAP4I
was also been active.



vii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
xii.   Future Operations. The Bank is currently supporting a follow-up project (Loan
3913-IND), whose main focus is the urban sector; sub-projects in the postal and transport
sectors, and for water resource management and flood control have also been approved.
The Loan financing this second TAP4I was approved on June 22, 1995 and became
effective on September 11, 1995; at that latter date about 25% only of Loan 3385 IND were
disbursed. Most of the lessons learned from the first TAP4I were built into the design of
this repeater project. However, the latter experienced similar initial implementation
problems because TOR for sub-projects that had been identified at appraisal needed much
more time to be developed.
xiii.  Lessons Learned. The TAP4I has demonstrated that GOI's ability to manage TA
resources efficiently. The major policy studies under taken in the power and transport
sectors demonstrate this capacity clearly, though this was not free of pain at the time for the
sector managers responsible. In particular, the power sector study was an example of best
practice achieved and to aim for in future similar efforts. The implementation experience of
TAP4I has also some specific cautionary lessons for future projects:
-  Project management in free-standing open-ended TA projects, such as
TAP4I, that have to compete with other sources of financing, must be
perceived by the borrower as having a strong comparative advantage; the
PMU should be able to access key decision makers in both BAPPENAS and
the executing agencies, and to resist the temptation of adding a bureaucratic
layer in the processing of TA contracts.
*  Counterpart financing should be significant to ensure increased ownership
and sustainability of this type of project. The operating costs of the PMU,
except foreign assistance, should be covered by BAPPENAS' budget, and at
least 20% of the cost of non-policy-oriented sub-projects be covered by the
executing agencies' budgets.
*  Quality assurance in projects using a "programmatic" approach shifts from
the preparation phase to the supervision phase. As a result, a constant
dialogue among the various parties involved is necessary and may delay
project implementation.
*  In order to improve the pace of implementation of projects such as TAP4I, it
would be necessary to formally agree on TOR at the time of appraisal.
Taking into account the time needed to process a TA contract, once
agreement is reached on the TOR, it would also be necessary, if some funds
are to be disbursed during the first year of implementation, to expedite the
procurement process before the Loan becomes effective.
* BAPPENAS guidance to sector agencies, should be more specific in terms of
the objectives of the projects to avoid having to reject requests for financing
that are irrelevant.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
(Loan 3385-IND)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Background. The Technical Assistance Project for Public and Private Provision of
Infrastructure (TAP4I) was the first free standing TA project financed by the Bank since the
mid-1980s in Indonesia. Loan 3385-IND of US$30 million was made to assist the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) in addressing issues related to the development of priority
infrastructure services. The Bank had financed five free-standing TA projects between the
mid-1960s to mid-1980s (Annex A, Table 2), and its experience with such projects had
been positive. Later, GOI had preferred to finance policy studies or planning exercises as
part of investment projects; however, this led to mixed results, in particular when the
investment program was not an appropriate vehicle for policy dialogue.
2.    In 1990, a Bank Economic Report (No. 8455-IND) highlighted infrastructure
bottlenecks as hampering economic development. It also identified GOI's evaluation
system as an issue to effectively review investment proposals. At that time, GOI' s
Framework for Infrastructure Development emphasized: (a) maximizing the efficient use of
existing infrastructure through improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M); (b) reducing
the lead time for expanding infrastructure networks; (c) promoting transfer of
responsibilities for developing infrastructure from the Central Government to the regional
and local authorities, state corporations or private enterprises; (d) improving information
flow to policy makers on infrastructure development needs; and (e) making maximum use
of existing studies in this area.
3.    Project Objectives. As stated in the President's Report No 5541-IND, TAP4I's
basic objectives were to initiate immediate actions to (a) assess priorities in current
infrastructure plans for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks; and (b) (i) augment and enhance
program evaluation capability (including, in particular, in cross-sectoral linkages and
environment aspects) within BAPPENAS and (ii) project preparation capability in line
agencies responsible for key infrastructure sectors, including projects financed by or jointly
with the private sector. TAP4I was mostly designed to assist GOI substantially increase
private sector participation in the provision of infrastructure services. Associated with this,
TAP4I was also designed to help BAPPENAS access "new" types of technical assistance
specialists needed, such as lawyers of project finance specialists (whose fee rates often
exceed GOI "guidelines"). Finally, TAP4I was designed to address GOI's concern of
reducing long pre-investment lead times for infrastructure projects.



2
4.    Project Components. Loan 3385-IND provided funds to finance: (a) Expert
Review Panels (ERPs) to review and evaluate the findings and recommendations of recent
and ongoing policy, strategy and major project preparation studies; (b) in-house advisory
services to BAPPENAS to help strengthen procedures and methodologies for evaluating the
investment proposals including BOOT and other private sector schemes; (c) Study Teams
for specific tasks, e.g., institutional performance reviews in the parastatal sector; (d) project
preparation and engineering design services including preparation of bidding
documentation, normally to be implemented by line agencies; (e) preparation of feasibility
studies for urgently needed investment; and (f) establishment of a system for project
monitoring and documentation. The only project-specific Loan covenant was the
establishment of Project Management Unit (PMU) within BAPPENAS, which was
complied with. Except for reallocation of the Loan proceeds among disbursement
categories, based on project expenditures, no amendments were made.
5.    Evaluation of Objectives. TAP4I's design was intentionally left open-ended. The
President's Report did not mention any specific infrastructure sector on which to focus.
Rather, all infrastructure sub-projects were potential candidates as long as they met the
broad project objectives, the scope of lending available, and had the support of BAPPENAS
and the executing agencies. The limit placed on the Loan amount to be used for feasibility
and design studies, was not even a constraint since the demand for TA in Indonesia had
mostly been for advisory service and institutional building rather than for pre-investmnent
studies (OED, Report No. 7156).
6.    TAP4I's objectives were a challenge for BAPPENAS, which at the time of appraisal
had not yet addressed cross cutting issues to expand the role of the private sector in the
delivery of infrastructure services. BAPPENAS, for which TAP4I was important for
preparing Indonesian's five-year plan (REPELITA VI covering the 1993-1998 period) as
well as the second long term plan (PJP), was in full agreement with the project concept.
Objectives were realistic in view of the increased demand for improved infrastructure
services, but experience later demonstrated that many key line agencies lacked the capacity
to develop sharply focuses Terms of Reference (TOR).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The Loan supported activities mostly in the power and transportation sectors, and to
a lesser extent in the urban sector and in regional development. Overall, TAP4I is assessed
as having achieved most of the objectives as stated in the President's Report, and to have
had a substantial impact in the first two sectors. The paragraphs below assess achievement
of the objectives globally and the quality of outputs and likely impact by sector.
8.    Objective 1: Assessment of Priorities in Current Infrastructure Plans to
Reduce Bottlenecks. TAP4I's first objective has been reasonably well achieved in the
power and transport sectors, where policy studies it financed helped GOI formulate clear
action plans, including on increased PSP in the delivery of service. TAP4I had a much



3
more limited contribution in the urban sector, and in particular water supply, partly because
of the fragmentation of responsibilities for this sector among various agencies and also
because of the PMU's limited dealings with local governments who are responsible for
water supply. TAP4I had no involvement in the telecommunication sector, that underwent
major restructuring, including privatization, during the mid-1990s through the Third and
Fourth Telecommunications Projects (Lns. 31 82-IND, 3482-IND) and in the postal sector
(see also para. 18).
9.    Objective 2a: Enhance Program Evaluation Capability of BAPPENAS in
Cross-Sectoral Linkages and Environmental Aspects. TAP4I's second objective has
been largely achieved. BAPPENAS senior staff now have a better understanding of cross
sectoral issues to be addressed for creating a favorable environment for PSP. Also,
BAPPENAS is currently drafting the GOI Regulation on Public Private Partnerships for
Infrastructure Provision (KEPRES); it is likely that this regulation and two accompanying
implementing decrees will be reviewed by the highest level of Government before the end
of 1997. Studies financed under TAP4I have been instrumental in convincing GOI of the
need for sound cross-sectoral and sectoral frameworks and creating an improved awareness
of the key issues. TAP4I's PMI has basically served as the locus for all GOI cross-sectoral
activity in this area. However the main rationale for increased PSP in infrastructure, i.e.,
providing a service of better quality at a lower cost to users, is not always understood as the
top policy priority by the various line agencies seeking PSP. Thus, there is still much more
work to be done on the development and operation of independent bodies for regulating
private providers of infrastructure services. TAP4I supported no particular activity to
enhance BAPPENAS' evaluation capability in environmental aspects.
10.   Objective 2b: Enhance Project Preparation Capability of Line Agencies
Including for Projects Financed by or Jointly with the Private Sector. This part of
TAP4I's second objective has been achieved in the power and transport sectors, where line
agencies have actively participated in the preparation of policy and feasibility studies that
had a strong focus on increased PSP. The major policy framework studies undertaken in
the power and transport sectors demonstrated GOI's capacity to manage TA resources
efficiently. The world class quality of the power sector study is an example of best practice
achieved and to aim for in future similar efforts. For the urban sector, much remains to be
done, as evidenced by the case of the Umbulan Water Supply scheme (para. 13) which had
been the subject of intense negotiations between the various levels of government involved
and several private consortia since the late 1 980s. TAP4I was not involved in the
privatization of the Jakarta water supply company that is currently being finalized (para.
18).
11.   Power Sector. US$6.5 million were spent to support four major TA contracts
that fall mostly under the "Policy Studies" category. TA to prepare documentation for
the negotiations of the Paiton private power generation agreement (US$2.2 million) with
a consortium of international and local companies was particularly instrumental; the
agreement signed in February 1994 is likely to serve as a blue print for future private
power development. US$2.8 million were used to assist the Directorate General of



4
Electricity and Energy Development (DGEED) of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, in
developing bid documents, soliciting and evaluating proposals and negotiating final
contracts for coal fired steam, geothermal and combined cycle private power plants.
After responsibility for PSP negotiation was transferred to the national power utility
company PLN, DGEED focused its activities on developing proposals for soliciting
private participation in power transmission and for reducing the costs of geothermnal
power generation by improving existing regulations. Also, US$1.5 million were used to
fund additional studies for the development of a regulatory framework for private power
generation, which helped restructure the national power company PLN. The quality of
these TAs is assessed to be good (fair only for the coal fired steam plants). All together,
these policy studies helped GOI develop a detailed understanding of PSP issues in the
Power sector; TAP4I's objectives can be assessed as having been substantially achieved.
12.   Transport Sector. US$12.5 million were spent to support initiatives in the
transport sector. US$6.7 million were used to finance two feasibility studies for toll
roads; the output has been assessed of good quality. US$5.3 million supported a series of
policy oriented studies'; recommendations provided are of mixed quality, but these TAs
have always led to follow-up actions by executing agencies (EAs). In particular they
helped commercialize the State Railway Company (PERUMKA) and expand PSP in toll
roads and port facilities. TAP4I also financed in-house advisory services to the
Directorate of Urban Road Development (BINKOT) and PERUMKA and an ERP for the
preparation of the Second Highway Sector Project (total US$0.5 million). Globally,
TAP4I substantially achieved its objectives in the transport sector.
13.   Urban Infrastructure and Regional Development. US$4.2 million were used
to finance a series of smaller interventions in the urban sector and to address regional
development issues. The only TA with a PSP focus was the ERP for an unsolicited
proposal for a BOOT for the Umbulan Bulk Water Supply scheme (US$0.2 million) for
the Surabaya region. A series of policy studies were undertaken by BAPPENAS (US$1.9
million) to (a) integrate macro, sectoral and special planning in REPELITA VI and the
second PJP; (b) analyze regional economies and prepare regional investment plans; (c)
institutionalize the Integrated Urban Development (IUD) approach; and (d) identify
constraints impending income growth in poor rural communities. TAP4I also financed
project preparation for the Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project (Ln. 4054-IND)
the Village Infrastructure Project for Java (Ln. 3888-IND), the Umbulan Water Supply
scheme, and a digital mapping system to the Ministry of Public Works. With a few
exceptions, these TAs have been assessed of good quality and have led to follow-up
actions by GOI (table 5). However, TAP4I experienced difficulties in establishing
Surabaya Integrated Transport Network; Ports Development Strategy; Jakarta-Bandung Railway
Corridor; Institutional Development Issues in the Railway Sector; Performance Improvement and
Investment Plan for the State Railway Company; and Human Resource Development Strategy in the
Transport Sector.



5
contacts with local governments responsible for the delivery of services such as water
supply, sewerage, sanitation or solid waste collection and disposal. TAP4I's achievement
in these sectors is deemed negligible.
14.   Institutional Development. BAPPENAS spent about US$0.7 million to finance
(a) a data base on TA services; (b) a study on operation and maintenance strategy: (c) the
strengthening of procurement procedures in infrastructure; and (d) and a study on
remuneration of consultants. The quality of outputs of these TAs and follow-up has been
mixed, and TAP4I's achievement in this domain is assessed as partial. Also, US$0.15
million were spent on training activities with a strong PSP focus, organized in Indonesia
and abroad, that were attended by senior GOI officials from BAPPENAS, technical
ministries and State corporations. Participants acknowledged that they have substantially
benefited from these training activities.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   The factors affecting project implementation were generally subject to GOI or
TAP4I PMU control.
16.   Clarity of Objectives. GOI places high priority on improving the delivery of
infrastructure services and on the necessity of involving the private sector to achieve this
objective. Therefore, TAP4I's concept and objectives were well understood and supported
by BAPPENAS. At the beginning of project implementation, possibly because of too
abstract a formulation of these objectives, some EAs saw the project mostly as an easy
means to finance their own priority sub-projects. Most of the studies and other TAs
initially proposed were inconsistent with TAP4I's focus on PSP and were rejected by
BAPPENAS. As a result of a lack of pipeline of sub-projects meeting BAPPENAS
requirements by project appraisal, considerable effort had to be deployed to prepare quality
TOR and Project Documentation Packages (PDP) during project implementation. TAP4I
experienced very slow progress in contracting; practically no disbursement (except the
initial deposit in the Special Account) took place during the first phase of implementation
(November 1991 to June 1993 -- Annex A, Table 4). Slow contracting was exacerbated
by delays in the PMU's actual start-up and the limited assistance it could provide to EAs
in preparing TOR. After June 1993, with staff changes in BAPPENAS and the PMU, and
the strengthening of procedures, a total of 80 TA sub-projects were contracted out until
the closing of the Loan, with a peak between January and September 1995.
17.   Counterpart Funds. The project cost was estimated at US$36.0 million and the
Loan amount was US$30.0 million. The availability of counterpart funds was never a
problem, since the Loan financed 100% of almost all expenditures. The only counterpart
funds covered the salary of GOI staff seconded to the PMU as well as a portion of locally
procured goods. Delays sometimes occurred in the availability of loan funds for some
sub-projects because of their improper budgeting by implementing agencies.



6
18.   TAP4I's Comparative Advantage. TAP4I was not the only source of financing of
TA focused on PSP in the provision of infrastructure services. In fact, TAP4I had to
"compete" with bilateral funded projects2, trust funds, or TA components of other projects
financed by the Bank or the Asian Development Bank (ADB). For example, the TA
initially identified for the telecommunication sector was finally financed by a sector-
specific Loan, and TA to the privatization of the Jakarta water supply company (PAM
JAYA) was financed by a Japanese PHRD Grant. To compete with other sources of
funds, TAP4I's comparative advantage were supposed to be: (a) simplified approval
procedures; (b) assistance in the development of quality TOR and short lists of qualified
consulting firms; (c) streamlined procedures for procuring TA services; and (d) assistance
in the monitoring of outputs of TA contracts. Success in these fields was variable as
analyzed below. It should, however, be noted that during the implementation period, the
PMU de facto played the role of "GOI's PSP center" and assisted in organizing
conferences and high level discussions on the subject.
19.    TAP4I's Review Procedures. Many EAs, which had not understood that
approval of their request for financing TA contracts was not going to be automatic,
perceived TAP4I's procedures as relatively heavy. The PMU had in fact secreened out
many applications that had not been carefully thought through or which had little
relevance to TAP4I's objectives. While the PMU, and through the PMU the Bank sector
specialists who supervised the various sub-projects, played a significant role in the
development of quality TOR (in some cases TOR had to be substantially redrafted) and
short lists of consultants, several EAs perceived this involvement as intrusive and
limiting their ownership of the TA and their commitment to its monitoring. The PMI
carried out a survey of processing time of the main TA contracts financed by the Loan.
For projects that had to go through the very complex procedures of the competitive
selection process, an average 265 days were needed to reach a final agreement on the
TOR and PDP3. For contracts awarded based on direct appointment, and, which were,
therefore, supposedly much less complex, still an average 172 days were needed. The
survey shows that the delays directly attributable to the Bank for the final review of the
PDP for TA awarded after open competition amounted to about 45 days .
20.    TAP4I's Procurement Procedures. Procurement steps (request for proposals,
preparation of proposals, evaluation of proposals, contract negotiations and signing)
required an average 245 days and 135 days for contracts awarded after competition and
contracts awarded on a sole source basis respectively. TAP4I's PMU was able to
streamline procedures for procuring TA contracts, but it did not quite succeed in reducing
the average elapsed time for procurement; in fact, the PMU tended to become an
additional step in already complex procedures. The PMU survey also shows that the
2  Such as the PURSE project, financed by USAID, that focuses on PSP issues in the municipal sector, or
TA to BAPPENAS, fnanced by CIDA, to finalize regulations on the cross-sectoral framework for PSP.
3  For the proposed Port Development project and the Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project it
took 610 days and 500 days respectively to reach that stage.



7
delays directly attributable to the Bank for reviewing the evaluation report and the draft
contract totaled about 62 days (18 days for directly appointed TAs). These delays could
certainly have been reduced. Although most EAs had limited experience with the
procurement of TA services and were unfamiliar with Bank guidelines, discrepancies
between the latter and GOI procedures for the selection of consultants were not finally a
major obstacle, since BAPPENAS accepted that the former overrode the latter. However,
unwritten rules, such as the ceilings on consultant fees, are generic issues in the
procurement of TA services, that TAP4I was not able to address fully. There were some
few breakthroughs with respect to fee rates, but they caused delays in recruitment and
later in payment.
21.   TAP4I's Monitoring Procedures. Line agencies were primarily responsible for
the monitoring of performance and outputs of TA teams. Most agencies were able to carry
out this function professionally. TAP4I's PMU was kept abreast of development of the
major TA contracts, kept track of all activities and issued project impact statements six
months after their completion. Bank sector staff played a significant role in active
monitoring of the TA contracts, in particular in the power and transport sectors.
D. Project Sustainability
22.   Most of the expected benefits under the project are likely to be sustainable. Studies
funded by TAP4I in the power and transport sectors have provided a sound basis for
increased PSP. Although many issues, such as the need for independent regulatory bodies,
arise as schemes are being implemented, TAP4I achieved more than simply initiating a
learning process. Also, because of improved procurement and monitoring of TA services
the PMU was able to implement, the project is likely to have a long-term positive
institutional development effect, despite the PMU's inability to drastically reduce the
average review and processing times of TA contracts. Under this project, BAPPENAS and
staff of line agencies had the opportunity to consolidate their experience and develop
standard procedures to plan, procure, implement, monitor, and evaluate TA sub-projects.
Experience gained through training in planning, policy formulation and PSP issues is also
likely to be sustainable; it should help in developing rationale approaches in organizing
future privatization processes, and in making decisions that serve the public interest best.
23.   The fact that TAP4I was fully funded from the Loan could be a factor limiting
sustainability and ownership of this type of TA project. Operations of the PMU4 should
have been fully funded by GOI. Also a share of TA assignments not directly related to
policy matters, such as feasibility studies, should have been covered by the EAs' budgets.
4   US$3.1 million, or 13% of the total disbursement on Loan 3385-IND, were used to cover the cost of a
full time expatriate adviser to the Head of the TAP4I PMU, the PMU local staff and PMU operating
costs.



8
E. Bank Performance
24.   Identification, Preparation, Appraisal. Bank performnance through appraisal is
assessed as satisfactory. BAPPENAS and the Bank worked closely together to define the
basic project concept. Preparation activities were mainly focused on implementation
arrangements and project management, with the understanding that the project would be
used as a vehicle to streamline management of TA contracts, procurement of consulting
services was given a special attention, by the appraisal team, a major business orientation
for the Bank to-day. In anticipation of more than standard supervision requirements (Annex
A, table 12), limited resources were devoted for the preparation of draft TOR during this
phase. The idea of putting together, before Loan negotiations, sample TOR for various
sectors was considered, but in view of the range of activities and the need for flexibility,
GOI and the Bank agreed that individual sub-projects would not be identified at the outset.
All sub-projects screened by the PMU and the BAPPENAS-headed Steering Committee
were to be approved by the Bank through periodic consultations with GOI on a "first come -
first served" basis. This "programmatic" approach, and the absence of sufficiently
prepared TOR and PDP at the time of Loan negotiations, is undoubtedly the main reason
for the poor performance and low disbursement during the first 12 months of
implementation, and later the need to extend the Loan closing date. Appraisal rightly
identified delays in contracting of TA services and the availability of very high caliber
experts for Review Panels and Study Teams as the main project risks. Mitigation measures
envisaged for that proved to be insufficient, at least with regards to the procurement of TA
services.
25.   Supervision. Bank performance in supervision is assessed as satisfactory. The
supervision team remained the same throughout implementation, and consisted of a
financial analyst and a transport economist. In particular the staff persistent and expert
involvement during supervision was valuable. A total of 84 staff-weeks were utilized in
supervision compared to the original estimate of about 100 staff-weeks. The above total
does not take into account inputs provided by various sector staff who reviewed individual
TOR or outputs of consultants. Bank supervision was mainly concerned with: (a)
improving the quality at entry, through careful reviews of TOR and PDP: (b) ensuring that
line agencies were fully aware of TAP4I's objectives and of GOI's Infrastructure Policy
Framework; and (c) facilitating high level discussions on the recommendations developed
by consultants. While on the whole the pro-active role played by Bank staff could be
viewed as positive, strong assistance in the preparation of TOR has not always been fully
appreciated by some EAs. Also, the average turn around time needed by the Bank to
review documentation, representing about 20% of the total elapsed processing time of TA
contracts, is another issue raised by the Borrower (Annex table 5).
F. Borrower Performance
26.   Preparation, Appraisal. For GOI, project preparation was limited to defining the
type of consulting services to be provided and the implementation arrangements; its



9
performance at that stage was satisfactory. Implementation. As noted earlier, because of a
very slow start due to the lack of clearly identified TAs, agreed upon TOR and PDP and
limited management capacity, there was no disbursement during the first 12 months of
implementation. It was only after GOI placed a pro-active team in the PMU, able to provide
assistance to EAs in preparing TOR and PDP and to monitor deliverables that
disbursements took off. But even if the project served its functions well by, for example,
supporting TA to the power sector (Paiton BOOT), five months before the initial closing
date of September 30, 1994, only seven contracts had been signed (for a total cost of
US$3,25 million) out of an approved list of sub-projects with a total cost of US$24.1
million. Two extensions totaling 30 months were needed to achieve the level of
implementation reported. Nevertheless, the Borrower's overall performance during
implementation can be assessed as satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
27.   Overall, the outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory although the portfolio
of sub-projects did not cover all the sectors initially envisioned. As noted above, assistance
to the transport and power sectors has been positive and has led GOI to implement both
policy frameworks and PSP options that will have key implications for the development of
related infrastructure. In particular, the power sector was a world class study. The outcome
is less visible in the urban sector or regional planning where TAP4I was also active.
H. Future Operations
28.   The quality of most of the studies financed under the Loan has been assessed as
good. Most are likely to generate follow-up activities. The Bank is currently financing a
follow-up TAP4I, whose main focus is the urban sector, in particular water supply, where
the demand for increased PSP is great but so far has not been transformed into significant
deals, except in Jakarta. Sub-projects in the postal and transport sectors, and for water
resource management and flood control have also been approved. Loan 3913-IND to
finance the second TAP4I was approved on June 22, 1995 and became effective on
September 11, 1995; at that latter date only about 25% of Loan 3385 IND were disbursed.
Most of the lessons learned from the first TAP4I were built in the design of this repeater
project. However, the latter experienced similar initial implementation problems because
TOR for sub-projects that had been identified at appraisal needed much more time to be
developed into acceptable products than anticipated, despite increased assistance to the EAs
by the PMU. Two years after effectiveness, activities have just started and disbursement
taken off, but the project is still rated unsatisfactory with respect to its implementation
performance.
I. Key Lessons Learned
29.   The TAP4I has demonstrated that GOI's ability to manage TA resources efficiently.
The major policy studies under taken in the power and transport sectors demonstrate this
capacity clearly, though this was not free of pain at the time for the sector managers



10
responsible. In particular, the power sector study was an example of best practice achieved
and to aim for in future similar efforts. The implementation experience of TAP4I has also
some specific cautionary lessons for future projects.
30.   Project Management. In free standing open-ended TA projects, such as TAP4I,
which have to compete with other sources of financing, to assist EAs addressing their
planning, policy formulation or PSP options analysis, it is important to develop a visible
comparative advantage, in particular with regards to: (a) rapidity of the review and approval
process of requests for financing; (b) timely assistance provided in preparing quality TOR
and PDP; (c) capacity to speed up the EAs' processing time during the procurement phase;
and (d) assistance provided in the monitoring of TA contracts. Thus, the competence of the
PMU staff, its capacity to access key decision makers in both BAPPENAS and EAs, and its
ability to avoid transforming the PMU into an additional bureaucratic layer are keys to the
project's successful implementation.
31.   Counterpart Financing. Counterpart financing should be significant relative to the
loan amount to ensure increased ownership of the project by its EAs. Except for foreign
assistance, the PMU's operating costs should be covered by BAPPENAS' budget, and at
least 20% of the cost of non-policy oriented sub-projects be covered EAs' budgets. Also,
particular attention has to paid by the PMU and EAs to the timely budgeting of TA services
funded by the loan.
32.   Quality Assurance. In TA projects, where a "programmatic" approach is followed,
to ensure flexibility in sub-project selection and to accommodate changes in priorities
within a very broad framework, assuring quality at entry shifts from the preparation phase
to the supervision phase. Nevertheless, a continued dialogue among BAPPENAS, the EAs,
the PMU and the Bank sector staff involved is needed. Implementation performance may
suffer, but this is a constant among projects that follow the "programmatic" approach.
Extensive discussions and reviews of TOR and PDP during the implementation phase could
also sometimes upset EAs who would have preferred an accelerated implementation pace.
34.   Pace of Implementation. In TA projects avoiding poor performance and low
disbursement during the initial implementation period would require that a series of TOR
and PDP be formally agreed upon at appraisal. Also, taking into account the elapsed time
needed for procuring a TA contract, it would be necessary to expedite procurement before
the loan becomes effective and to streamline procurement procedures to ensure that funds
can be disbursed during the initial implementation period.
35.  BAPPENAS Guidance. In future projects, BAPPENAS and the PMU should
provide more specific up-front guidance to sector agencies in terms of objectives of the
studies and TA to be contracted and support more interdepartmental coordination (as it
was done for the Surabaya Integrated Transport Network Planning Project). Regular
meetings with higher levels, including the State Auditor BPKP, should also be arranged
to help resolve administrative problems that tend to attract too much attention during
implementation.



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
(Loan-3385-IND)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial        Partial          Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                  FL                El                El                X
Sector policies                                           X                 E                 El
Financial objectives                                      E                 El                X
Institutional development                E                X                                   El
Physical objectives                      E                E                 L                 X
Poverty reduction                        E                E                 E                 X
Gender concerns                          E                O                 a                 X
Other social objectives                  2                E                 E                 X
Environmental objectives                  l               El                E                 X
Public sector management                  l               X                 E                 E
Private sector development               X                El                El                EL
Economic benefits                        El               El                                  X
B. Project Sustainability              Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain 1/
(DI(                               (I)
X                El               Eli
C. Bank Performance                    Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
(e               ()                (I)
Identification                           El               X                 E
Preparation assistance                   El               X 
Appraisal                                 l               X                 E
Supervision                               l               X                 E
D. Borrower Performance                Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
(D)              (e)              (I
Preparation                              E                X                 El
Implementation                           a                X                 E
Covenant compliance                      E                X                 E
Operation (if applicable)                 l               E                 E
E. Assessment of outcome               Highly                                               Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El               X                 O                El



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit Title                         Purpose                     Year of         Status
approval
Proceeding Operations
Cr. 135-IND First Technical  To undertake pre-investment and feasibility  1968     First free-standing
Assistance Project           studies and other high priority advisory              TA project in the
services.                                             Bank. Fully
disbursed by the
original Closing
Date. PPAR No.
2015 dated 06/10/81
Cr. 216-IND Second Technical   To prepare projects primarily intended for Bank  1970  PPAR No. 2015
Assistance Project           financing, where the use of the Credit proceeds       dated 06/10/81
would significantly reduce the lead time
between approval and disbursement of sub-
projects.
Cr. 275-IND Third Technical    To finance specifically identified sub-projects    1971  PPAR No. 2015
Assistance Project           including Asahan Project Consultancy, Pemali-         dated 06/10/81
Comal Plant Study, Advisory Service to
BAPPENAS for the development of the steel
industry. Also for advisory services and
institutional building.
Cr. 451- IND Fourth Technical   To emphasize on advisory services for   1973       PPAR No. 4790
Assistance Project           institutional development and training in order
to improve decision making and management
capabilities of the public agencies and the state
owned enterprises.
Cr. 898-IND Fifth Technical  To identify and prepare sufficient well    1979       PPAR No.7156
Assistance Project           formulated projects for potential financing from      dated 08/20/86.
the Bank, inter-governmental groups on
Indonesia members and the Government's own
budget during the third five-year plan
(REPELITA III).
Following Operations
Ln. 3913-IND Second Technical  To support Private Sector Participation in power  1995  Active
Assistance Project for Public  generation and distribution, ports, toll roads,
and Private Provision of     transport and communications, water supply
Infrastructure               and environmental sanitation and water
resource management.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                          Date planned            Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                                  September 1990           September 1990
Preparation/Appraisal                           April 1991               March/April 1991
Negotiations                                    March 1991               May 16-17, 1991
Board Presentation                              June25, 1991             June27, 1991
Signing                                         August 1991             August 8, 1991
Effectiveness                                   August 1991             November 4, 1991
Project Completion                              March 31, 1994          March 31, 1997
Loan Closing                                    September 30, 1994      March31, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
IBRD Fiscal Year                                FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95           FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate                              5.0       14.0     28.0      30.0
Actual/estimate                                 3.0*      3.9       5.0      7.0       17.9    24.1
Actual as % of estimate                         60.0      28        19       24        60       80
Date of final disbursement                                                              September 10, 1997
* Special Account initial deposit



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Implementation Status by Sector
a) Transport Sector
Assessment of TAs Completed
Disbursement Category        Project Code/ Project                 Executive  Cost      Output  Follow-
Agency    US$        quality   on
million            activities
a. 1. Expert Review Panel:   7-Technical Advisory Services In      MPW/       0.06      N/A       N/A
-Policy Review/Studies      Support Of Second Highway Sector      DGH
-Private Participation      Preparation
-Pricing Policies
a. 2 In House Advisers:       12A,12B& 12C-Technical Advisory      MPW        0.39      G         G
-Specific Policy Analysis   Services For Directorate Of Urban Road  BINKOT
-Budget Formulation         Development (Main Contract,
-Financial Analysis         Addendum 1, 2,&3)
62*-Technical Advisory Services To   PERUMK   0.11        G         G
PERUMKA Budgeting And Track          A
Access Charging Systems
a 3. Policy Studies:         I0A*-Surabaya Integrated Transport    MOC/       2.29      G         G
-Repelita VI                Network Planning Project             DGLC
-Restructuring Sub-Sector
- Private Investment and
Regulatory
16A&B-TA Services For Development   MOC/        0.65      F         N
Of Human Resource In The Transport    ETA
Sector (Main, Add I)
17-Formulation Of Proposals For The    MOC/     0.40      G         G
Further Institutional Development Of    DGLC
Indonesia's Railway Subsector
1 8A&B-Review And Prioritization Of   MOC/      0.44      G         G
The Performance Improvement And      DGLC
Investment Plan For Indonesia State
Railway (Main Contract, Add. 1)
19B-Ports Developments Strategy Study  MOCI     0.96      G         G
For The Southern Sumatra And West    DGSC
Java Region
50-Jakarta Bandung Railway Corridor    MOC      0.59      G         G
Analysis Of Short And Medium Term    DGLC
Development
b. Pre-lnvestment             13*-Review Of FS Of Cikampek-        MPW/       4.53      G         G
Studies/Engineering:         Palmanan Toll-Road & Detailed         DGH
-Bottlenecks Projects        Engineering Design Of Cikampek-
-Lead Time Projects           Palmanan Toll-Road
14*-FS Of Cirebon-Batang Toll-Road    MPW/      2.16      G         G
DGH
Sector Total                                                                  12.57
Key: G = good, F = fair, N= no follow-on identified
*Sub-projects completed within the last 6 months are ready for impact assessment. The key level indicator represent a preliminary
estimate.



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Implementation Status by Sector
b) Power & Energy Sector
Assessment of TAs Completed
Disbursement Category       Project                              Executive      Cost      Output   Follow-on
Agency         US$       quality   activities
million
a 3. Policy Studies:        5-TA To Private Power Team For       MME/           2.16      G         G
-Repelita VI               Implementing Paiton & Other BOO     DGEED
-Restructuring Sub-Sector   Project (Main Contract Memorandum
- Private Investment and   1, Add. I Add. 2)
Regulatory
21B*-TA To DGEED For                MME/           1.39      F          G
Developing Bid Documents And        DGEED
Solacing And Evaluating Proposals
And Negotiating For Four Private
Coal Fired Steam Projects
22B*-TA To DGEED For                MME/           1.40      G         G
Developing Bid Documents And        DGEED
Soliciting And Evaluating Proposal
And Negotiating For Three Private
Geothermal And Two Combined
Cycle Projects
231B-Development Of Private Power    MME/          1.54      G         G
DGEED
Sector Total                                                                    1.54
Key: G = good. F = fair, N= no follow-on identified
*Sub-projects completed within the last 6 months are ready for impact assessment. The key level indicator represent a preliminary
estimate.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Implementation Status by Sector
c) Urban Infrastructure Sector
<                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Assessment of TAs Completed
Disbursement Category    Project                             Executive    Cost      Output  Follow-on
Agency       US$       quality   activities
million
a. 1. Expert Review Panel:    2A to 2G-TA to Bappenas for the  Bappenas    0.17       G         G
-Policy Review/Studies     Integration of Macro, Sectoral and
-Private Participation     Spatial Planning in PJP II and
-Pricing Policies         Repelita VI
6-ERP for the Development of       Bappenas    0.18       G        G
Umbulan Spring Project
a. 2 In House Advisers:     42-Support for Establishing a      Bappenas    0.19       G         G
-Specific Policy Analysis    Monitoring System
-Budget Formulation
-Financial Analysis
a 3. Policy Studies:        3A to 3E-TA to Bappenas in          Bappenas    0.63      G         G
-Repelita VI              Regional Economic Analysis for
-Restructuring Sub Sector    Regional Investment Planning (Main
-Private Investment and   Contract, Add. 1)
Regulatory
8B-Institutional of Integrated Urban   Bappenas    0.91   F        F
Development Program (Main
Contract, Add 1)
12-Strategic Urban Road           Bappenas    1.02       G         G
Infrastructure Project
25B-Umbulan Bulk Water Supply     Bappenas    0.40        F        N
Projects (Phase 1)
43-Identification of Transport, Trade  Bappenas    0.15   G        G
and Other Constraints Impeding
Income Growth in Poor Rural
Communities
b. Pre-investment           45A-Infrastructure Project for Poor   Bappenas    0.25    G         G
studies/engineering:        Villages on Java
-Bottlenecks Projects
- Lead Time Projects
Equipment                   34-Digital Mapping System for the    MPW        0.34      G         G
Central Office of the Ministry of
Public Works
Sector Total                                                                4.23
Key: G = good, F = fair, N= no follow-on identified
*Sub-projects completed within the last 6 months are ready for impact assessment. The key level indicator represent a preliminary
estimate.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Implementation Status by Sector
d) Institutional Development
Assessment of TAs Completed
Disbursement Category                                       Executive      Cost     Output  Follow-on
Agency        US$      quality  activities
million
a. 2 In House Advisers:   4A to 4F-Advisory Services to PMU-  Bappenas     1.07     N/A       N/A
-Specific Policy Analysis   TAP4I (Main Contract, Add 1,
-Budget Formulation      Add.2, Add3, Phase II, Phase II-Add.
-Financial Analysis      I
a 3. Policy Studies:      9*-Database on Technical Assistance  Bappenas    0.09     F         N
-Repelita VI             Service in Indonesia
-Restructuring Sub-Sector
-Private Investment and
Regulatory
15*-TA for Operation &           Bappenas       0.16     F         N
Maintenance Strategy Development
52(A)-Institutional Strengthening for  Bappenas  0.14    G         N
Procurement of TA Services for
Strategic Infrastructure Development
52(B)-Study of Personnel          Bappenas      0.34     F         N
Remuneration and Direct
Reimbursable Costs Associated with
Consultancy Services
a 4. On-job-training      66-Workshop on Project            Bappenas       0.02     N/A       N/A
Implementation through Public
Private Partnerships: effective
Strategies for Competitive
Infrastructure Development in
Indonesia
69-Program on Global Reform       Bappenas      0.03     N/A       N/A
Privatization of Public Enterprise
Training                  Workshop and Seminars (Table 5b)   Bappenas      0.08     N/A      N/A
Equipment                 59-Office Facilities Improvement  Bappenas      0.15      N/A      N/A
Services (Part 1, Part 3)
65*-Establishing a LAN System and   Bappenas    0.03     G         G
Application Development in PMU
TAP4I



18
Assessment of TAs Completed
Disbursement Category                                          Executive      Cost     Output  Follow-on
Agency        US$       quality   activities
million
Administration             IA & IF-Manpower Supply and         Bappenas       1.25      N/A       N/A
Office Support Services (Main
Contract Add. 1, Add.2
,Add.2+Mem 1, Add.2+Mem2,
Add.5)
70*-TA Services for Support of     Bappenas       0.09      N/A       N/A
Preparation, Implementation, and
Report Publishing of Public-Private
Sector Dialogue-APEC Co-operation
in Infrastructure
-Exchange House Office Space       Bappenas       0.28     N/A        N/A
Rental for PMU-TAP41 Bappenas
(Main Contract, Add. 1)
6 1-Establishing and Development Of  Bappenas     0.02      N/A       N/A
PMU-TAP4I Library System
70-TA Services and Support for     Bappenas       0.06      G         G
preparation and implementation of
Frontiers of the Public Private
Interface in East Asia's Infrastructure
Conference
71-TA Services and Support         Bappenas       0.09     N/A       N/A
preparation and publication of the
proceeding for the Public-private
Interface in East Asia's Infrastructure
Conference
72-Logistical Support for          Bappenas       0.04     N/A       N/A
Implementation of Frontiers of the
Public-private Interface in East
Asia's Infrastructure Conference
Sector Total                                                                 3.92
Key: G = good, F = fair, N= no follow-on identified
*Sub-projects completed within the last 6 months are ready for impact assessment. The key level indicator represent a preliminary
estimate.



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
2. Training Subprojects
Project   Sub-Project Name                    No. of  Days    Disburse-   Organizer           Status
Code                                          Partici-          ment (*)
pant
39        The Workshop on Public Private         1        12    7,588.00    Institute for    Completed
Partnerships in Transportation                                    International
Infrastructure: Project Appraisal,                                Research (IIR)/
Analysis and Financing Techniques                                 The Pan Asia
for Highways/Bridges, Railways,                                   Information Task
Ports, Airports                                                   Force
IE       Disbursement Seminar for Borrowers,    1       18    1,425.60    Institute of      Completed
Washington D.C., USA                                              Public Private
Partnerships
IE        Public-Private Partnership in          1       12    12,684.00   Institute of      Completed
Transportation on Infrastructure                                  Public Private
Development, Washington, D.C.,                                    Partnerships
USA                                                               (IP3)
IE       Special Workshop on Privatization in   1       14    10,920.00   Harvard Institute  Completed
Developing Countries, Boston, USA                                 for International
Development
(HIID)
IE        8th APEC Transportation Working        1        5     11,200.00   Secretary        Completed
Group, Sydney, Australia                                          Communication
Development
IE        3rd Senior Official Meeting of Asia    I       11    14,000.00   Sec. Gen;         Completed
Pacific Economic Cooperation -SOM                                 Ministry of
III APEC, Tokyo, Japan                                            Communications
of the Republic
of Indonesia
IE       Magister Management of International   1       30    13,352.00   Magister          Completed
Program Study, Jakarta                                            Management
University of
Indonesia (MM-
Ul)
1 E       Program on Fiscal Decentralization     1       26    14,101.00   Harvard Institute  Completed
and Financial Management of                                       for International
Regional and Local Government,                                    Development
Boston, USA                                                       (HIID)
lE        Asean CCI Meetings, 1996, Jakarta      1        3     168.00      Institute of     Completed
Public/Private
Partnerships
(IP3)
IE        Public Private Partnership in          1       17    10,896.07   Institute of      Completed
Transportation Infrastructure,                                    Public/Private
Washington, D.C., USA                                             Partnerships



20
Project   Sub-Project Name                  No. of  Days    Disburse-   Organizer        Status
Code                                       Partici-          ment (*)
pants
IE       Project implementation through       1       18    11,352.66   Institute of     Completed
Government and private partnership,                            Public Private
Washington D.C.                                                Partnerships
IE       BOT Asia 1995 Focus on the           1        2    6,468.00    Institute of     Completed
Philippines, Philippines                                       Public Private
Partnerships
66        Workshop on Project Implementation  1        18    21,190.00   Institute of    Completed
through Public Private Partnerships:                           Public Private
Effective Strategies for Competitive                           Partnerships
Infrastructure Develop. in Indonesia
66        Workshop on Project Implementation  I        18    21,190.00   Institute of    Completed
through Public Private Partnerships:                           Public Private
Effective Strategies for Competitive                           Partnerships
Infrastructure Develop. in Indonesia                          (IP3)
69        Program on Global Reform            1       26    28,431.00   Harvard Institute  Completed
Privatization of Public Enterprise                            for International
Development
(HIID)
69        Program on Global Reform            1       26    28,431.00   Harvard Institute  Completed
Privatization of Public Enterprise                            for International
Development
(HIID)
70        TA Services and Support for         1       29    25,481.00   BAPPENAS and  Completed
Preparation and Publication of the                            WORLD BANK
Proceeding for the "Frontiers of the
Public-Private Interface in East Asia's
infrastructure" Conference
74        Workshop on "Public/Private         1        12    8,665.00    CFED (Central   Completed
Partnerships in Infrastructure Finance:                       for Financial
Mobilizing Private Capital for BOO                            Engineering in
and BOT Projects", Washington D.C.                            Development
75        Workshop on "Regulation of Utilities  1     12    8,665.00    Institute of     Completed
and Monopolies: Effective Models for                          Public Private
Promoting Competition and Consumer                            Partnerships
Protection in Market Economic"                                (IP3)
Washington D.C
76        Workshop on International Program   1       12    9,500.00    PURC (Public    Completed
on Utility Regulation and Strategy"                           Utility Research
Gainesville, Florida, USA                                     Center)
77        Workshop on "Public/Private         1       12    8,665.00    CFED (Central   Completed
Partnerships in Infrastructure Finance:                       for Financial
Mobilizing Private Capital for BOO                            Engineering in
and BOT Projects", Washington D.C.                            Development
78        Workshop on International Program   1       12    9,500.00    PURC (Public    Completed
on Utility Regulation and Strategy",                          Utility Research
Gainsville, Florida, USA                                      Center)



21
Project   Sub-Project Name                   No. of  Days    Disburse-   Organizer          Status
Code                                         Partici-          ment (*)
pants
79        Workshop on International Program on  1       12    9,500.00     PURC (Public     Completed
Utility Regulation and Strategy,                                Utility Research
Gainsville, Florida, USA                                        Center)
80        Workshop on International Program on  1       12    8,500.00     PURC (Public     Completed
Utility Regulation and Strategy",                               Utility Research
Gainsville, Florida, USA                                        Center)
Subtotal                                                       346,959.33



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
3. Timeframe for Processing Projects from Initial Request for Financing to Mobilization
I.A. Competitive Bidding
STEP    STEP   STEP    STEP   STEP   STEP   STEP   STEP   STEP   STEP    STEP    STEP   STEP   STEP    STEP    TOTAL
1        2       3        4        5        6        7        8       9        10        11       12       13       14        15       DUR.
Average for 11 sub-projects (days)   195      20       48       20       16       3       28       35       42       33       13       33       9        6         6        506
TAP41 Standard allocation (days)     25        10      10       20       5        5       25       10       10       15       5        5        5        5         5         160
AverageDelay(days)                   170       10      38       2        11       (2)     3        25       33       18       8        28       4        1         1
I.B. Direct Appointment
Average for9 sub-projects (days)     121         8    44        20       18       5       I8       28       20       9         14      15       9        5                  307
TAP4I Standard allocation (days)     25          10   5                  10               1        3         5       7         5       5        5        5                  86
Average Delay (days)                 96          (2)   39       20       8        5       17       25        15      2         9        10      4        0
Step I   Preparation of Project Documentation Package (PDP),including:
a. Proposal Officially forwarded to PMU-TAP4I
b. TOR review by sector bureau-Bappenas/EA
c. Approval by Steering Commiltee
d. TOR approved in principle by WB
Step 2   Review and approval of PDP by EA
Step 3   Review and approval of PDP by IBRD
Step 4   Revision of DIP/DIPP by EA
Step 5   Issues of RFP package to bidders by EA
Step 6   Pre-bid conference by EA
Step 7   Preparation and Submission of proposals by consultant
Step 8   Evaluation and ranking of proposals by EA
Step 9   Approval of ranking by IBRD
Step 10  Cost negotiation between EA and successful bidder
Step 11  Preparation of draft contract by EA
Step 12  Approval of draft contract by EA
Step 13  Approval of draft contract by IBRD
Step 14  Finalization and signing of contract
Step 15  Form 11 approval by Bappenas



23
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Project  Study                       Propose as defined at     Status        Impact of Study
No.                                  appraisalredefined
3        Research Memorandum Series  Further develop the       Completed    The models developed are
N. 1-11, Regional Economic   available analytical tools            now used by Bappenas on a
Analysis for Regional       aimed at achieving more                daily basis. Local staff in
Investment Planning,        consistency between the               the Regional Development
Bappenas/NEI                macro, sectoral and                    Planning unit, now under
regional and urban level;             the Kepala Biro Regional I
and 2) train local staff and           continue to run the model
transfer the database and              and use the database, to
other analytical tools                 update and improve it.
developed so that Deputy V
staff can carry on by
themselves
8        Final Report,               Document the              Completed    No immediate benefit has
Institutionalization of     implementation of        Need further  been identified.
Integrated Urban            previously committed     work which
Development (Phase 1),     IUIDP loan packages;      will be
National Development        expand the scope of IUIDP   addressed
Planning Agency, October    to include other than    under phase
1995                       infrastructure sectors;   II
develop and execute a
manpower development
program
12A,    Final Report, Project        Provide assistance to the  Completed    As a result of the TA,
12B,     Preparation Volume I and II,   Directorate of Urban Road           SURIP loan for $86.9
&12C    Extension of Services and    Development (BINKOT) in                million was approved in
Strategic Assessment for   preparing proposed project              June and made effective in
Preparation of the Primary  component for appraisal by             October 1996.
Urban Road component of the  the World Bank: screening
Proposed Strategic Urban    potential projects;
Road Infrastructure Project    feasibility analysis of
(SURIP), Project Preparation,  potential projects for first
MPW, Directorate General of  three years; final
Highways, Jakarta, February   engineering design of year
1996                        1 projects; preliminary
engineering of year 2 to 3
projects; concept analysis
of potential later-year
projects; and finalization of
SURIP initial works
program.
1 6A     Development of Human        Devise strategies on     Completed    No benefits attributable to
Resource in the Transport   development of human                  this TA have yet to be
Sector: Final Report, Volume   resources in the transport         identified. A committee has
I to V including the Executive  sector (excluding the rail         been established by
Report, Ministry of        subsector) for the education            Bappenas to consider the
Communications              and training agency of the             report's recommendations
Development of Human        Ministry of                            and to formulate a plan of
Resources in Transport Sector, Communications to achieve           action.
November 1995               its Repelita VI targets.



24
Project  Study                       Propose as defined at     Status        Impact of Study
No.                                  appraisal/redefined
17      Final Report: Forrnulation of   Identify, develop and  Completed    GOI has used the consultant
the proposals for Further   evaluate possible alternative           report for restructuring of
Institutional Development of   models for short, medium,            the Indonesian Railways.
Indonesia's Railway Sector  and longer term
prepared by CPCS consultants  development of the
in association with PT Cakra   institutional structure and
Manggilingan, Jaya, IBRD    regulatory framework for
loan 3385-IND, 30 September  Indonesia's railway
1995.                      subsector; and recommend a
preferred model and
formulate an outline action
plan and medium-term|
program fro its
implementation
18      Final Report: Review and    Review, analyze, evaluate,   Completed    Study contributed to clarify
Prioritization of the       and prioritize performance              PERUMKA's investment
Performance Improvement and  improvement proposals                 requirements: set the stage
Investment Plan for the     included in the railway sub-           for Bank financing to meet
Indonesian State Railways,    sector's medium (five year)          these needs under the
September 1995.             plan etc. Screen these                  Railway Efficiency Project
proposals and formulate                (Ln4106-4ND); The study
investment program for the             also contributed to GOI
Repelita VI period.                    initiatives to embark on a
second stage of
commercialization for
PERUMKA.
19A     The Draft Final Report,      Formulate a long term (25-  Completed    No action has yet been
Technical Assistance Services   years) strategy for the             identified as having arisen
for a Ports Development     development of major                   from this project.
Strategy Study for the      public ports in Southern
Southern Sumatra and Western  Sumatra and Western Java;
Java Region, Ministry of   refine concept plans for
Communications, January     each of the existing new
1996.                      ports; identify likely
candidates for private
investment and recommend
appropriate mechanism for
securing such projects; etc.
23      Final Reports : Phase I, II and   Provide recommendations    Completed    Recommendations have
III, Development of private    and draft regulations,              been used by DGEED to
Power, December 1995,       guidelines and plans on a              develop GOI policies for
March 1996, and June 1996.    number of subjects in order          private provision of power
to achieve GOI policies and            and restructure the national
objectives for participation           power company PLN and
of the private sector in               other agencies.
power activities.



25
Project  Study                      Propose as defined at    Status          Impact of Study
No.                                 appraisaVredefined
25A &    Final Report, Umbulan Bulk   Prepare water abstraction   Completed  The TA confirmed the
25B      Water Supply Project,      policy for the Umbulan                 availability of an alternative
Preliminary Project        spring based on                        water supply for the
Preparation Report, Phase I -  hydrological, hydrological         Surabaya region, although an
Technical Assistance       and detailed environmental             expensive one.
Services including the     assessment; update water
Executive Report, Ministry of  utilization plan for Spring
Public Works, Directorate  based on the water
General of Human           demands of the Surabaya
Settlements, prepared by   region
Mott MacDonald Limited in
association with PT Intersys
Kelola Maju, PT Indulexco
and PT Arcadia Chandra,
IBRD Loan 3385 - IND, May
1995.
42A &    Monthly Progress Reports   Strengthen capacity of the   Completed  The TA services enabled
42B      from January 1995 to June  Directorate of Urban Road              BINKOT to advance SURIP
1995.                      Development to support                 quickly and also assisted in
road transport planning                strengthening its human
and management at the                  resources.
local govt. level
43       Final Main Report:         Data and identification of   Completed  Study has proven useful as a
Technical Assistance       constraints for presidential           reference within GIO and
Services for Identification of  initiative for poverty            IBRD especially in relation
Transport Trade and other    reduction                           to the Village Infrastructure
Constraints Impeding Income                                       Project (VIP) and other IDT
Growth in Poor Rural Areas,                                       actives.
May 1995.
45A      Final Report: Engineering  Rehabilitate and improve    Completed  The TA is assessed to have
Inputs for Infrastructure  local infrastructure in the            significant impact on the
Project for Poor Village Sub-  poorest rural village in           development of the IDT
Project, September 1995.   Java, through - VIP,                   program.
funded by the Bank.
46       Final Report: Support to the    Support the IDT     Completed     The monitoring and
establishment of a         Secretariat in developing a            evaluation system that has
monitoring system.         monitoring system to assist            been developed under this
the planning and                       TA assisted GOI to
management of the IDT                  implement the system
program, as well as future            quickly and was of assistance
planning and                          in expediting funding support
implementation of poverty             for IDT project.
reduction projects.
50       Final Report, The Jakarta -    Identify short, medium and  Completed  Provided collateral benefits -
Bandung Railway corridor,   long-term options for the            transfer of modeling
Analysis of Short and      development of the                     technology to PERUMKA
Medium Term Development   Jakarta-Bandung corridor.               staff and support for the
Options, PERUMKA,                                                 preparation of the Railway
Bandung, August 1995.                                             Efficiency Project



26
Project  Study                       Propose as defined at     Status         Impact of Study
No.                                  appraisal/redefined
52A     Final Report, Institutional  Strengthen the capabilities    Completed    Due to lack of full time
Strengthening for Procurement  of GOI central and line               cadre of professionals
of Technical Assistance     agencies to procure TA                   specialized in the
Services for Strategic      services in support of                   procurement of professional
Infrastructure Development,   Infrastructure planning and            services benefits from this
November 1995               implementation through a                 workshop were limited.
series of workshops.
52B     Final Report: Study of       Supported revised joint    Completed    Joint circular letter issued on
Personnel Remuneration and    circular letter (BAPPENAS              February 14, 1996.
Direct Reimbursable Costs,    and MoF) on the                        Consultants' fees and direct
February 1996.              determination of fees and                reimbursable costs are now
direct reimbursable costs for           more in line with
budget proposals and                    international market, except
owners' estimates                       for local consultants
5       TA to Private Power Team for  Assisted DGEED team in    Completed    Contract signed in February
implementing Paiton and other  contract negotiations with            1994; first phase tariff set at
BOOT Projects.              the investor in the first                US$0.0828/kWh.
Indonesian private power
project, Paiton 1, with a
capacity of 2x6 15 Mwand a
cost of US$2.4 billion
6       ERP to the development of the  Assisted GOI in reviewing    Completed    GOI reconsidered the BOOT
Umbulan Spring Project.     unsolicited BOOT proposal                proposal, and after
for a major urban water                 disagreement on the bulk
production project in the               water rate, eventually
Surabaya region                         dropped it. GOI then
decided to develop the
project with public
financing, funded an initial
preparation with TAP4I
funds, but also dropped the
idea. In 1997, negotiations
are still going on with
private promoters to develop
the project, without an
apparent consensus among
the various levels of
governments involved



27
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                 Actual /latest estimates
Estimated Cost                       Local   Foreign    Total           Local       Foreign    Total
L.AI. Expert Panels                  0.3     2.9        3.2                                    (0.40)
L.A2. In-house Advisers              0.5     4.2        4.7                                    (1.55)
1 .A3. Policy/institutional study Teams  2.7  8.6       11.3                                   (14.76)
L .A4. On-Job-Training               0.1      04       0a5                                     (0.05)
Subtotal                         3.6      16.1       19.7                                  1i6.
1.B Feasibility, Planning/Design Work    3.0  10.5      13.5                                   4.91
Sub-total                            6.6      26        33.2
2. Training                          0.1      0.4       0.5                                    0.07
3. Equipment                         0.0      0.2       0.2                                    0.46
4. Administration                    0.8      0.2        1.0                                   1.75*
Total Base Costs                  7.4      27.0       34.4                                  24.10
Unallocated                          0.7      0.9        1.6
Total Project Cost                   8.1      27.9      36.0                                   24.10
* excluding GOI payments
** Figures in () for Al, A2 and A3 are from the June 30, 1997 Project Report. The total do not add up to
the actual figure for the total.
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            ActuaUestimates (US$M)
Financing Plan                 Local       Foreign    Total     Local      Foreign   Total
Govemment of Indonesia         6.0         0.0       6.0                   -         0.0
IBRD                           2.1         27.9      30.0                            24.1
Total                          8.1         27.9      36.0       -          -         24.1
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable



28
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section         Covenant  Present  Original            Revised           Description of Covenant                      Comments
type       status    fulfillment date  fulfillment date
Loan
3.01 (B)        9           C                                           Borrower to cause BAPPENAS and Line          No comment
Agencies to Furnish each sub-Project for the
Bank's Review
3.03            9           C                                           Borrower to establish Project Management Unit  No comment
for Project Administration, Training and
Procurement
3.04            9           C                                            Borrower shall contract qualified firm to assist   No comment
PMU
4.01 (B) I      I           C                                            Have records and accounts including Special  No comment
Account audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank
4.01 (B) (11)   9           C                                            Furnish auditor's report to the Bank not later  No comment
than 6 months after end of FY.
4.01 (C)        9           C                                            Borrower to cause to be maintained adequate  No comment
statements of expenditures records. Enable
Bank's audits to be furnished to Bank. Retain
for at least I year after Bank received audit of
last withdrawal under the loan.
C= Complied with  CD= Complied after delay    NC= Not complied With  Soon+ Compliance expected in reasonable short time CP=Complied with Partially   NYD=not yet due



29
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                     Description and comment on lack of compliance
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Operation Manual Statements OD or OP/BP
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                                          Actual/estimates
Staff week                      US$ (000)
Identification to Board                   18.5                             59.5
Supervision: Board- Through Last supervision    83.7                       269.3
(02/01/97)
Completion                                5.0                              12.8
Total                                      107.2                           341.6



30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project   Month/year  Numbe   SW    Specialized   Implement  Development  Types of problems
cycle              Mission end   r of     in    staff skills   ation       impact
date         persons  rield  represented  status
Through appraisal    11/00/90    1                FA
Appraisal through    05/17/91    3                FA, LG, LN
Board approval &
elfectiveness
Supervision 1      12/03/92      1         1.2    FA           2           2               Lack of a more proactive approach to an appropriate portfolio of
technical assistance activities. Relatively short (21 months) period
remaining for the loan closing. lack of effective assistance to line
agencies in improving the quality and focus of TOR; preparation of
bid documents; and evaluation of consultants' proposals.
Supervision 11     06/18/93      2         1.2    FA, 1'S      2            I              The lengthy process of establishing a Project Management Unit
(PIMU) and the transfer between Deputies within BAPPENAS affected
project implementation. Appears to miss the opportunity to contribute
to REPELITA VI and the second 25-Year Plan. Project under new and
more pro-active management.
Supervision III    02/18/94      2        -       FA, TS       I            I              Disbursement low. LCD of Sept. 30,1994 needs extending
Supervision IV     8/26/94       2         1.3    FA, TS       HS          HS              Form 590 not updated.
Supervision V      05/02/95      1                FA           HS          IHS             Procurement activity slowed down by the introduction of revised
procurement procedures under KEPRES 16.
Supervision VI     12/08/95      1         1      FA          HIS          HIS             Form 590 not updated
Supervision VII    05/08/96      1                FA           HS           HS             Change in management including creation of a Project Manger, with
signing authority, as well as appointment of a new lProject Director in
supervision role have disbursed the project; delay in invoicing and
disbut senicnts; stalled power sector contract amendments
Supervisiont VIII    08/15/96    2         -      FA, TIS      IIS         IIS             Delays in disbursement perfonnance lagged far behind the value of
services provided; require streamlining invoicing requirements.
Toll road feasibility study to be financed under Loan 3913-INI)
Supervision IX     03/29/1997    1         0.1    WSE          HS          HS              No major problem; ICR under preparation
FA= Financial Analyst, LG= Legal Olficer, LN= Disbursement Oflicer,rs = Transport Specialist, WSE = Water & Sanitation Engineer, TE = Training Specialist



31
Appendix A
Indonesia
Technical Assistance Project
for Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure
(Loan 3385-IND)
Implementation Completion Reporting Mission
Aide Memoire
I.    Loan 3385-IND of US$30 million equivalent to support the TAP41 project was
approved by the Board on June 27, 1991, signed on August 8, 1991 and declared effective
on November 4, 1991. The original Loan closing date of September 30, 1994 was
extended twice to March 31, 1997.
2.    The Loan was made to assist the Government, and in particular BAPPENAS, to
(a) apply the Govermment's framework for infrastructure development; (b) assess
priorities for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks; and (c) augment and enhance program
evaluation capacity within BAPPENAS and project preparation capability in line
agencies responsible for key infrastructure sectors, including projects financed by or
jointly with the private sector.
3.    An ICR mission consisting of Mr. Alain Locussol, Water Supply and Sanitation
Specialist, visited Jakarta from February 28 to March 28, 1997 to: (a) review
implementation of the project; (b) record views of BAPPENAS and the Bank; (c) advise
on the preparation on the Government's contribution of the ICR; and (d) request data for
the completion of the ICR. The same mission visited Jakarta again from June 29 to July
15, 1997 and obtained the Government's contribution to the ICR.
4.    The mission's preliminary findings are that the project has achieved most of its
main objectives because of the overall contribution made by the completed TA
assignments, in particular in the power sector. Out of the 30 TAs financed: (a) 22 had
the quality of their output rated "good" by the Government; (b) 20 had their impact
assessed as "good" by the Government; and (c) 23 had been followed up by some
significant actions.
5.    The main internal and external factors which affected project implementation
were: (a) the difficulty in developing quality terms of reference; (b) long approval
procedures with the Government for both contracts and invoices; and(c) some difficulty
the Project Management Unit experienced in "marketing" the funds and expertise
available.



32
Appendix B
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
The Borrower has provided a comprehensive review of the project implementation
experience prepared by its consultants. The Borrower's report is more than the ten page
limit (actually 26 pages with two extensive annexes each 11 and 56 pages) and hence not
attached to the ICR Report. It is, however, available in the project file.



s~~~~~~~~~~           3   '   I,A?UANEWGUINEA 
8  _U   /                                   C
Z              r        
_  5 g                 .-       _ X  
LU   S'w                     tV                   
; Q            AX7s  
-6       '_ _- '4./'
.                 K     t -. _           t 
\ >   $  /    ,. ---t-t         >  '-
;~ ~ -p?'E5i                 Ri~~          2 i



iMAGING
Report No-: ICR   17062
Type:    IC



