Document of
.Le World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-19 31-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND LOAN
TO THE
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
November 3, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Won
Won 485          =     US$1.00
Won 1,000        =     US$2.06
Won 1,000,000          US$2,061,86
GLOSSARY
KDB   - Korea Development Bank
YCDFC - Korea Development Finance Corperation
MIB   - Medium Industry Bank
GRA   - Guarantee Release Arrangement
KECO - Korea Electric Company
KfW   - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KILC - Korea Industrial Leasing Company, Ltd.
NIF   - National Investment Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SECOND LOAN TO
THE KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Korea Development Bank (KDB) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Korea for the equivalent of $82.5 million. Part of the loan ($75 million)
would be used by KDB for its normal lend!ng operations and would be repaid
substantially in conformity with a schedule based on the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of subloans made pursuant to this loan. The maximum
repayment period would be 17 years, including three years of grace. The
balance of the loan ($7.5 million) would be relent by KDB to its subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Company, Ltd. for the purpose of its leasing
operations, and would be repaid through KDB in 15 years, including one year
of grace. Interest on the loan would be at 8.70 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Current Economic Position and Pros-
pects of the Republic of Korea") was distributed under cover of SecM75-437
dated June 9, 1975. A Basic Economic Mission visited Korea in June/July
1976; its report is being prepared. The Country Data Sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Recent Developments and the Adjustment Process
3.        In the 1970s, the Korean economic situation has been subject to
sudden and sharp changes (see Economic Reports distributed under cover of
R74-42 dated March 4, 1974 and SecM75-437 dated June 9, 1975).. Following
a period of rapid growth the Government undertook a stabilization program
during 1970-72 as a result of which real investment did not increase and
the growth of real GNP slowed to about 8 percent per year. In 1973, inter-
national demand grew rapidly and Korea took full advantage of its oppor-
tunities. As a result, there was an unprecedented boom: real GNP grew by
16.5 percent and export volume by 57 percent; national savings rose to 22
percent of GNP, and foreign savings financed only about 15 percent of total
investment.
4.        The transition from the boom of 1973 to the difficulties encoun-
tered in the last two years reflects the impact of the twin shocks of the
rise in food, oil and other import prices and the recession in the indus-
trial countries. The Korean economy was particularly vulnerable to both
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
of these because of its heavy dependence on imported energy, raw materials,
and foodstuffs, and on exports to the developed countries.
5.        From the last quarter of 1973 to the middle of 1974, the prices
of imports rose very rapidly. The immediate impact of the oil price
increase alone was to raise the import bill by more than twice the entire
current account deficit in 1973 ($309 million) The higher prices of food-
grains added another $300 million to the import bill. Further,,during 1974,
the average unit value of other imports rose by 45 percent while the unit
value of Korea's exports rose by only 27 percent. The adverse shift in the
terms of trade was aggravated by the sudden recession in industrialized
countries. The United States and Japan, which took 70 percent of Korea's
exports in 1973, suffered a decline or abcut 2 percent in real GNP in 1974.
As a result, Korea's merchandise export volume, which had grown by 57 percent
in 1973 (and by over 29 percent in each of the preceding five years), rose
only 9 percent in 1974 and 23 percent in 1975. The volume of exports to
Japan actually declined by about 12 percent in 1974 and increased by only
1 percent in 1975.
6.        These developments had a variety of effects on the economy.   First,
as a consequence of the 18 percent deterioratioit in the terms of trade, Korea
suffered a real income loss of 4 percent of GNP in 1974./i Adjusting for
this, real gross national income rose by only 4.2 percent in 1974, following
increases of 6.7 percent and 15.2 percent in the previous two years. Second,
the higher import prices accelerated domestic inflation. The rate of increase
of wholesale prices rose to 42 percent in 1974 from an average of 7 percent
in the previous four years. Two-thirds of the increase in prices was attri-
butable to increases in the cost of imported commodities.   In an effort to
prevent the emergence of untoward distortions, the Government allowed import
price increases to be fully reflected in domestic prices (with the exception
of basic foodstuffs and fertilizers). Domestic prices of petroleum products
rose nearly 300 percent from August 1973 to December 1974. In general, the
burden of the adjustment was borne directly by consumers as evidenced by the
increase in the prices of electric power and transportation. Consequently,
wholesale prices rose by 42 percent in 1974 and at an annual rate of nearly
30 percent in the first half of 1975. In the second half of 1975, however,
the index increased by only about 5 percent as domestic prices completed the
process of adjustment to international inflation, and the program of monetary
restraint instituted by the Government began to take effect; during 1975, the
increase in the wholesale price index was 20.2 perent. Third, the current
account deficit on the balance of payments grew from $309 million in 1973 to
$2.02 billion in 1974 and nec foreign exchange reserves dropped from $1.1
billion to $0.3 billion. About half of this deficit was due to the terms of
trade loss, the balance being primarily due to the recessicn in the economies
of Korea's trading partners. Finally, part of the adjustment was made by a
slackening in the pace of domestic economic activity. The annual GNP growth
rate slowed from 16.5 perce!nt in 1973 to 13.8 percent in the first half of
1974 and 4.3 percent in the second half. Import volume grew by only 4 per-
cent in 1974, compared with an average increase of 16 percent per year in
/1 At 1970 prices and exchange rates.



-3-
the previous five years. Industrial production fluctuated sharply from month
to month but showed little gain after the first quarter of 1974. Employment
rose by only 3.4 percent and was able to absorb only three-quarters of the
increase in the labor force in the year.
7.        The slowdown in domestic production would have been greater but
for various government measures to sustain employment. In December 1974 the
currency was devalued by 17.5 percent. Special credits were extended through
the banking system to enable industry to accumulate inventories, and the
Government purchased excess inventories of finished goods from industries
particularly hard hit by the fall in export demand. Subsidized credit was
extended to small firms and exporters to ease their financial situation.
The purpose of these policies was two-fold:   (a) to sustain employment levels,
thereby easing the adjustment of the econcmy to the permanent and sizeable
loss of real incomes resulting from the terms of trade movement; and (b) to
prevent too precipitate a decline in investment and production levels of
export industries in response to a temporary recession in export markets.
In support of Korea's long-term goals, it was held desirable to maintain a
minimal economic momentum and to remain poised to take rapid advantage of the
anticipated recovery in export demand. This policy was predicated on the
belief, then shared by many economists and policy makers throughout the
world, that the world recession would be relatively shallow and shortlived.
8.        Contrary to expectations, the recession in industrialized countries
continued well into 1975, with the GNP of OECD countries falling by about
2 percent. Despite the unfavorable demand conditions, Korea's export volume
expanded by about 23 percent in 1975. However, as a result of reduced demand
and increased international competition, particularly for iron and steel and
clothing exports, Korea's export prices declined by about 7 percent and its
terms of trade deteriorated by about 10 percent. This, together with rising
payments on freight and interest obligations, has been principally responsible
for a continued large deficit in the balance of payments of $1.9 billion in
1975 compared with $2.02 billion in 1974.
9.        Korea suffered heavy balance of payments losses in 1974 and 1975
due to an exceptional combination of adverse events. The average loss in the
two years on account of terms of trade movements alone was about 7 percent of
GNP (at 1970 prices and exchange rates). The alternative to incurring size-
able balance of payments deficits would undoubtedly have led to large-scale
unemployment and a loss of growth momentum, which would have had severe
consequences for Korea's long-term development. The essence of Governmental
policy has been to smooth the process of adjustment, while making steady
progress toward effecting a long term improvement in the balance of payments.
To this end, the Government intensified measures adopted earlier in the
decade to tackle longer term structural problems in its balance of payments
and to increase the availability of investment resources.
10.       The severity of Korea's balance of payments problems in 1974 drew
attention to the sensitivity of a trade-oriented economy to the economic
fluctuations of its trading partners. Because Korea is poorly endowed with
natural resources and its principal comparative advantage is a skilled and



-4-
energetic labor force, a relatively high degree of trade orientation is
unavoidable; however, the Government has embarked on strenuous efforts to
reduce the vulnerability to international fluctuations by diversifying the
commodity composition of, and markets for, exports as well as reducing
import dependence.
11.       In 1971 and 1972, 75 percent of Korea's exports went to the
United States and Japan. This proportion dropped to 56 percent in 1975.
In the same period, the share of exports to Europe more than doubled from
9 percent to 18 percent, and the share of other countries (excluding the
United States, Europe and Japan) increased from 16 percent to 26 percent.
Commodity exports to Middle Eastern countries have incr-eased very rapidly
from a small base, and amounted to $319 million in 1975. Similarly, the
commodity concentration of exports has declined significantly; four major
categories of exports (textiles, clothing, plywood and miscellaneous manu-
factures) accounted for 60 percent of exports in 1970 but only 47 percent
in 1975. During this period there was a particularly rapid grewth of
exports of iron and steel, electronics, electrical machinery and appliances
and ships. During the last year, Korea has also been highly successful in
winning construction contracts in the Middle East. The development of new
exports and the upgrading of the quality and design of traditional exports
are the major means by which Korea hopes to diversify its exports and to
further reduce its dependence on the Japanese and United States markets.
12.       These developments suggest that Korea will be able to sustain a
rate of growth of exports that is rapid compared to other countries,
although not as high as it was prior to 1974. Global projections indicate
that the volume of manufactured exports by developing countries is likely
to grow about 12-15 percent per year for the rest of this decade. Con-
sidering that 90 percent of Korea's exports now consist of manufactured
goods, that its links with the Japanese and U.S. economies remain strong,
that successful efforts are being made to penetrate new markets and that
some progress has already been made in diversifying the industrial structure,
the long-term prospects for Korea's exports are markedly better than for
developing countries as a whole. Provided measures continue to be taken to
maintain price competitiveness, Korean exports may be expected to grow at
20-25 percent per year in terms of current prices (allowing for inter-
national price inflation of 5-6 percent per year).
13.       The potential for reducing imports significantly is limited.    Of
total imports in 1975, 30 percent consisted of raw materials for exports
and a further 27 percent was capital goods, categories in which substantial
import savings are unlikely to be compatible with maintaining international
competitiveness of export industries. More than half of the remaining
43 percent of imports consisted uf petroleum and foodgrains. The scope for
restraining petroleum imports (18 percent of the total) is very limited;
because domestic energy sources are limited to low quality coal, firewood
and limited hydroelectric power; petroleum supplies about half of Korea's
energy needs and is utilized almost entirely for essential industrial and
transportation purposes. The number of private automobiles is relatively
small and home heating needs are met by coal and wood. Despite these



-5.-
factors, the rate of growth of petroleum consumption has been severely
curtailed - from 1.8 times GNP growth in 1968-73 to about the same rate as
GNP growth in the following two years.
14.       In order to reduce dependence on imported foodgrains, there has
been an energetic effort to increase agricultural productivity. In 1972-73
imports of grain accounted for about 30 percent of consumption and about
11 percent of total imports.   Since then, the rate of growth of value added
in agriculture has nearly doubled (from about 3.5 percent to about 6 percent
per year). This was partly the result of good weather, but also reflects
the use of improved inputs and the assurance of high grain prices. The pro-
portion of land under high vielding varieties of rice has increased from
16 percent in 1972 to an estimated 48 percent in 1976. Despite the very
severe topographical limitations (only a quarter of the land area is culti-
vable), there is a growing promise that Korea will be able to achieve self-
sufficiency in its staple foodgrains - rice and barley. It is anticipated
that imports of foodgrains will amount to only about 6 percent of total
impQlts.
15.       The Government set itself two major economic goals for 1976:
restraining inflation to a rate of 10 percent and reducing the balanice of
payments deficit on current account to $1.4 billion (from $2.0 billion in
1975). Present indications are that these objectives will be met. The
current deficit for 1976 is now forecast at about $1.1 billion as a result
of buoyant exports and strong measures to restrain domestic demand. Export
earnings are expected to rise to about $7.2 billion, 45 percent ahead of
1975, primarily because of the economic recovery in the industrialized coun-
tries; and GNP is expected to rise by about 11 percent. Despite this, the
rate of increase in wholesale prices is being held at around 10 percent.
In part, this is the result of reduced Government deficits and a slowdown
in investment due to the severe restriction of banking credit to the private
sector. The significant improvement in Korea's economic performance in 1976
will provide a strong base for the Fourth Development Plan for the period
1977-81.
Longer-Term Prospects and Program
16.       The prenaration of the Fourth Five Year Plan for the period
1977-81 has afforded an opportunity for a comprehensive review of Korea's
economic problems, prospects and priorities. Its longer-term goals are
"growth with enhanced self-sufficiency" and greater "equity and social
development". Self-sufficiency is interpreted principally in terms of a
strengthened balance of payments rather than autarky. It is the firm inten-
tion of the Korean Government to achieve a maximum rate of growth consistent
with a sound balance of payments and also with the maintenance of internal
financial stability. Although investment is expected to continue at about
26 percent of GNP over the Plan period which will enable the achievement of
a rate of growth of GNP of about 9 percent (slightly lower than the average
of 10 percent attained during the last decade), the current account deficit,
which is now about 6 percent of GNP, is to be eliminated by 1981. National
savings are expected to finance a higher proportion of total investment than
the 72 percent figure during the Third Plan period.



-6-
17.       Growth and stability are not the only objectives.   Enhanced equity
and greater social development are of equal importance in the Korean scheme
of things. The main emphasis is on providing adequate employment opportuni-
ties for the rapidly growing labor force to prevent aggravating the unemploy-
ment problem /1 and on achievingja wider distribution of the benefits of
growth. Productivity and earnings will be increased by the provision of
Lncreased facilities for vocational and in-plant training. Health. outlays
will increase as a proportion of total investment with special stress on pre-
ventive care and an innovative health delivery system td service low income
families. The faminly planning program will be strengthened.
18.       The achievement of these goals would not require a change in the
basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has followed so
successfully.  The ratio of total exports to GNP is expected to rise from the
current level of about 27 percent to about 42 percent in 1981, with the
manufacturing sector continuing to provide about 90 percent of total exports.
This demands the achievement of further gains in efficiency and productivity.
Korea's comparative advantage lies in manufactures, such as machinery, elec-
tronics and shipbuilding, which require relatively more skilled labor. It is
also necessary to achieve some import substitution in steel and chemicals to
ensure an adequate supply of the intermediate inputs for the export industries.
These changes in the industrial structure will require intensive efforts to
improve the mechanisms for the transfer of foreign technology and the develop-
ment of appropriate indigenous technology.
19.       The successful implementation of the Plan will depend largely on
Korea's ability to marshall the required resources. Strong policy measures
are envisioned in the Plan to increase the mobilization of domestic resources.
Success in restraining inflation is, as already noted, expected to have a
favorable effect on increasing private savings.   In the past, private savings
have fluctuated with the movement of the tarms of trade and the rate of
inflation. No further adverse movement in the terms of trade is expectEd in
1976 and the rate of inflation is estimated at 10 percent. This situation is
expected to continue through the Fourth Plan period. The Government is taking
measures designed to channel the higher private savings likely to be generated
by these developments to an increasing extent into the financial system, and
thereby, into more effective use for productive investments. In addition to
restoring a positive real rate of return on financial forms of savings, the
Government is taking steps to increase the supply of government and corporate
securities to the public and to provide more attractive schemes for savings
mobilization by commercial banks.
20.       These measures are being supported by fiscal action to increase
public savings. The defense tax surcharge imposed in 1975 is to be continued
and a value-added tax introduced. The extent of the subsidizaticn of farmers
/1 Although the rate of population growth has declined to below 2 percent,
the rate of growth of the labor force will continue to be around 3 per-
cent a year over the next decade because of the baby boom following the
Korean War in the early 1950's.



- 7 -
and urban consumers through the Grain Management Fund and the Fertilizer
Fund is to be reduced so as to eliminate the operating deficits on these
accounts.  This will remove the substantial burden which these Funds had
imposed on Government finances (in 1975, the borrowing from the Central
Bank on the two accounts was W 350 billion, or nearly 4 percent of GNP).
The increased resource mobilization and the strong restraint on current
expenditures will result in substantial budgetary current surpluses which
could be used to finance capital expenditures.
21.       The fruits of growth are to be spread more equitably among al''
segments of the population. The continued adoption of a high-growth stra-
tegy and emphasis on labor intensive production is expected to generate
adequate employment opportunities to absorb the increment in the labor
force during the Plan period. Rural incomes are expected to increase as
a result of a further improvement in the agriculturaI terms of trade and
increased opportunities for non-farm employment (primarily througi6 the
Saemaeul Movement). The quality of life in the rural areas is to be fur-
ther improved by the provision of infrastructure facilities.
22.       The Plan's priorities, strategy and programs are sound.    The con-
tinued emphasis on relatively rapid growth is essential in the light of the
employment objective and the predominant role the export sector is expected
to play is appropriate in view of Korea's limited natural resources. More-
over, Korea has the manpower and the entrepreneurial capacity to implement
the proposed investment program.
23.       However, the main impediment to the successful implementation of
the Plan is likely to be the difficulty Korea may encounter in raising the
necessary resources. The domestic savings targets are somewhat ambitious
while the projected import requirements may turn out to be too low. The
a'bility to obtain foreign capital in adequate amounts and on reasonable
terms will continue to be a challenge. The servicing of the sizeable
foreign borrowing required should not pose serious difficulties given the
present debt service ratio /1 and the prospects for continued export growth,
provided, however, that the proportion of external debt incurred on shorter-
term and at high interest rates is not excessive. Assuming the capital
inflows will be forthcoming on reasonable'terms, the debt service ratio
is expected to peak below 15 percent by the end of the decade and subse-
quently decline steadily as exports continue to expand.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       As of September 30, 1976, Korea had received 28 Bank loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA credits, amounting to $1,172.8
million in loans and $106.9 million in credits (taking into account cancel-
lations and the refinancing of one IDA credit in a subsequent Bank loan).
/1 Around 12 percent on an outstanding medium and lopg-term debt of
$5.7 billion at the end of 1975.



-8-
25.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been for the transport
sector - $219.7 million for railways, $191.5 million for highways and $80
million for ports. $194.5 million has been lent for agriculture projects.
The Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150 million,
the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $60 million, and the Medium Industry Bank
(MIB) $30 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. A total
of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects, $25.0 mil-
lion for a tourism project, $15.0 million for a secondary cities project,
and $60.0 million for a rural infrastructure project. In addition, two
program loans amounting to $175.u million have also been granted to Korea.
26.       As of September 30, 1976, $523 million OL the total Bank lending
remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commit-
ments in the past eighteen months. Annex II contains a summary s-tatement
of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of that date and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes, progress
with project implementation is generally satisfactory.
27.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had by
September 30, 1976, entered into 16 commitments totalling $69.9 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Under advanced consideration are
further investments in leasing and heavy electrical products; under prelimi-
nary consideration are projects in cement distribution, special steels and
construction materials.
28.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and
rural development is reflected in the Bank's lending program for FY77.
The Miho Watershed Area Development Project and a Second Agricultural Credit
Project were approved by the Executive Directors in July and September, res-
pectively; and a project encompassing the second stage of the development
of the Yong San Gang basin will be submitted to the Board shortly.
29. ,     The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed program.
30.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt
(disbursed) outstanding at the end of 1975 was almost 8.7 percent, and the
share of debt service was of the order of 4.6 percent at that time. These
ratios are expected to increase to around 18 percent and 11 percent by the
end of the present decade.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
31.       Korea's highly successful growth performance in recent years
was particularly impressive because it has a poor endowment with natural
resources apart from relatively poor grade coal and some iron ore it has
hardly any mineral deposits and few sources of hydro-electric power. In



- 10 -
have resulted in increasing the share of heavy and chemical industries
in gross manufacturing output from 33 percent to 38 percent between 1972
and 1975.
34.       Korea's long-term development plans are formulated on the premise
that its growth over the past decade, which lay along rapidly expanding
manufactured goods exports, can be extrapolated through the early 1980s. To
this end, the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81) aims at the achievement of an
increase in manufactured exports of the order of about 16 percent per annum.
This target, together with a greater domestic demand for manufactured goods
will require a growth rate in the output of the industrial sector of around
I percent.   The Government is also convinced that the long-term viability of
the Korean economy depends upon reducing its reliance on imported capital and
intermediate goods. Further, there is also a realization that the continued
growth of the industrial sector will be instrumental in providing relatively
well paid employment opportunities for the country's growing labor force.
Korea's industrial development strategy for the Fourth Plan period centers
around export expansion, net import substitution and meeting the growing home
market demand. Korea's strong comparative advantage in skill-intensive
exports is expected to be retained for the foreseeable future. Thus, the
outlook for the further diversification of industry by increasing the output
of intermediate products - especially steel and chemicals and by developing
engineering-based industries, appears to be promising.
35.       The major restructuring and expansion of Korea's industrial sector
will require a heavy outlay of capital. Tentative figures indicate that the
investment needs of the major industries for the 1977-81 period would amount
to at least $8 billion equivalent - a considerable part of which would be in
foreign exchange. The Government has embarked on a major effort to mobilize
the funds required by increasing domestic savings.  A National Investment
Fund (NIF) Law was enacted in December 1973. The Minister of Finance is in
charge of the Fund but in effect delegates its management and operation to
the Governor of the Bank of Korea. By 1981, the NIF is expected to finance
about 75 percent of total investment needs of major industries. The resour-
ces of the Fund will be mobilized mainly (about three-fourths) by issuance
of NIF Bonds and the remainder by direct subscription by the Government. NIF
Bonds will be bought by various savings institutions, including banks and
insurance companies, and by private investors. The funds will be onlent
through the banking system for investments in fixed assets (about two-thirds)
and for working capital needs (one-third) of major industries.
36.       The timely provision of long-term finance for the key industries
will depend to a large extent on the efficient operation of the NIF and the
tapping of other sources of funds such as Korea's three major development
finance companies, the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), KDB and
the Medium Industry Bank (MIB). These three institutions were responsible
for 64 percent of total medium and long-term loans in Korea in 1975. The
Bank has already made five loans to KDFC and is contemplating a sixth; the
proposed loan will be the Bank's second to KDB. A loan for the MIB was also
approved in order to support the Government's efforts to encourage the loca-
tion of relatively small industrial units in the rural areas and so increase



-9-
the immediate post-Korean War years the economy, which was then predomi-
nantly agricultural, was sluggish; however, growth began to accelerate
sharply about 1963 and has resulted in the transformation of the traditional
economy into one in which the dynamic industrial- sector plays a pivotal role.
The pace of industrialization, led by the expansion of manufactured goods
exports, has been about thc, most rapid attained by any developing country
over the last decade. The output of the manufacturing sector has risen at
the rate of about 18 percent annually since 1963, and its exports which
stood at less than $50 million in that year rose to about $4.5 billion by
1975,' accounting for nearly 90 percent of total merchandise exports.
32.       The industrialization strategy followed by Korea over the last
decade was based on a clear recognition of the limitations placed on it by
the country's relative lack of natural resources. It was primarily on this
account that development planning centered around the aim of expanding the
export of manufactures rather than concentrating almost entirely on import-
substitution as was the case in many developing countries in the early
sixties. One important ingredient in the success of this policy was the fact
that formal education during the fifties was at a level comparable with that
of countries enjoying income levels three times as high as Korea. This gave
Korea the advantages of a skilled and adaptable labor force as well as the
ability to quickly develop efficient managerial talent.   Therefore, Korea has
adopted a policy of concentrating on labor-intensive industries such as tex-
tiles, clothing, electronics and plywood, the capital requirements of which
are low compared to output. In this respect, it is noteworthy that the
great expansion of Korea's industrial structure in recent years has absorbed
only 20 percent of total fixed investment and that the incremental capital:
output ratio in manufacturing has declined from 1.7 in 1968 to 1.4 in recent
years, and that value added per worker, which is about $1,700, compares
favorably with that in other East Asian countries (Philippines - $600;
Taiwan - $1,150; Malaysia - $1,500).
33.       The high rate of economic expansion attained during recent years
has received some of its impetus from significant structural changes. The
capital stock in manufacturing has almost doubled over the last five years
indicating an annual average growth of about 15 percent. The continuing
absorption of labor into industry is a reflection of both a heavy volume
of investment in manufacturing and a continued emphasis on labor-intensive
lines of production. During the 1970-75 period, electronics, apparel,
leather products and footwear were among the fastest growing industries.
However, the headway made during these years in the establishment of the
steel and shipbuilding industries is indicative of a shift into more
sophisticated lines of production. The completion of the second stage of
the Pohang Plant has increased Korea's output of steel to a level of over
2.5 million tons per annum; also, the shipbuilding industry which has been
developed largely for exports has shown remarkable flexibility in adapting
to changes in the pattern of international demand for its products, since
it has shifted its efforts from building supertankers to conventional
vessels. Korea's efforts to deepen and diversify the industrial structure



- 12 -
41.       Although the Government is KDB's sole shareholder, KDB has full
authority in making decisions on projects financed from resources raised
independently of the Government, including funds from international institu-
tions.
Operations and Resources
42.       KDB's operations fall into the following principal categories:
extending capital loans in foreign and domestic currency and working capital
loans in domestic currency; making investments in equity shares, corporate
and municipal bonds and debentures; issuing guarantees in domestic and foreign
currencies; and engaging in the leasing of industrial machinery through its
subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing Company (KILC).
43.       From its inception in 1954 to December 31, 1975, KDB made loan
commitments aggregating W 863 billion ($1.8 billion). Nearly 80 percent of
this amount was committed in the last five years. As of December 31, 1975,
loans outstanding amounted to W 577.8 billion ($1.2 billion) in respect of
2,416 loans to 446 companies; of this amount a; 528.8 billion.($1.1 billion)
for 2,045 projects was for local currency loans, while foreign currency
loans amounted to W 49.0 billion ($0.1 billion) for 371 projects. KDB's
foreign currency lending operations began in 1960 when it assumed responsi-
bility for the use of a line of credit provided to the Government by USAID.
44.       The share of the private sector in KDB's loan commitments decreased
marginally over the last three years (from 45 percent,to 42 percent); the
sector accounted for nearly 38 percent of KDB's total outstanding portfolio
as of December 31, 1975.   In terms of the number of conipanies, the private
sector predominates with 93 percent of outstanding capital loans and 91 per-
cent of working capital loans. While the average size of loans committed by
KDB to public sector enterprises increased marginally over the last three
years (from W 500 million in 1973 to W 550 million in 1975), there was a
sizeable increase in the average size of loans to the private sector, from
W 47 million to W 137 million. At the end of 1975, loans exceeding W 200 mil-
lion ($412,000) each accounted for 22 percent of the total number of loans,
but nearly 87 percent of the total amount outstanding. The geographical
distribution of K1DB's lending operations follows the general pattern of
industrial location in Korea; some progress was made in 1975 in financing
projects in regions other than the two main centers of Seoul and Busan. The
manufacturing sector has received the largest proportion of KDB's outstanding
loans (37 percent), while the principal nonmanufacturing sectors in KDB's
portfolio are electricity (34.8 percent) and t:ansportation (13.4 percent).
45.       KDB's investment portfolio, which had increased at an average
annual rate of 8 percent during the period 1971-74, rose by 91 percent in
1975, mainly on account of substantial share transfers by the Government
(cf paragraph 49). At the end of 1975, it consisted of W 131.6 billion
($271 million) in equity shares and W 13.5 billion ($28 million) in
bonds and debentures. Twenty-one of the 33 companies in KDB's portfolio at
tne end of 1975 belonged to the public sector. Manufacturing enterprises
accounted for 36 percent by number and 57 percent by amount with construction-
rolated and service industries constituting the largest share of the enter-
prises in the nonmanufacturing sector.



off-farm employment opportunities. All three institutions have obtained
loans from the Asian Development Bank; KDFC and KDB have also been success-
ful in borrowing from commercial sources abroad. The magnitude of the
demand for term finance in Korea is such that these three institutions,
even if their operations increase significantly, will continue to act in a
complementary rather than a competitive manner.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Korea Development Bank" (No. 1255-KG,
dated September 30, 1976) is being distributed separately. A Loan and Project
Summary is attached as Annex III.   Negotiations were held in Washington from
September 20-27 with a Korean delegation led by Mr. Hung-Koo Kang, Counselor
at the Korean Embassy in Washington, D.C.
The CoG.pany
38.       KDB is Korea's largest term-lending institution and is wholly
Government-owned. KDB was established in 1954; its primary purpose is "to
supply and administer funds, in accordance with Government policies, for
financing necessary industrial projects with a View to expediting industrial
rehabilitation and economic development." In its first few years, KDB con-
centrated on helping iia the reconstruction and rehabilitation of industry
and infrastructure which had been severely disrupted during the Korean War.
During this phase, KDB restricted its activities largely to making local
currency loans to finance enterprises engaged in power generation, coal mining
and textile manufacture. In recent years, it has broadened its activities to
include the provision of finance for transport, shipbuilding and most indus-
tries in the manufacturing sector, both public and private.
39.      In addition to the provision of finance, KDB performs an important
qualitative role in support of Korean industry. It retains the majority
interest in a number of Government sponsored projects and eventually sells
the shares to private investors after improving the projects' performance.
It also carries out statistical surveys, conducts economic and industrial
rese.rch, undertakes engineering surveys and business analysis and provides
managerial assistance for the projects it finances. On occasion, it has
advised the Government on major economic policy issues and assisted in the
formulation and execution of public sector projects.
40.       KDB's operations are governed by the Act under which it was
established, and which enumerates general policies and guidelines; these
are elaborated upon by the Enforcement Decree and its by-laws. In addition,
KDB's operations are conducted in keeping with a Policy Statement whlich out-
linss its operational and financial policies and procedures. The Minister
of Finance exercises broad supervisory powers over KDB's general strategy,
policies, budget and planning through: (a) approval of KDB's Annual Opera-
tional Program, which is basically a quarterly analysis of the projected
uses and sources of funds, (b) audit of KDB's budget and accounts, (c) exami-
nation of the various periodic reports submitted by KDB, and (d) approval of
the by-laws and Operating Manuals and any revisions thereof.



- 13 -
46.       KDB commenced guarantee operations in domestic currency in 1961
and in foreign currency in 1968.   The outstanding guarantee portfolio as
of Decermber 31, 1975 was W 1,480 billion ($3.1 billion), 2.6 times KDB's
outstanding loan portfolio. Some of the 5auarantees are large; outstanding
guarantees exceeding W 2 billion ($4 million) still represented 90 percent
of KDB's portfolio at the end of 19175, although their share of commitments
had declined in the last two years. Although the default rate had been
negligible and the issuance of guarantees represents an important service
to industry, the potential risk to KDB was considerable and could have
seriously affected its long-term creditworthiness. However, a severe cur-
tailment of KDB's guarantee function is not considered advisable. In view
of this, when the First Bank Loan was made to KDB, the Government and KDB
established a Guarantee Release Arrangement. Under this Arrangement, GRA,
the Government has undertaken to provide KDB with funds necessary to enable
it to meet its obligations on defaulting guarantees and, should the default-
ing company be unable to meet its obligations, to reimburse KDB for whatever
payments it makes in such cases.
47.       KDB finances Government sponsored projects, the selection and
formulation of which are carried out by other entities such as the MIinistry
of Commerce and Industry or consultants. In such instances, the Government
uses KDB as a conduit for funds provided from budgetary or other sources.
This formula has been applied, for instance, to loans channelled through
KDB to the Korea Electric Company, the Korea National Railroad and the
Korea Highway Corporation. The large exposure of KDB in the Korea Electric
Company led the Bank to ask, as a condition of the First Loan, that an
agreement be signed between the KDB and the Government whereby, in effect,
the risks attached to KDB's lending to the electric company were assumed
by the Government. An assurance has been received, in connection with the
proposed loan, that whenever KDB makes loans on behalf of the Government
for projects selected by the Government, KDB will act strictly as an agent
of the Government, without assuming the financial risk. It was further
agreed that the amount involved would be shown separately as administered
funds in its balance sheet (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       The establishment of leasing companies in Korea in December 1972
presented KDB with another opportunity to expand its operations into a new
field. The Government was becoming increasingly concerned with the diffi-
culties encountered by relatively small enterprises, which traditionally
have high debt/equity ratios and limited available collateral, in securing
medium and long-term capital. It was felt that leasing could offer a
solution to this particular problem which was faced by a large number of
medium and small sized firms seeking to expand their operations since leas-
ing companies do not normally require collateral even from those concerns
whose property had already been pledged in full for security in relation
to existing loans from commercial sources. Accordingly, KILC was estab--
lished in December 1972 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of KDB. KILC's opera-
tions amounted to about W 1.08 billion ($2.2 million) in 1973 and almost
quadrupled to a level of W 4 wbillion ($8.2 million) in 1974, reflecting
the strong demand for its financial assistance on the part of small and



- 14 -
medium scale enterprises in the vitally important manufacturing sector in
Korea. KILC's leasing contracts remained at a level of around W 4 billion
in 1975 as a consequence of resource constraints which were also felt by
its parent company - KDB. During its three years of operations KILC has
proved an efficient organization and succeeded in making a valuable contri-
bution in the provision of capital for an important segment of Korea's
industrial sector. The principal objective in earmarking funds from the
proposed loan was to enable it to increase the volume of its operations.
Resource Structure
49.       As of December 31, 1975, KDB had total resources of W 861.8 bil-
lion ($1.8 billion), of which W 43.3 billion were short-term resources
consisting mainly of short-term deposits. KDB's equity was its largest
single source of funds. The authorized share capital is W 300 billion, of
which W 203.2 billion had been paid in at the end of 1975 consisting of
W 79.8 billion in cash, W 47.5 billion in the form of loan conversions and
W 75.9 billion through the transfer of shares. The substantial increase
of W 50 billion in the value of shares transferred last year has affected
KDB's liquidity position. Since most of the shares are not traded, they
cannot be readily sold by KDB. The problem is cbmpounded by the fact that,
under existing laws, the shares are transferred on the basis of the "higher
of appraised or face value." An assurance has been received that the Govern-
ment will make its equity contributions normally in cash, or by conversion
of loans, and in the exceptional case when its subscription is made by way
of transfer of shares, it will ensure that the shares will be valued on a
fair and reasonable basis.
50.       The rest of KDB's domestic currency resources were obtained
largely from reserves and retained earnings (W 50 billion, $103 million),
borrowings from Government (W 149 billion, $307.2 million), the National
Investment Fund (W 125.6 billion, $259 million), the Industrial Rationali-
zation Fund (W 51 billion, $105.4 million) and Industrial Finance Debentures
(W 68.5 billion, $141.3 million).
51.       KDB has also used its commercial borrowings abroad to make loans
in domestic currency. It obtained its first Eurodollar loan of $25 million
in 1970; this has been fully repaid. The second loan of $80 million was
subscribed in January 1974, is repayable between 1977 and 1984 and has a
floating interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR. A further loan in a similar
amount was negotiated in July 1976, which is repayable over five years and
carries interest at 1.875 percent over LIBOR. These funds are onlent also
at a floating rate with the foreign exchange risk being borne by the sub-
borrowers. In addition, KDB has been successful this year in issuing
Industrial Finance Debentures for $25 million in Abu Dhabi, the proceeds of
which are also used for onlending in domestic currency.
52.       KDB contracted its first foreign currency borrowing from USAID in
April 1960 in the form of a line of credit of $5 million, which was followed
by two more lines of credit in 1966 and 1968 totalling $22.4 million. It
has received three loans totalling DM 40 million ($16.9 million) from the



- 15
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and expects to secure another amounting
to DM 20 million later this year. Four loans totalling $100 million have
also been received from the Asian Development Bank. In all these cases the
foreign exchange risk is borne by the subborrowers.
Financial Situation
53.       As of December 31, 1975, KDB's total assets amounted to W 2,311 bil-
lion ($4,765 million), including W 1,480 billion of outstanding guarantees.
Over the period 1971-1975, total assets increased 3.2 times and at the end of
the period the loan portfolio (excluding guarantees) accounted for 60 percent,
the investment portfolio for 17 percent and current assets for 18 percent of
total assets. Equity financed 31 percent of total assets and long- and short-
term liabilities the balance. Borrowings in domestic currency (W 385.9 bil-
lion) acounted for 76 percent of Tbng-term debt, while borrowings in foreign
currency (W 84 billion) constituted 17 percent of such debt.
.54.       KDB's liquidity position deteriorated during 1975 and the current
ratio had declined to 1.0 by the end of the year. This was the result of
KDB's inability to raise long-term commercial funds from abroad because of
the international capital market situation, the Jeterioration in business
conditions in Korea in 1975 which led to the rescheduling of a number of
loans, and the fact that capital contributions by Government were largely in
the form of transfer of shares. This situation prompted KDB to formulate a
number of policies directed to raising the current ratio to 1.5:1. These
included: the accelerated sale of shares held, stricter matching of maturi-
ties of assets and liabilities, requesting prepayments whenever the financial
capability of borrowers would justify it, and an approach to the Government
to provide equity capital in cash or by the conversion of Government loans.
These measures have already borne fruit; the current ratio improved to 1.4
by the end of March 1976.
55.       The KDB Act stipulates that, at any given time, the aggregate of
outstanding Industrial Finance Debentures and KDB's guarantees should not
exceed ten times its net worth. As of December 31, 1975, KDB was within this
limit (5.6 times) and its debt/equity ratio (3.3:1) was also well within the
limit of 5:1 specified in the Loan Agreement for the First Loan.
56.       Over the past five years, KDB's profitability was low, averaging
1.3 percent of total assets or 3.3 percent of equity. However, there was a
significant improvement in 1975 when its profits increased to 9.2 percent of
total assets and 6.9 percerit of equity. This modest profitability does not
reflect inefficiency but is largely attributable to the fact that, as a
Government-owned financial intermediary, KDB is not primarily profit-oriented.
57.       KDB's portfolio is of good qualit.   Of the 431 companies in opera-
tion to which KDB has lent (or invested in), 385 were operating profitably,
33 were operating at a loss but without facing serious difficulties and 13
companies representing 4.4 percent of the total portfolio were likely to face
serious problems or were closed temporarily. Total arrears amounted to only
0.2 percent of the total outstanding loan portfolio, as of December 31, 1975.



- 16 -
Economic Impact of KDB's Projects
58.       KDB plays a predominant role in term financing in Korea.    Its out-
standing loan balance of W 577.8 ($1.2 billion) at the end of 1975 accounted
for 16 percent of total loans of all the country's banking institutions. KDB
directly financed 7 percent of total fixed capital formation during 1975 and,
including its guarantee operations, helped to finance 34 percent of total
fixed investment during the year. Its foreign guarantee portfolio of $3.0 bil-
lion represented 38 percent of Korea's total foreign medium and long-term debt
at the end of 1975.
59.       KDB assists the Government in formulating and implementing economic
policy, advising on specific issues, helping in the conduct of studies and
programs and participating in various Government committees. KDB is well
qualified to do so since it has a competent staff, performs regular financial
and production surveys and, through its day-to-day operations, is in close
contact with the business community. KDB's economic research activities are
well recognized in Korea and many of its reguilar studies and surveys are
published and receive wide circulation. In the implementation of Government
policy, it operates as a direct channel for the Government to provide funds
for specific priority projects and also as an efficient allocator of resources
which it raises independently. It has underscored Government priorities by
supporting export oriented projects and devoting a sizeable proportion of its
resources to heavy and chemical industries.
60.       In 1975, the output of enterprises assisted by KDB was valued at
$3.6 billion, or one-third of total industrial production, and their exports
amounted to $2.1 billion which represented over 40 percent of Korea's total
manufactured exports in that year. The projects assisted by KDB generate
considerable additional employment; its manufacturing clients alone employ
340,000 workers or about 15 percent of total manufacturing employment.
61.       An analysis of a sample of 33 of KDB supported projects indicates
that they had highly satisfactory economic rates of return which in most cases
exceeded the financial rates of return; moreover, in all cases the economic
rate of return exceeded 15 percent, which is above the Bank staff's estimate
of the opportunity cost of capital in Korea. These results are not surprising
since Korea's industrial policies have been highly successful and KDB's close
adherence to them has enabled it to finance economically sound projects.
Business Prospects and Resource Requirements
62.       Despite the energy crisis and the worldwide recession of the last
two years, the Korean economy is expected to grow at around 11 percent in
1976 and to maintain over the rest of the decade a rate of growth of about
9 percent. Industry will have to continue to play a crucial role in Korea's.
growth efforts and it is expected that the export-oriented manufacturing
sector will have to contribute a significant proportion of incremental output
and will, thus, require a high level of investment if Korea is to achieve her
growth targets. Because of its size, its competent management and staff, and
its development-oriented policies, KDB will have a very important role to
play in helping to achieve Korea's overall economic goals.



- 17 -
63.       For the three-year period 1976-78, KDB's loan commitments are
expected to be of the order of W 699.6 billion ($1.4 billion) in domestic
ci'rrency and W 106.3 billion ($219 million) in foreign currency; in addi-
tion, it would require W 69.9 billion in domestic currency for equity
investment commitments, making a total of W 875.8 billion ($1.8 billion).
This projected volume of business is fully attainable from an institutional,
management and staff point of view, but the actual level of operations will
be determined by resource availabilities rather than being restricted by a
lack of demand for capital. KDB should be able to exceed its business
forecast if it succeeds in raising additional long-term resources.
64.       To meet the projected commitments and to improve KDB's liquidity
position, KDB proposes to borrow W 987.2 billion ($2.0 billion), of which
W 109 billion ($225 million) would be in foreign exchange. The proposed
Bank loan would finance about one-third of KDB's foreign exchange commit-
ments in the current year and the next two years, and the KDB proposes to
request a further Bank loan of approximately $100 million in FY79. The
balance is expected to be financed by the Asian Development Bank and KfW.
Relending Terms
65.       KDB's interest rate structure has been influenced by the role it
is expected to play. Most interest rates An Korea are controlled by the
Government through the Monetary Board. KDB's interest rates on local cur-
rency loans range from 12 to 17.5 percent depending on the source of funds,
but preferential rates, below this range, are granted for priority indus-
tries. Loans from funds provided by international organizations are onlent
with a 2 percent spread above the KDB's borrowing rate with the ultimate
beneficiary bearing the exchange risk. There is a penalty rate of 25 per-
cent on all overdue loans. The Government is keeping the level of interest
rates under close and constant review and has recently effected some changes
in the interest rate structure by increasing these rates selectively. It
has signified its intention to make such further changes as may be necessary
in the light of the rate of inflation prevailing at the end of the year.
66.       In view of the quality of KDB's appraisal work and the proven
ability of its management to make sound investment decisions, an increase in
the free limit from $750,000 to $1.5 million is proposed. (Section 2.03 (b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). There would be no aggregate free limit under
the proposed loan. With the proposed free limit, it is estimated that
subprojects accounting for about three-fourths of the proposed loan amount
would require prior approval of the Bank.
Objectives and Justification
67.       The contirnued growth of the industrial sector is a crucial element
of Korea's developmenit strategy. KDB's experienced and competent staff and
its relations with the Government and business community make it a parti-
cularly suitable channel for providing finance for medium- and large-scale
projects. KDB has processed a large number of projects each year and has
played an important role in the process of industrial development in Korea,
particularly over the last decade. Its investments are economically sound.



- 18 -
68.       KDB's further growth is not expecced to be constrained by a lack
of demand for the financing and other services it offers. The main objec-
tive of the proposed Bank loan, in addition to the provision of finance for
high priority industrial investment, is to assist KDB in expanding its
operations on an economically and financially sound basis by improving its
appraisal standards, overall planning and financial management.
69.       The objective of apportioning $7.5 million of the proposed loan
to the Korea Industrial Leasing Company, a suibsidiary of the KDB (Section
2.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement), is to use the well managed leasing
company as an intermediary to reach small scale enterprises. The KILC
component will be used for projects meeting specific eligibility criteria;
only enterprises with total assets of up to W 600 million or projects which
involve the creation of jobs at an estimated cost of up to $15,000 each
will normally be eligible (Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement).
70.       In order to obtain a reasonable sectoral distribution of the sub-
loans and to ensure that the bulk of the loan is not used for a few very
large projects, an informal understanding has been obtained that not more
than 25 percent of the loan would be used to finance projects in any one
nonmanufacturing sector, and that within the manufacturing sector this
percentage would apply to individual industries. Moreover, the size of
a single subloan will not normally exceed $5 million.
71.       To sum up, the proposed loan will enable the Bank to continue
to play its institution building role and increase the flow of resources,
primarily to the crucially important industrial sector in support of the
Government's development strategy; it will also, through the KILC compo-
nent, assist smaller enterprises.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Develop-
ment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Korea and
the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreememt of the Bank and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements follow the normal pattern of
Bank agreements of this kind. The special features of this loan are described
in paragraphs 48 and 69 of this Report.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
Part VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
November 3, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1 pages
TABLE 3A
KOREA, REPUBLIC 0'F - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA--THOU---------                                          -
ARE                                       KOREA   REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
--------------                                  MOS-T--                               -------
ATOGTRAIC.   24.                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE          THAILAND       TURKEY          JAPAN *
AGIC  24- --                        -   ------- ---------         - ----         ------- -----  ------- --- --
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      110.0   'E  270.0       550.0              220.0       480.0      2650.0
- -- - --- - ----- ---- ---
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
-------------------------------
POPULATICN (MID-YR. MILLION)             25.0        31.4        31t,O              36.3       35.7        104.3
PER SOUARE KDS                        250.0       319.0       345.0               71.0       146.0       282.0
PER SU. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        1217.0      1320 0      1368.0                 *         3 .0      1575.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND          397         35.0        28.7               44,         40.6        17.5
CRUDE CEATH RATE PER THOUSAND          22.9        11.14        8.8               13.7        14.4         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)                        .                             00        150          1.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 'YRS)         52.6        57;         60.6               55.5        54.4        71.1
GROSS PEPRODUCTION RATE                 3.1 /a      2.6         2.4                3.2         2.6 /a,b    1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   2 .8        2.3         1.6                3.1         2.5         1.0
URBAN                                   5.9 /b      6.4         4.8                3.7         4.2         4.0
URBAN POPULATION 1t OF TOTAL)            28.0        141.2       147.3              13.0        31.2        84.4
AGF STRUCTURE (PERCENoT)
A   TO 14 YEARS                       44.0        42.1       39.9 /a             45.0        41.8        24.0
1  TO 14 YEARS                        53.0        54.6        56.7 7-a           52.0        53.9        68.9
65 YEAT S ANS OVER                      3.0         3.3        3.4 7L              3.0         4.3         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.9         0,8         0.8/a              0.9         3.9         0.5
EC3NOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1-5/C       1.4         1.*2 712                       L.1/        0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..          .A'         ..              460.0
USERS (% OF MARRIEn WOMEN)               ..        42.0        34.0               10.0         ...2
EMPLOYMENT
- -- - --- ---                                                                     160-          40.0/     30
TOTAL LABOR CORCE ITHOUSAND)           7500.0     10400.0    12100.0             16700.0      14500.0 /d 53300.0
LABOR FORCF IN AGRICULTURE (17           66.0        50.5/a      50.6/-,b           79.0        67.3        19.3
UNEMPLIYEO (% OF LABOR FORCE)             9.0         5.7         14.1                ..         4.0 /e      1.2
INCC4E DISTPIBUTION
-- -- -- -- -- -- - --- -- -
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHFST   58 OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.0 /d     17.1        18.1 lb              ^-        32.8 /f     14.2
HIGHEST 208 OF HOUSEHOLDS              42.027 1414.5           43.4 77 *                      60.6 7      37.6
LOWEST   208 OF HOUSEHOLDS              7.0 7d      7.1         7.2 7?              ..         2.97?       8.8
LOWEST   408 OF HOUSEHOLDS             20.0 7d     17.7        18.7 7?              ..         9.4 7-f    22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
----------------------
t OWNED BY TOP 108 OF OWNERS             27.0        28.0          ..                 ..        53.3
Y OWNED BY SMALLEST 10t OWNERS            3.0         2.0          ..                 ..         3.9
iHEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN               3000.0 /e,f 2210.0 /c   1990.0 /ad         7970.0      2220.0       880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          3220.0  e   1760.0 7?   1700.0 6-q         6650.0     1880.0 /F    240.0
POPULATION PEP tOSPITAL BED            2600.0 L    1920.0      1990.0 7            850.0       490.0       80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES 18 OF REOUIREMENTS)           85.0       103.0       107.0 /e           105.0       110.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                53.0        65.0       68.0 7?e-           52.0        78.3       76.3
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           13.0/e      19.0          ,,               17.0/a      22.0 lh    45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOUI AGES 1-4                                                                     15.0jb       1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         96.0       104.0      1014.0               82.0 lb    111.0 /     101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       27.0        41.0       147.0 /a            16.0 7     28.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIOEO
(FIRST AND SECrONO LEVEL)              12.0        12.0       1Z.0                12.0        11.0       12.0
VOCATIONA. ENROLLMENT6
(I OF SECONDARY)                       14.0        16.0       16.0 /a             14.0        14.0       20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE 18)                    ..        87.0        92.0 7?            79.0        55.0 /      99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                2.8/        2.7          .                  ..         1.9         1.0
OCCUPIED OWELLINGS WITHOl.T
PIPED WATER 18)                        88.0 Jg,h   80.0 /d       ..                 ..        64.3         5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(8 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   28.0        50.0       8O.0 /a               ..       41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (8)                     12.0        30.0       40.0 /a               ..        18.0
CONSUMPT ION
- ----- ---- -
RAnIO RECEIVERS (PER T44O7J PnP)         32.0       126.0       127.0 /a            78.0        89.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             0.4         2.0         2.0                5.0         4.J        84.U
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             71.0       307.0       535,0              124.0       247.0      3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAPI                 1.8         3.4         3.3                1.0    '    0.7        18.9
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of L pages
NOTES
Unless otherwis Inoted, data for 1960 refer to any yeaLr between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 tetween 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
aa Japro, has been selected as en objective country due to the similarIty of the present K.,,.,n economic structure to that of Japan in the mid-fifties
(with the sane principle resource base, i.e., efficient, industrious, cheap labor ann heav,y reliance on imported raw m.atri.ls). Mreove.r, agricul-
ture, transport, and other sectors of the economy have similar char.snt,rlstic,.     Koeam also ha, a pattern of Industrial developan,nt which is not
veryv different frmn the one Japan pursued with great success in the sxtes
KOREA, REP. OF     1960    Ls  1950-55;     /b  i955-60;    /c   Ratio of population -nder 15 aod 65 and ove.r to total labor force;      /d  Wage end salary
income of urban households,' 1961s;   A    1).62;   If  Registerd, not all practicing in the country;        &   Households;
A Water piped inside.
1970    /A   A., percentage of employment;     b  Regie,terert;   /c  hs.glsterd, not all practicing in the country;      /d  Water piped
inside..
MOST R ENT ESTIMATE: ,        1972;     fb  As perce-tags of employmen t;    /c  1971, -rurl and urban;      d   Registered, not all
practiciri in the country;     /c   1969-71.. avrage;    If  10 years old and over ;    h   Ratio ofpoua
tion under 15 and 65 and ov,er to total labor forc..                                         a          P1
THAILAND           1970    /A  196h-66;     /b  7-13 and 11-18 years of age respectively;      Ic. Public schools, which include technical educa.tion at ith
post-scondary leve.1
TURKEY             1970    /A  Excludes 17 eas tern provinces;     /b  196,5-67;   Ac  Ratio of population under 15 and b5 and ove.r to labor force age 15
years old and over;     Id  15 yea.rs and over, e.xcludes unemployed;    A   Registered only;     If  Disposa ble income;
/p  Including as.slstant nurses end midwives;     /b  19611-hi;    I   7-11 years, of age;    Aj Persons six year old and over
who tell the cnenus takers that they can re-ad and writo.
R&6 Aeugut L, 1i976
OEFTNrrI0NS OP SO*ILN DIAORS
Lend Ares (thou ta2)                                                                   Population, o    Ursing  erson - Population div,Ided by number ni' prar tie-
Total1   Total surface ares compriatng lend area and inland waters.                      tog myle ad female graduate    uss     "trai.ned' or "ces-tii'iod"1 ;urses,
15r-ic. -most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or                   and auxiliary personnel with tra,inting or exp-i-en.
permanetly fur crops, psaturew, market & kitchen gardens or to tie fallow            Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital
beds avil.abl   in pub1lc and pfia'vste general and specialized hospital
GNP per -apita (US$) - GNP' per capit. estimates at current market prices,               and rehabilitation cene~eit;snrighosadesblsv,t
cacltdb  ea  ovrinmthod aso World Bank Atlas (17-75 basis)                     'or custodial and preventive cars.
oe1td.b,a   cvri                       193Per.                        st~ssl        fclre       %o    eurnns           optdfo         mr
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.rcpiz-pyoc4                                                                            i.     %f     u     nt     Cmtd.rm-eg
equivalent of net food supplies availale in country per capita per
.poplation and vitalor1   wc                                                             day; available supplies comprise dbvstic production, imports leass
Population (.id-yr.millionl - As of Juiy first:-    if nor aviabe.xports, and changes in atock;. net supplies exclate animal feed, seeds,
average of two end-year estimatea; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                           quantities used in food process,ing and losses in distribution; r-
quirements were estimated by, FAO based on ploysiologica1 needs, for
Population,d...nity - par wauare k. - Hid-year population per square kilo-               normal activity and healt'h cons.idering onvironmental temperature,
vater (100 hectar...) of total area,.                                                  body weights, age and sex distributions of populatlion, and allowing
Population d ...ity, - par  pu.re tka of_ _ric. lend - Computed a   bove. for            10% for waste at household level.
ag,!'cultura1 land only.                                                             Per capita splyof protein (grams per day) - Pcotsin con tent of per
capita net suppy of food par day; net supply of food is defined as
,ClLtnV,  rt,uownd                                            bove; requirements for all coutries established by USDA Economic
Crude birth rote Per th..d- Annual live births per thousand of mid-                      Resea.rch Services providts for a minimum allowace of 60 gram   of totl1
year populatlons ten-year aritthotic averges ending in 1960 and 1970.                  protein per day, and 20 grsn   of animal and pu.Lse protei, Si         I-,, .
and five-year -avrge ending in 1975 for most re..est e.inaite,                         gram  should be ania1 protein; these ,tandards are lowe.r than those
Crude death rat. per thousand - Asn-ua d.ath. per thousand of mid-pear                  of 75 gram   of total protein and 23 gron    faimlpoen          sa    vr
population:, te!n-year arittosetic ave-aee ending in 1960 sod 1970, and                age for the  sorld, proposed by FAO in t.he Third World Food Survy.
five-year -verage ending in 1975 for soar recet estimate.                           Per, capita protein suplfomaimal and pulse - Protein suppliy of food
Infant mortaLity rate flrth.u) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of              derived from animals andpules in grams per day.
age per thousand Live births,                                                             ra.te  thra         -- An-ual deaths per thoumand in age group
Life   P expctncy at birth lyre)  Average nasher of years of life remaiing                          to Br.  cide inthis age group;,ugse         sa    niao
atbirth; usua lly five-year averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for                of malnutrition.
develIoping tosstrie..
r-sa reproduction rate - Average somber of Live daughtera. a woman wilt                Education
best in her normal reproductive period if she   p.serinc..a present age-            AdjusFed enrollment ratio __i- iMar   shool-Eo1        mn  of all agesa
aP..cIfit fertility rae;usually five.-year avarags ending in 1960,                    pretge or primary schoolag        population   includes rhildren aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countrie.                                                 6-1  years but adjusted for different lengthe of primary education;
Poultfs  greu  rat  t%) -       Iog   Campom  annuaL growth rates of nid-            for coutries with universal education, enrolment may exceed 100%
year poulton for 190-601960- 0, md1970-75.                                             since som  pupils aer belo   oravet         ficlsholg.
Pooulatiotrh grO  gth       -   b-   - Coptdliegothrt               f totl                Iust.d serollment ratio - seconarehool - Computed as above; sec-
rete(5) uron.     urbne likea ma    h rafete  tompale              ondary education requires at least fou   years of approved primary
poplation; datafferec.ntrdSiton     ofubnamemyafc              opr-instruction; provides general,, vecational or teacher training instruc-
Urban  o ulation (%of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-                  tions for pupils of 12 to 17 Yesrs of age; corepondence courses are
f7rnt d7 inhit~ioneof -ban areas nay affect comparability of data                     generally excluded.
amang countries.                                                                     Yers of schooling providsd (first and second levels) - Total years of
Ag~pgur~~gcep)  Cilden(0-1  eas),wokin-ae  l~-tyeas)               shooirng; at secondary lee,vocational instr,stion may be partially
yearsutre~&     nt     anidr-(0as     yar) wofk       -.(5-4y.aor completely excluded.
an   rtr-   b5y.r o- ver) aspercentages o    mid-year population.             Vocational enrollment (% of sec.ndawY) - 'Vocational institutions include
ratiooigo    -Rtoopouainudr1en65edoetotechnical, industrial or other programs which operate independently
U.n.i.d if~e'37ruh6.or aso departments of secondary institutions .
9noc     t:- Ratio of populevion under 15 and 65 and over                 ttlt        rac rte (   - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
to th      rforce.     age group of 15-6h years.
Family Planning - accertors (cWuative, thou) - Cumulative number of                      percentage of tota1 adult population aged 15 years and over.
en,ceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national fenily                   usn
planning program since inception.                                                                                  Average
Family planning - users (% of rmaried womn)) - Percentages of marrisd                  Fora.npor -m a   vergeS) - Aegenumber of persons per room in oc-
women of chi.ld,-bearing age (15-44I years,) who use birth-control de-                  i1d6sIetoawlim                 nurnaes;wligsxcdeo-
vic:. to all married women In same age group,                                          permanent stro mtre aBnd unoccupied parts.
Opp  id    welings without pip d water (%) - Occupied conventional
bu.WIrmnt                                                                                dse.lig   Inubn     and rur'al areas without inside or outside piped
- Ecnomiallyantie prson, inludig            wter fclties as percentage of all oupied dwellings.
armed    Crces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, eta.;Acesieltriy(5oal                                  elng)-C       vcinldwlns
definitinon in -variou, countries are not comparable,                                  with electrifity in living quarters as percent of total d-a11ings
labor force In agriculture (%W       giutrllbrfre(nfrig                                  in urban and rural areas.
frsr,hnigadpAgricuntaur                 f oal laborfoc(i  farce.g            hrldelnscnetd to electricity (%) - Computed an above for
fo-r,hnigadfishing)                                                              ruralt"oftal1Lrfrc..  dwllng   ol..
1$-ifd~         fI    rfre     - Unemployed are usually defined ae persons             b;rP%       t         ~
who oreableaind,w    2ingidto take a job, out of a job on a given day,no                    to
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum                      Cpsmt-             a   hupp     -Al     peofrcirsoradobo-
period not exceeding one Keek; may not be comparable betweon con                        asst    gen~era& E  pubicler  poue       of populaion;    f excldes  brl-d
tries due to difforent definitions of unemployed and source of data,                   costadt receirsl pbin counrie ahund in yersopuneisrtionj xl  des  radio
e.g,5wn  Imuryent. Ofiesaitc,sapesres                  osployU5.sts van in effect; dtat for recent years may not be com,parablis since
ployant nsurnce,most countries abolished licmninig.
idtNi!-Percentage of private I-am            (both in cash sod kind;                       r     ($  thou  o .) - P.asseger cars comprise motor cars sa-t-
374eoo    n  riclke  acZf, Psa."r aol,                                         a..'than, ass ght parsons; excludes ambulances, hearses and mili-
housholds,                                                                             tary vehicles.
Slat itnr(OWU   Rr cp)- Annual consumption of industrial, con-
-A-f~~        ik  - Percentages of land ow,es                                              anYit  :na   privats olectricitae in kilowtt hours per capita;
en   ed po   c) end                toywealh-                   gnerLly base d on prods:tion data, without allwoance for losses In
POOIW, 17P  f l-d Mmmgexi.Js but allcowing for importe an                                  esprte of electricity.
lp   )-Per capita annua1 consumption in kilograms
- *AiPopulation divided by nuabes of practicing                                     atmtdfadosi             rdcinplus net. isrnsta of new6print,
pkVa1nlan. quali-        a ro a medical school at umiv.ruity level,



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 Pages
Actual                        Projected              1972-    1974-     1975 -194                    97
19Z2      1973      1974        1975     i2       DM        L-A      !n        18 197441975 2
RATIONAL ACCOUTS                                                (Prelim.)
1973 PrAebs and   Wiwig     at                Average Annual Gro-wth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product            10,646     12,415' 13,414       14,471 15,063     23,301      12.5      7.4       8.3              105.2    109,5     116.6
Gains from Tertms of Trade (4-)       116       -       -664      -1,254   -1,422   -3,324       -        -         -                 -5.2     -9.5     -16.6
Gross Domestic Income              1172      T7 5     110       ~    !719,977                    9.1      3.        7,                0.       0.        0.
Import (incl. NfFS)                3,435      4,367    4,634       4,5173   4,996   10,450      16.2     -1.3     14,8                36.2     34.6      52.3
Exports(      '                      JJ_j    -3 961    3.306       3~440    6_,021  12J6j6       9.2      4.1      14.6               25.      26,     ..84,2
Resource Gap                         -664      -406   -1,328      -1,133   -1,005   -3,176      41.1    -14.7       -                -1I0. 4   -8.6     -15.9
Consumption Expenditures           9,017      9,598   10,780      11,434   11,028   14,839       9.3      6,1      4.5                34.2     86.5      74.3
Investment    "(incl. stocks)      2,212      3,230    4,185      4,113     4,030    5,286      37.8    -1.7       4.3                32.7     31,1      26.5
DoesicSainal                   1,629      2,817    2,694       3,037    5,035    8,462      28.8     12.7     18.6                21.0     23.0      42.4
National Savings-i                  1,772     2,914    2,721       2,970    5,027    8,437      23,6      9.2      18.7               21.2     22.5      42.2
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            AnLnual Da-ta at Current Prices.                                                         As Percent of Total
Imports
Grains                             283        444      613         689      540      774      47.5     12.4       1.9                9.0      9.5       3 7
Capital Goods                      762      1,157    1,849       1,909    2,105    5,241      57.0      3.2     18,3                27.0     26.2      24.9
Petroleum Fuel and Minerals        219        313    1,055       1,387    1,249    3,436     125.0    31.5      16.3                15.4     19,1      16.4
Other (Including Raw Mat-erial
,for ExDorts              1,258      2,326    3,335      3,289     5,043   11,561      65.0    -1.4      23.4                48.6    45.2         0
TtlMerch. Imports (c.f)       2,522      4,240   6,852       7,274     8,937  21,012      63.0      6.2      19.3               100.0   100.0     100.0
Exrports
Manufactured Goods               1,485      2,921    4,005       4,307    6,145   18,708      65.0      7.5     27.8                89.8     84.8      91.9
Other Goods                         139       304      455         774       890i  1,653      82.4     70.1     13.4                10.2     15,2       8.1
Total Merrh, 3exports (fob'      1,624      3,225    4,460      5,081     7,035   20,361      67.5    13.9      26.0               100.0    100.0    100.0
Merzhandise Trade Indicos                     Average 1973     -100
Export Pripe Index                78.0      100.0   126.8       117.4     123.2    157.3     26.7     -7.4       5.0
Import Price Index                74.9      100.0   155.5       160.0     168.0   214.4      44.5      2.9       5.0
Terms of Trade Index             104..      100.0    81.5        73.4      73.4     73.3    -11-5    -10.0       0.0
Exports Volume Index              63.8      100.0   109.1       134.2,    177.0   401.4      30.8     23.0      20.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annu al Data at 1973-    Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual- Growth Rates        As Percent of Total1
Agriculture                      3,201      3,500   3,620       3,837     3,373   4,103       6        6         4                 29       29        18
Manufacturing and Mining         2,140      2,883   3,311       3,708     5,783    9,908     24       12        11                  27      28        42
Other Services                   4.368      4J,975  5.59         ~        697     920        1                   14                          3        4
Tal979                     1,5     1240        13,260    16,063  23,301      13        7         9                 100     100       100
PUBLC FIANCEAs Percent of GDP
(Cenraln Roernenpt)               1,701      1,530   1,862       2,199k'   2 5515J 3,870       5       18        12                  15       17       19
Current Epnitu~res              1.359      1,193    1,406       1 704&/k2'    65 2_503        2       21        _                  11       13        1
Budgetary Savings                 342        337      456         495      489    1,367      1-5      -9       30                   4       -4         7
Other Pablic Sector               -          -        --                    -       -         -        -         --                          --
Public Sector Investment          522        443      593         728      746    1,888       7       23       21                   5        6        10
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS -Actual                          Prelim.    Est.     Proj.        DETAIL ON
As % Total Current EpMend.)              1-97 2   1973      1974     _19z5~~   1976~'       PUBLIC SECTOR                  US$ M1illion At 1973 P and ER
Euain18.6                              19.3       17.8      17.5     18.0        IYSM2TRcRAM 6/                  1976     1975    1976    7. of Total 1974-7~6
Other Social Services                     9.1    10.4        9.6       8.8      5.0         Social Sectors                   67       73      64      10.9
Agriculture                               2.4     2.4        2.0       1.8      1.9        Agriculture                      121      187     209      24.6
Other Economic Services                   3.6     3.5        2.3       2.1      2.0         Industry and Mining              41       82      73      9,3
Defense                                 33.9     35.2       41.2     43.0     47.0         Power                             55       44     33       6.6
Administration                          13.9     13.8       12.1      11.5     9.8         Transport and communications     138      416     172     22.2
Transfers to Local Governments           15.1    14.2       14.2      14,6    16.1         Other                            171      197     175     26.4
Other                                    3.4      L.2        0.8       0.7     0.2         Toa    Epndtre                    93     72-8    7-46    rO.
_Total-Cu'rrent Expenditures             10-0,0  100,0      100.0     100.0   1f 00.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-      1965-    1970-    1973-        FINANCING
(Calculated f'rom 3-year averaged data)             1965      1970      l975     1978
Average ICOR                                       7MT         7T          r     -T113           Public Se-ctor Savings       456      495     489      70.3
Import Elasticity                                   0.8        2,6       1,1      1.8            Program aid counterpart       sa       38      41       6.8
?Nrg'inal Domestic Savings Rate                    11.3       21.3      16,6    27.2             For-eign Project Ai           79      195     216     22.9
MarginLal National Savings Rate                    17.9       21.7      18.8    24.6             Total Financing              593      728     746     100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (l19 73 -       Prices & Exc. Rates)
OU~U  E  OKRIn Millions                       %of Total             97   -7          In U,.Dolas          Percent of Avermge          1  ~-7
192   1 74     1 7         9 74    Grow-th Rate         1972       1974        1972       1974       Growth Rate
Agzxiculture                      5.3         5.6     50.6      48,2          2.8               604        646         66          60           3.4
Manufacturing and Mining          1.5         2,1     14.2       17.8        18.3             1,189      1,577        130         147          15.1
Other Sectors                     3.7         3.9     35.2      34.0          2.7             1,181      1,423        129         132           9.8
Total                           TJS            t5                                               916      1,076        100         100           0,4
includes government, corporate and private non-dlorporate savings,.L                                     eie     ugt
J Includes domestic savings, net, factor incomes from abroad and transfers from abroad.              diBuudgtt
3/   Excludes exports not clImared through customs, such as sales of goods to                           k/  General Budget and Economic Development Special Account.
military forces oversleas.
9/6/76



rag. 4 of 4 ?ig.s
IA= O PfI                   -L *16W AM
(owet* In .1211*1     or u.E. eiAA=v -m 0w9'i      plw)ee
Avg, Anru I
IY72       1             1974                                                    lrth -t. 197                                                 (C5
SUIKARY BALANCE OF PAY1SITS
Eport. (incl. NFS)                       2,075       3,962       5,125        56.47        8,100         10,241      12,9M        16,104       19,603      23,451                    26.5
2.,prts (incl.                           2,577       4,368       7,210        7,457        9 000         11,093     13 76         16 782      20389        23JJ4I                    21.5
Resourrce 13alne( I-H)                                -0          2           110W-9
rnterest (net)                            -106        -123        -141         -258         -372           -457       -540          -622         -696        *767                    19.8
Other Factor Inco-   (net)                 67           30         -19          -70          -38             39         60            90           89          99
t                                    170         190         222          224          160            170       ,   -          135         195          2051L                  -I.S
VP t                Von  uinrmta   r       71t     co1w      -309            -Bs                  -       -   I ,1; 02-!               5            ,      ,a -;                    -12.2
Private Direct Tnveltnt                     74         137          104          42            85           200         220          240          260         280                    37.0
Orrscial Capital Wants                      -           -            -           -             -             -           -                         -                                  -
Public 1XT loanm1'
Disburs-ezrts                            736         757       1,156        1,666        1,764          2,0 8      2,240         2,325        2,287       2,242                     4.8
-Aeortfa.tion                            289          336         391          368 -        58S            68         809           840         904       1.,039                    18.9
,e.t  tburs.t.                              47                       75       1,318         17             .W                                   1,383       1,203                    -1.5
Other H1LT Loans
Disbursenents                             49          94          174          85           93            111        134           154          172         188                    14.1
-Aortiaeion                                10          15          23           28           39             63         76            95         110          132                    29.5
5iet Disburse--ents                                     79 151                   57            54            48          58           59           62          56                    -0.4
2/          3/Actral
27amtal ?r-nsactinns n.e.i.                 30         -12        1,018         990          -68                                                        A 1971  I7          3        1974
Decrease in Reserves                      -159        -340         -15        -493          -100                           V            1,796      2,228     2,770     3,314        4,031
-.Il-r 12: LWIs DCif3fJS
t. .r.1  .r.si !3rint-like               -           -           -            -            -            Ilteret on Public Debt          64        93        104       140          196
Repayment. on Public Debt      211        250       247        276         360
jb,W&     u-ns                                                                                            Total Public Debt Service      275        342       351        415         556
r9RO                                      85          73         D9        NO                            Other Debt Service (Dwt)        11         22        23        31.          54
TIA                                        7          26          -         :                            Total Debt Service (net)       286        364       374       446          610
ADB                                       81          68          .       :s2
'      ,er  :1t '. .-rral                 -           -           -          .                         bLrden on 5xport     ninp  ()
n.vernrer.-                             305          505        4.3       290
>rppl-rrs                                242          86        *          s-3                           Public Debt Service           22.5       23,1      16.9       10.5        10.8
s.av.:   Gnsltutions                    12          80        yc7       23                             Total Debt Service            23.4       24.6      18.0       11.3        11.8
1-          -           9          -                           TDSaDirect Invest.      Inc.  24.2       25.6      20.0       12.7        13,7
Pur1i, .   ,ns n.e.i.
?otao         H&IT 24^1-                   73Z         839 l,e34.         1,2g9                          Average Term of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1974                      Tnt. aa S Prior TYer IOD       4.3        5.2       4 7        5.1         5.9
KXTERNAL DEBT                                   Di.burV                      Percent                         Abort. a. S Prior Y.    W      14.3      14,0       11.1      10.0         10.9
122or3 Punk
IDA                                               78.3                        1.9                       I13D Debt Out. & Di.bursed        9.'       40.2      94.7      139,8       223.8
ADB                                              113.0                        2.8                         "   a  S Public Debt O1D        0.6        1,8       3.4        4.2         5.6
lovern.ents                                    1,697 3                       42.1                             as 5 Public Debt Service     0.7       0.7        1.9       3.0          3 5
Sunnl;er.-                                     1,250.6                       31.0
Financial Institutions                           648.5                       16.1                        IDA Debt Out. & Disbuweed        26.7      39.8       47.1      56.5         78.3
Sonds                                             19.0                        0.5                        I0 as S Public Debt O4D           1.5       1.8        1.7       1.8          1.9
Public Dbts n.e.i                                                                                         " a   5 Public Debt Service      0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1          0.1
Total Public H&LT Debt                         4,030.6                      100.0
Other MaLT Debts                                 396.0
Sh.rt-ta-n Debt 4/                               971.0
1/  SOURCE:   IBRD- Lo-ne of HKt-rlty one year end above, Including    o-rc-tl bank borrowing.
2/  Includ* $580 million borrod by the banking cy.te-.
3/  lnclude ohort terr capital inflows of $760 million
41  SOURCE:   Korean authorities
Septmber 6, 1976



ANNEX Lt
Page 1 of 10 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1976)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower            Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven loans and credits fully disbursed                   153.8    72.1
600    1969   ADC                   Irrigation             45.0              .6
151    1969   Republic of Korea     Education                      14.8      .5
669    1970   Republic &f.Korea     Railways               40.0              .5
769    1971   Republic of Korea     Highways               54.5             1.2
795    1972   ADC                   Irrigation             33.0            13.9
863    1972   Republic of Korea     Railways               40.0             1.7
905    1973   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.          40.0              .5
906 &  1973   Republic of Korea     Education II           23.0    20.0    36.4
394
917    1973   Republic of Korea     Ports                  80.0            59.6
942    1973   Republic of Korea     Seeds Production        7.0             5.9
953    1974   Republic of Korea     Tourism                25.0            19.1
956    1974   Republic of Korea     Highways II            47.0             2.3
994    1974   AFDC                  Agriculture            13.0            12.3
1070    1975   Republic of Korea     Secondary Cities       15.0            14.4
1095    1975   KDB                   Dev. Fin. Co.          60.0            21.5
1096    1975   Republic of Korea     Third Education        22.5            22.5
1101    1975   Republic of Korea     Fifth Railway         100.0            59.8
1145    1975   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.          55.0            29.1
1175    1975   MIB                   Dev. Fin. Co.          30.0            23.1
1193 /a 1976   Republic of Korea     Second Integrated      15.0            15.0
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of Korea     Third Highway          900            89.9
1216 & 1976    Republic of Korea     Rural Infra-           60.0            58.5
1218-T                                 structure
1219    1976   Republic of Korea     Program Loan II        75.0            49.6
1319 /b 1976   ADC                   Irrigation (Miiho I)   29.0            29.0
1328 /a 1976   Republic of Korea     Agricultural Credit    20.0            20.0
Total                                           1,172.8    106.9   586.9
of which has been repaid                         28.1       .7
Total now outstanding                           1,144.7    106.2
Amount sold                   2.0
of which has been repaid    1.0                   1.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,143.7    106.2
(prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                                  573.0    13.9   586.9
/a 'Not yet effective.
lb I)eclared effective on October 21, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1976)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor               Type of Business              Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                  Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.        Textiles                       1.4    0.3     1.7
1970   Atlas Paper           Pulp and Paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0 /a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development      -     0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                  Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Develoment       -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products           16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development     5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.    Tourism                        2.7    0.7    3.4
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development      -     0.4    0.4
1976   Chongju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                          5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                  Development Financing         17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products           10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,      Electronic Products                   0.2    0.2
Ltd.
1977   KDFC                  Development Financing                 0.3    0.3
Total gross commitment                              84.3   13.4   97.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             26.9     0.9   27.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                  57.4    12.5   69.9
Total undisbursed                                  30.4     4.3   34.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 600     Pyongtaek Kumgang Irrigation Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of May 23, 1969; Effective Date:  May 25, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project includes irrigation for about 31,000 ha, (4,000 ha
less than expected at appraisal), improvement of drainage' and roads, con-
solidation of paddy fields, benching of upland and tidal land reclamation.
Construction was delayed by a reorganization of the executing agency and
a delay in hiring consultants. Cost considerations have led to the exclu-
sion of about 4,000 ha of land from the project. Costs have risen from
US$90 million at appraisal to about US$130 million largely because of the
increased costs of right-of-way, engineering, administration and land con-
solidation. Recent increases in the price of rice will partially offset
the effects of higher costs and reduced irrigable area. The economic rate
of return is now estimated to be about 10 percent, compared with the
appraisal estimate of 14 percent. Construction has been completed.
Credit No. 151   First Education Project; US$14.8 Million Credit of
June 4, 1969; Effective Date: May 25, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
The Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commercial and agricultural schools, 5 post-secondary higher
schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b) 26 man-
years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fellowships
to support the development of agricultural and technical education. All
civil works, equipment and furniture procurement, technical assistance
and fellowships included in the Project have been completed. The total
project cost is estimated to remain about 3 percent below the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 669     Third Railway Project; US$40.0 Million Loan, US$15.0
Credit No. 183   Million Credit of May 14, 1970; Effective Date:
September 11, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase
of freight cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua--
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project enecution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
maintenance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the procurement of some micro-wave equipment which hzd to be
retendered, and delivery is now expected in October 1976. The Closing
Date has been extended by a year to December 31, 1976 to provide adequate
time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 769     First Highway Project; US$54.5 Million Loan of June 29,
1971; Effective Date:  December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973,
at a final cost of about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasi-
bility studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km
and 900 km of national highways, respectively.  A study of road maintenance
and the establishment of a pilot maintenance organization forned the basis
of the creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which
is being carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date
has been extended by 13 months to permit completion of procurement of
highway maintenance equipment, and staff training.
Loan No. 795     Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283   and US$15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
The Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with reliable irrigation and crop diversifica-
tion. Also, there will be increased production of high value crops such as
fruits and winter vegetables. The delay was caused mainly by increased
costs due largely to price escalation and design modification. The cost
increases will be partially compensated for by benefits attributable to the
enlargement of the area to be irrigated by about 1,400 ha; and the Agricul-
tural Development Corporation (ADC) plans to reduce costs by constructing
only canals, roads and drainage systems for contour furrow irrigation on
all lands exceeding 2 percent slope. Also the Bank has begun monitoring
construction costs on the civil works contracts on a monthly basis.
Loan No. 863     Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have
been committed, and nearly 95 percent already disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan No. 905     Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date:  September 10, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 906     Second Education Project; US$23.0 MIillion Loan and
Credit No. 394   US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to 85 educa-
tional institutions at secondary, post secondary and university levels.
It also includes preinvestment studies on health and management education.
After three years of implementation, project execution is now about 12
months behind schedule. The Government is taking steps to overcome the
source of delay. All equipment lists have been approved; tenders have
been made for US$28 million, contracts have been awarded for US$11 mil-
lion. Total project cost remains at $75.8 million, about 8 percent
above the appraisal estimates. Disbursements are expected to reach US$20
million by the end of FY77. Covenant requirements under the Development
Credit Agreement are being met. The project is now expected to be com-
pleted by mid-1978, which requires an extension of the Closing Date.
Loan No. 917     Ports Project; US$80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment at
Busan and Mukho. The Project is progressing satisfactorily. Preparation
of contract documents for all nine civil works contracts has been completed
and five have been awarded. Two of the five equipment contracts have also
been awarded. Three of the civil works contracts are on schedule while two
are slightly behind schedule; all are expected to be completed on time.
The Government signed a Loan Agreement, on March 8, 1976, with the Saudi
Fund for Development, which will provide US$35 million equivalent for this
Project. The Government established on March 13, 1976 the Korea Port
Authority, and key management appointments have already been made. Dis-
bursement is at present around 24 percent of the total loan.
Loan No. 942     Seeds Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December
31, 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed pro-
duction; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irriga-
tion and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
legislative and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and estab-
lishing an "Office for Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Preliminary esti-
mates suggest that Project costs would be considerably higher than envis-
aged at appraisal. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected at
appraisal but is expected to improve soon.
Loan No. 953
Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multi-purpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 kms of roads, infrastructure including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; a school
for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the development
of tourism on Cheju Island.  Final design for almost all Project components
is complete and several contracts have been awarded. Considerable efforts
are being made by the newly established Kyongju Tourism Agency to promote
hotel investors interest in the resort area. Over 20 percent of the loan
has been disbursed and disbursements are expected to accelerate in the
months ahead.
Loan No. 956     Second Highway Project; US$47.0 Million Loan of January
25, 1974; Effective>Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction (chiefly
on new alignments) of about 130 kms and paving (largely on existing align-
ments) of approximately 634 kms of national highways were completed on
schedule and the highways opened to traffic in October 1975. Feasibility
studies for future prGjects of about 1,000 kms of road were started in
August 1975 and will be followed by detailed engineering, which is expected
to be completed early in 1977. Delay occurred in setting up a new nation-
wide highway maintenance organization but the organization has now been
established in accordance with decrees published in June 1975. Most of the
maintenance offices have been constructed and staffed and procurement of
the necessary equipment is in progress. Disbursement is around 95 percent
oL the Loan.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of commer-
cial crops for export with efficient hygienic processing facilities using
land that is presently idle or under-utilized. It comprises: (a) on-farm
development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (b) construction
of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak mushrooms,
mushrooms and fruits, and (c) technical assistance including training of
staff, services of consultants, etc. As the current investor demand for
the project processing facilities is less than projected, implementation
of the Project as a whole is likely to be delayed.
Loan No. 1070     Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an
organizational framework for regional investment, planning and develop-
ment and the improvement of working and living conditions in the secondary
cities of the less developed Gwangju region. The main elements of the
Project are: (a) housipg sites and services in the cities of Yeosu, Mogpo
and Gwangju (370,384 m ); Sb) a fishery harbor complex with industrial
processing zon2 (215,385 m ) in Yeosu; (c) a city market in Suncheon
City (33,160 m ); and (d) access roads in Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km). It
also provides technical assistance to strengthen regional planning and
development, to improve the utilization of existing water supply systems
in the four cities, to assist the management and operation of the fishery
complex and to carry out feasibility studies of project proposals identi-
fied under the UNDP-financed Phase II Regional Study. Project implementa-
tion is roughly a year behind the appraisal schedule largely because of
delays in establishing the Gw;angju Regional Development Unit. However,
progress has been improving and is considered satisfactory.
Loan No. 1095    Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 Million Loan of
of March 31, 1975; Effective Date:   June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project provided funds to KDB to make subloans to finance
direct imports for subprojects principally in the manufacturing and trans-
portation sectors. Almost the full amount has already been committed to
finance 31 subprojects, ahead of the time estimated at appraisal. Dis-
bursements now amount to about two thirds of the loan amount, also ahead
of the original estimate. KDB's performance in using the loan has been
highly satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1096     Third Education Project; US$22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project includes assistance for extensions and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes under the Office
of Labor Affairs (OLA). After 15 months of execution, project implementa-
tion is about three months behind schedule but considerable progress has
been made. Site layouts and sketch plans have been acquired. Remaining
sketch plans will be completed by November 1976 and construction will begin
at ten institutions in 1977.   Progress in equipment procurement is satis-
factory. Both MOE and OLA project units are functioning satisfactorily and
disbursements are expected to be made on schedule.
Loan No. 1101     Fifth Railway Project; US$100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The Project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and its financial
recovery. The main components of the Project are: an increase in station
and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisition of rolling
stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair facilities;
track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion of electri-
fication of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous items. Con-
tracts, financed by the Loan, have been signed for procurement of passenger
and freight cars, wheel sets, rail, bridge girders and spares for coaches
and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about US$57.6 million equiv-
alent. Electrification of industrial lines and the Seoul Suburban system
has been virtually completed. Forty-two percent of the loan proceeds have
already been disbursed. In connection with this loan, the Government under-
took to formulate a financial recovery plan for KNR and to discuss it with
the Bank. A mission which visited Korea in October discussed this matter
with the authorities concerned.
Loan No. 1145     Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Loan will cover about half the KDFC's foreign exchange
requirements through the end of 1977. It will be used to finance direct
imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods and of civil works. Disbursements are
proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); US$30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Ef-fective Date:  January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The Project provides funds to MI3 to make sub-loans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over the next two years. The
Project is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are at present over
20 percent of the total loan.
Loan No. 1193     Second Integrated Dairy Development Project; /1
US$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450
new dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of
the First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the
expansion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their
production, the establishment of two milk centers and fifty small milk
cooling units and the constrdLtion of a frozen milk products plant at
Yeongnam; (d) and the expansion of technical services for both farm
development and milk processing.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; US$90.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignment, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totalling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km
of national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering.
Bids have been called for all construction and paving contracts, in accord-
ance with the Bank's procedures of international competitive bidding.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; US$60.0 Million Loan
Loan No. 1218T   of which US$40.0 Million Third Window;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project includes about 62 minor irrigation, 29 upland
reclamation, 11,000 fuelwood, 900 roads and bridges, 4,200 water supply,
and 2,700 rural electrification subprojects. Technical assistance is
provided for upland reclamation and improvements to hydrologic services.
Special evaluation studies are also included. Project implementation has
started well and the rate of progress, costs and disbursements are all
close to appraisal estimates. The monitoring and reporting systems have
also been established and are functioning well.
/1 Loan signed on June 4, 1976; not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1219.    Second Program Loan; US$75.0 Million Loan of
March 3, 1976; Effective Date:   June 9, 1976;
Closing Date: May 1, 1977
The principal aim of the Loan is to help meet the foreign exchange
reauirements for the import into the Republic of Korea, by the private sector,
of essential capital and intermediate goods. A third of the Loan has already
been disbursed.
Loan No. 1319     Miho Watershed Area Development Project; US$29.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1976; Effective Date:   October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The aim of the project is to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes on about 12,665 ha, and to benefit directly some 10,400 farm
families. The project consists of: (a) the construction of dams and canals
to irrigate 8,315 ha; (b) the conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to
irrigate paddy fields; (c) land consolidation on 4,600 ha of irrigated and
non-irrigated land; (d) the development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland
crops and 550 ha for orchards; (e) upland reclamation and bench-terracing of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land; (f) the improvement of about 80 km
of river channels; (g) the construction of about 150 km of village access
roads; (h) aerial photography, surveys and mapping; and (i) provision for
technical assistance, procurement of vehicles and a feasibility study for
a second-stage project of the Miho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328     Second Agricultural Credit Project; /1
US$20.0 Million Loan of September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides medium and long-term loans through the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) to about 7,900 farmers
for (a) the establishment of about 2,100 ha of apple orchards; (b) the
construction and equipping of improved silkworm rearing houses including
improvement of existing mulberry plantings; (c) sprinkler irrigation to
producing orchards of 2 ha or more; (d) the construction and equipping of
green houses for vegetable production; and (e) the construction of on-farm
fruit storage facilities.
/1 Loan signed October 12, 1976, not yet effective.



ANNEX III
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Second Korea Development Bank Project
Borrower:               Korea Development Bank (KDB)
Guarantor:              Republic of Korea
Amount:                 $82.5 million
Terms,                  Part of the Loan ($75.0 million) would be used
by KDB for its normal lending operations and
would be repaid in accordance with a schedule
which would conform substantially to the aggre-
gate of the amortization schedules of sub-loans
made out of such part of the Loan; the maximum
repayment period would be 17 years, including
3 years of grace.  The remainder of the proposed
loan ($7.5 million) would be relent by KDB to
its subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing
Corporation, Ltd. for the purpose of its leasing
operations, and would be repaid through KDB in
15 years, including 1 year of grace. Interest
would be at 8.7 percent per annum.
Purpose:                $75.0 million of the proposed loan would be
used by KDB to make sub-loans aind investments
to finance direct imports for industrial sub-
projects during the period 1977-78; the
remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, would be
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary
KILC, which would use these funds to acquire
machinery, equipment, facilities or other
property to be leased to investment enterprises,
during the same period, for use in its leasing
operations.
Estimated                        Calendar Year       US$ Million
Disbursements:
1977                5.6
1978               41.9
1979               33.5
1980                1.5
Appraisal Report: No. 1225-KO, dated September 30, 1976.



IBRD 10375
12             ' P.                          129                APRIL 1973
Sea RfSgh                                                                                    e
CH NA   ,N                  O  R T H     K O   R E A                  t
Japon        |                                                                    East        Sea
N KOREA
REP OF
KOREA -JAPAN               Panmurj    ,Rm                                                                 38- -
Yellow            JPN2
Sea                       -38&                  GY    NG GI J      huncnGANG      WEON    \
Eaost                   c ea n
Chna n eo eukho
125'                  126'                                 S,mcheog
rche                                                    eonrl Ad o gse  2n
Ye//ow       Seau
237'
3enbseong                           7      GY    ON
i                    Mogo;   -                 <          'l 9 n-tChungConeonanp
/J  Nogdong      Singeum
M_npo                                     Primary roads
" .  S.                                             -., Railways
e,                       r                      Railways underoconstructon
+                                           Airports
j L Rivers
C= Special cities
.-- Provincial baundaries
Jeju 4                                          -Internationol boundaries
E J U )                           ,2,0,4p,06,0, 8,0        10,0 i?0  14,0 I60
(  g  /  -/KILOMETERS,
20                             40      60 0     eo       00
Se,pngM                                                        E S -
125'  6'                      2'                      26                    129



