CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1338 - KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second KDB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated December 23, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a statutory body established and operating under
the laws of the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Guarantor).


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "KILC" means the Korea Industrial Leasing Company Ltd.,
a subsidiary of the Borrower operating pursuant to the Leasing
Industry Promotion Law No. 2664 dated December 31, 1973, as
amended, or any successor thereto.
(b) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of Part A of the Loan to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (b)
of this Agreement.


﻿-3
(c) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
Part A of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project.
(d) "Lease Agreement" means an agreement entered into or pro-
posed to be entered into between KILC and an Investment Enterprise
by which KILC will lease to such Investment Enterprise machinery,
equipment, facilities or other property acquired with the proceeds
of Part B of the Loan.
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise (i) to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment; or (ii) with which
KILC has entered into or proposes to enter into a Lease Agreement.
(f) "Investment Project" means (i) a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment from the Borrower or (ii)
the acquisition by KILC of machinery, equipment, facilities or
other property to be leased to an Investment Enterprise under a
Lease Agreement.
(g) "Part A of the Loan" means that portion of the proceeds
of the Loan equal to $75,000,000 to be withdrawn from time to time
by the Borrower for the purpose of making sub-loans and investments.
(h) "Part B of the Loan" means that portion of the proceeds
of the Loan equal to $7,500,000 to be relent by the Borrower to
KILC in accordance with Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be en-
tered into between the Borrower and KILC pursuant to Section 2.02
(a) of this Agreement.
(j) "W." and "Won" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(k) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Guarantor.
(1) "Act" means the Korea Development Bank Act of the Guar-
antor dated December 30, 1953, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(m) "Decree" means the Enforcement Decree of the Korea Devel-
opment Bank Act, enacted on January 18, 1954 by Presidential Decree
No. 858, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(n) "By-laws" means the By-laws of the Korea Development Bank
dated February 16, 1954, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(o) "Operating Manuals" means the Operating Manuals of the
Korea Development Bank, dated April 1, 1954, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
(p) "Share-holding Act" means the Korea Development Bank Share-
holding Act, dated August 4, 1969, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
01


﻿*)                                     -5-
(q) "Enforcement Decree No. 1" means the Enforcement Decree
of the Korea Development Bank Share-holding Act, enacted on Octo-
ber 6, 1969, by Presidential Decree No. 4100, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
(r) "Special Act" means the Special Measures Act Governing
Overdue Loans of Banking Institutions, dated August 3, 1966, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(s) "Enforcement Decree No. 2" means the Enforcement Decree
of the Special Measures Act Governing Overdue Loans of Banking
Institutions, enacted on August 12, 1966, by Presidential Decree
No. 2702, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(t) "R.C. Decree" means the Readjustment Corporation Decree
enacted on February 20, 1962, by Cabinet Decree No. 459, as amended
to the date of this Agreement.
(u) "Policy Statement" means the statement of lending and
investments policy approved by the Board of Executive Directors
of the Borrower on April 4, 1975, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(v) "Corporation" means the Readjustment Corporation estab-
lished pursuant to Article 53 (iii) of the Act.
(w) "Subsidiary" means any company or a statutory body of
which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or other propri-
etary interest is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower


﻿-6-
or by any one or more subaidiaries of the Borrower or by the Bor-
rower and one or more of its subs(diaries, provided, however, that
for the purposes of Sections 3.05, 4.03 and 4.06 of this Agreement
"subsidiary" shall be deemed to mean only the Corporation or KILC.
(x) "Guarantee Release Arrangement" means the arrangement en-
tered into by the Guarantor on March 31, 1975 with respect to the
potential risks arising as a result of KDB's issuance of direct or in-
direct external repayment guarantees on forzign loans to Government-
Invested Enterprises and Designated Enterprises, as such terms are
defined in the. said Guarantee Release Arrangement.
(y) "First Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement dated
March 31, 1975, as the same may be amended from time to time, en-
tered into between the Bank and the Borrower in connection with
the First KDB Project. And
(z) "First Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee agree-
ment dated March 31, 1975, as the same may be amended from time
to time, entered into between the Guarantor and the Bank in con-
nection with the First KDB Project.


﻿-7
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two mil-
lion five hundred thousand dollars ($82,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to KILC, out of
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time to time by the Bor-
rover, an amount equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000) (hereinafter called Part B of the Loan) for
the purpose of acquiring machinery, equipment, facilities or other
property to be leased to Investment Enterprises, under a subsidi-
ary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
KILC on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank and which, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall
include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿8 -                                  '8
.ation 2.03. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Loan Account (i) for amounts expended
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be expended) by the Borrower
for an Investment Project, to finance the reasonable foreign-cur-
rency cost of directly imported goods and services required for
the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested, provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made
unless the sub-loan or investment to be made by the Borrower shall
have been approved by the Bank or the sub-loan to be made by the
Borrower shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and (ii) for
amounts expended (or, if the Bank shall r' agree, to be expended)
by KILC to finance (A) the reasonab1   oreign currency cost of
directly imported machinery, equipme.., facilities and other pro-
erty to be leased by KILC or (B) 60% (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component) of the reasonable cost of the same items
when locally procured, provided, however, that no withdrawal shall
be made in respect of any Lease Agreement unless such Lease Agree-
ment shall have been approved by the Borrower.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $1,500,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior
Loan for such Investment Project.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures


﻿-9-
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan sub-
ject to the Bank's approval or in respect of an investment, if
such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this
Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or in-
vestment the application and information required by Section 2.04
(a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan or a Lease
Agreement, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan
or such Lease Agreement the request and information required by
Section 2.04 (b).
Section 2.04. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of
the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan or a Lease Agreement shall contain (i) a summary description
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of


﻿-10-
such free-limit sub-loan (including the schedule of amortization
therefor) or such Lease Agreement.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1978.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.r,. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and sevei.y Aundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Cection 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Sectir- 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of Part A of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as
the said Part A of Schedule 1 shall be amended from time to time
by the Bank to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant


﻿- 11 -
part substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of repayment to the Bank
in respect of investments, which have been approved or authorized
for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.03 of this
Agreement and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to
Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made by
the Borrower under Section 2.10 of this Agreement; provided that
repayments due hereunder shall be made on June 15 and December 15
in each year. Such amendments of said Part A of Schedule 1 shall
include' amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if
necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each in-
vestment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
urless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall
not extend beyond 17 years, including a grace period of 3 years,
from the date of approval by the Bank of such sub-loan or invest-
ment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by
the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect there-
of, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or
more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or ap-
proximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
. .


﻿-12-
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an in-
vestment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned
or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower
shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the amount with-
drawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or invest-
ment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturi-
ty or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the out-
standing amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so
repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment, pro
rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts
to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 2.11. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
Part B of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
the Republic of Korea as will contribute to the economic and social
development of the country. The Project consists in the financing
(i) directly by the Borrower, of specific development projects
through loans to and investments in enterprises in the Republic of
Korea, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower,
and (ii) through KILC, of the acquisition of machinery, equipment,
facilities and other property to be leased to enterprises in the
Republic of Korea, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of
KILC.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial stan-
dards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and
in accordance with the Act, the Decree, the Operating Manuals and
the Policy Statement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower will obtain, or cause
KILC to obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise
to which the Borrower has made a sub-loan, or in which the Borrower
has made an investment, or with which KILC has entered into a Lease
Agreement, or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower (or KILC), in-
cluding, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it
e


﻿shall be appropriate in the case of any investment or Lease Agree-
ment, the right of the Borrower (or KILC) to: (i) require the In-
vestment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain ade-
quate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, .in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the In-
vestment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with repre-
sentatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the In-
vestment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace
or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank
or the Borrower (or KILC) shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial con-
dition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate


﻿*                           -15 -
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of
the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower (or KILC).
(b) The Borrower shall exercise or cause KILC to exercise
its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such manner
as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower (or
KILC), (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish or cause KILC to fur-
nish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the
sub-loans, investments and lease agreements.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
wise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiv-
ing any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause each of its Subsidiaries
to observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to
the extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidi-
ary.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause KILC
to maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and KILC.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain separate accounts with re-
spect to loans and investments made on the Guarantor's behalf for
projects selected by the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Borrower and KILC shall: (i) have their re-
spective accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each fis-
cal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any
case not later than five months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their respective financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other in-
formation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and KILC and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿*                         -17-
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and,interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsid-
iary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as se-
curity for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/
equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of this


﻿-.8-
Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take ali such reason-
able action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and out-
standing pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿-19 -
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Won debt payable in foreign currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of ex-
change at which such foreign currency is, at the time of such val-
uation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and sub-
sidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary, and (ii) any debts guaranteed by the Borrower pursuant
to the Act, the Decree or the Guarantee Release Arrangement.
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests
of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the Bor-
rower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take and cause KILC to take
such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to pro-
tect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the
rates of exchange between the currencies (including Won) used in
its lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through


﻿-20-
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsid-
iaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿-21 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank;
Amendment to the First Loan Agreement
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual in-
struments, or any security for an, such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act, the Decree,
the By-laws, Operating Manuals, Share-holding Act, Enforcement
Decree No. 1, Special Act, Enforcement Decree No. 2, or R.C. Decree
which will materially and adversely affect the financial condition
or operations of the Borrower or KILC;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Policy Statement
without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower or KILC;
(e) KILC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-22-
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project;
(g) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation or undertaking on the part of the Borrower or the Guar-
antor under the Guarantee Release Arrangement; and
(h) the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to per-
form any obligation under the First Loan Agreement or the First
Guarantee Agreement (other than the obligation to make any payment
required thereunder).
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and KILC;


﻿-23-
(c) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(d) the event specified in paragraph (g) or paragraph (h)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
Section 5.03. Schedule 2 (Modifications of the General Condi-
tions) to the First Loan Agreement shall be amended by adding a
new paragraph 3 which shall read as follows:
"(3) Section 6.02 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"The Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed
to perform any other obligation under the Loan Agreement
or the Guarantee Agreement, or under the loan agreement
dated December 23, 1976, between the Bank and 'he Bor-
rower or under the guarantee agreement of even date
therewith between the Guarantor and the Bank."
Paragraph 3 of the said Schedule 2 to the First Loan Agreement
shall be renumbered as paragraph 4.


﻿24
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely
that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of KDB and KILC, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, KDB and KILC, respectively, and is legally binding
upon KDB and KILC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 21, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-25 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Korea Development Bank
140-1, 2-ga Namdaemun-ro
Choong-gu
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                Telex:
KODEVELBANK                   KODBANK K 27463
Seoul


﻿-26-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ B.R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative


﻿*                          -27-
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedules
A-   Part A of the Loan*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
December 15, 1979                                 1,395,000
June 15, 1980                                     1,465,000
December 15, 1980                                 1,525,000
June 15, 1981                                     1,595,000
December 15, 1981                                 1,670,000
June 15, 1982                                     1,740,000
December 15, 1982                                 1,815,000
June 15, 1983                                     1,900,000
December 15, 1983                                 1,985,000
June 15, 1984                                     2,070,000
December 15, 1984                                 2,165,000
June 15, 1985                                     2,255,000
December 15, 1985                                 2,365,000
June 15, 1986                                     2,465,000
December 15, 1986                                 2,575,000
June 15, 1987                                     2,690,000
December 15, 1987                                 2,810,000
June 15, 1988                                     2,930,000
December 15, 1988                                 3,065,000
June 15, 1989                                     3,205,000
December 15, 1989                                 3,340,000
June 15, 1990                                     3,495,000
December 15, 1990                                 3,650,000
June 15, 1991                                     3,810,000
December 15, 1991                                 3,980,000
June 15, 1992                                     4,155,000
December 15, 1992                                 4,345,000
June 15, 1993                                     4,540,000
* Part A of the Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.09 of the Loan Agree-
ment.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-28 -
B-   Part B of the Loan
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1977                     270,000
through December 15, 1990
On June 15, 1991                                     210,000
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-29-
Premiums on Prepayment
A.   The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of Part A of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05
(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.10 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.55%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.05%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5.65%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                          7.70%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                          8.70%


﻿-30-
B.   The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of Part B of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05
(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.75%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                          7.55%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8.70%


﻿-31 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03.Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section
2.03 of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests


﻿-32-
permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such appli-
cations or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿-33-
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   KILC shall repay the amounts of Part B of the Loan relent to
it by the Borrover over a period of 15 years, including a grace
period of 1 year, and at an interest rate of 10.20% per annum on
the principal amounts outstanding from time to time.
2.   The proceeds of Part B of the Loan so relent to KILC shall be
used by KILC for the purposes of entering into Lease Agreements
with Investment Enterprises whose total assets shall not exceed
W-600,000,000 or for Investment Projects which shall involve the
creation of jobs the estimated unit cost of which shall not exceed
the equivalent of $15,000. The lessees shall bear the foreign ex-
change risk of Part B of the Loan relent to KILC under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement.


