                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   Report No: 82156-SB




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                                    OF

   SOLOMON ISLANDS: TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ICT DEVELOPMENT

                                               PROJECT

                      H550-SB AND TRUST FUND NUMBER TF097221



                                                TO THE

                                       SOLOMON ISLANDS


                                         OCTOBER 29, 2013




Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea & the Pacific Islands Country Department
Transport, Water and ICT Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                  SOLOMON ISLANDS
                   TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ICT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                  Page

A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 1
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 1
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 1




                       Regional Vice President:                         Axel van Trotsenburg
                             Country Director:                          Franz R. Drees-Gross
                              Sector Manager:                           Randeep Sudan
                            Task Team Leader:                           Natasha Beschorner


                                                                -i-
       SOLOMON ISLANDS: TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ICT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

  A. SUMMARY

1.      The purpose of this restructuring is to further clarify the definition of Incremental
Operating Costs in the Project’s legal agreements, at the request of the Project Implementing
Entity.


B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      The Project was approved on April 6, 2010 in the amount of an SDR 2.1 million
(US$3.25 million equivalent) IDA Grant, and US$2.74 million AusAID cofinancing through the
Pacific Region Infrastructure Facility (PRIF), totaling US$5.99 million. The development
objectives of the Project are to facilitate increased access to a wide variety of reliable and
affordable telecommunications services for the majority of the Solomon Islands population
through efficient and well-regulated competition.

3.      Achievement of development objectives and implementation progress are rated
satisfactory. Access to telecommunications services, particularly mobile telephony and internet,
continues to improve in Solomon Islands (the “Recipient”), with mobile penetration approaching
60 percent as of October 2013. Following a successful transition from a monopolistic to a
competitive market there are now five active service providers, including Solomon Telekom Ltd
(STL, the incumbent), Bemobile, the second mobile service provider which became active in
August 2010, as well as three new entrants in 2012. An independent regulator, the
Telecommunications Commission of the Solomon Islands (TCSI, also referred to as the Project
implementing Entity), has been established and is operational. The Government is developing
new ICT/e-Government policies.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

4.     The proposed change is a more detailed definition of Incremental Operating Costs (IOC).
The Project cost breakdown by category is as follows: Consultant Services: US$2,825,000;
Goods: US$206,000; Training: US$130,000; and Incremental Operating Costs (IOC):
US$2,835,000. The rationale for the relatively high allocation to IOC was because the Project is
designed to finance the entire operational cost of the Project Implementing Entity, as noted in the
PAD (Section III D) and Annex 9:

       “With regard to financing, in line with regulatory arrangements implemented in other
       countries, the Commission is to be financed through a levy on industry revenues (gross
       revenues net of interconnection charges), and this is provided for in the Act. An analysis
       of the current industry revenues and modeling of prospective future revenues indicates
       that the levy structure provides for coverage of operating costs from the first year of
       competition and increasing over coverage thereafter. However, the Settlement

                                               -1-
       Agreement [the legal agreement between the Government and the incumbent operator,
       Solomon Telekom Ltd. that terminated its exclusive license prior to its planned expiration
       date] provides that license fees for the first five years are to be used to fund the
       Government’s obligation to pay compensation to STL in consideration of its
       relinquishing of its exclusive rights. The Project will therefore finance the operating
       costs and salaries of the Commission during this transitional period.”

5.      Incremental Operating Costs were defined in the IDA Financing Agreement and PRIF
Grant Agreement as follows. Given the high proportion of incremental operating costs, close
attention is required to expenditures incurred under this category.

       “(i) ‘Incremental Operating Costs’ means incremental expenses incurred on account
       of Project implementation, support and management and reasonably related thereto,
       including salaries and per diems of staff of the Telecommunication’s Commission for
       travel outside Honiara but within the recipient’s territory, communications, utilities,
       stationary, vehicle operation and maintenance costs and office rental costs, but
       excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants;”

6.     In the course of implementation review in October 2011, the Association was alerted to
the possibility of ineligible expenditures under the IOC category. Accordingly, a complete
review of IOC expenditures was undertaken for the period January-December 2011. Following
extensive discussions with the Recipient and TCSI, and provision of additional documentation
by TCSI, the final FM review, dated October 2012, concluded that the final amount of ineligible
expenditure to be reimbursed by the Recipient was SBD 509,010 and US$41,166. The Recipient
has agreed to reimburse the funds.

7.     In the course of the review process the Association proposed a revision to the definition
of IOC (Letter to MOFT, July 12, 2012), as follows:

       “(i) ‘Incremental Operating Costs’ means incremental expenses incurred on account
       of Project implementation, support and management and reasonably related thereto,
       including membership fees for relevant professional institutions and international
       organizations in the telecommunications sector, salaries and per diems of staff of the
       Telecommunications Commission for travel outside Honiara but within the Recipient’s
       territory, utilities, communications, stationary, vehicle operation and maintenance
       costs and office rental costs, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants.”

8.      However, the Project Implementing Entity—which had led the discussion on this issue on
the Government side— requested further granularity of the IOC definition. Extensive
discussions ensued between TCSI and the Association. During the Implementation Review
mission of October 2012 it was agreed to include a more detailed explanation of IOC in the
mission’s aide-memoire. In April 2013, TCSI submitted a withdrawal application in respect of
payment for membership fees, plus arrears, to the International Telecommunications Union
(ITU). This was rejected by the Controllers’ Department, as “membership of professional
organizations” had not been included in the Financing Agreement or the Grant Agreement. The
Project Implementing Entity acknowledged that, notwithstanding the clarifications in the
October 2012 mission aide-memoire, the Financing Agreement and Grant Agreement would
indeed need to be amended in order to clarify the definition of IOC.


                                                 -2-
9.      On this basis it is proposed to amend the IDA Financing Agreement H550-SB Paragraph
3.01 (ii), in Article III “Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds” of the Annex, with effect from
June 22, 2010, and the PRIF Grant Agreement Paragraph 3.01 (ii), in Article III “Withdrawal of
Grant Proceeds” of the Annex, with effect from August 6, 2010, to redefine IOC as follows:

       “(ii) “Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental expenses incurred on account
       of Project implementation, support, and management and reasonably related thereto
       including: membership of relevant professional institutions and international
       organizations; costs associated with support of the statutory disputes and appeals panel
       as per Part 17 of the 2009 Telecommunications Act; remuneration (including salaries,
       allowances, bonuses, superannuation contributions, and per diems for operational
       travel); travel and accommodation; communications and deliveries, data management,
       utilities, stationery, printing, registration, licensing, and insurance; vehicle, boat, and
       equipment operation and maintenance; office and other relevant tenancies, office fit
       out and maintenance, facilities hire, and security; but excluding costs on account of
       remuneration of the Recipient’s civil servants, annual home leave and other personal
       travel, donations for any purpose, alcoholic beverages, gifts or personal expenses of
       any kind.”

10.    The Project Implementing Entity has agreed to submit its rolling annual work plan and
budget for review by the World Bank on a semester basis. This has been reflected in the October
2013 mission’s aide-memoire.




                                                  -3-
