      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)



                                                                                                            Report Number : ICRR0020043


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P113148                                               SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Solomon Islands                                       Transport & ICT



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                  Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-H5500,TF-96582,TF-97221                          31-Mar-2015                                                          5,996,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  06-Apr-2010                                          31-Mar-2015

                                                            IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                            3,250,000.00                                              3,280,460.43

  Revised Commitment                                             3,250,000.00                                              3,278,711.64

  Actual                                                         3,244,192.24                                              5,682,561.45




 Sector(s)
 Public administration- Information and communications(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Infrastructure services for private sector development(67%):Other rural development(33%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator         Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            John R. Eriksson                     Christopher David Nelson       IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project Development Objective as stated by the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), page 5, and in the Financing Agreement (Schedule
    1, page 5) was:
    " To facilitate increased access to a wide variety of reliable and affordable telecommunications services for the majority of the
    Solomon Islands population through efficient and well-regulated competition."
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)



b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     There were four components:
     1. Sector Policy Support: Appraisal estimate US$0.30 million, actual cost at closure: US0.30 million. This component planned to provide
     capacity building support to the Ministry of Communication and Aviation (MCA) and other relevant ministries and agencies for developing
     ICT sector-related policies. Activities in this component included: (i) reviewing and updating the ICT policy framework:
     (ii) developing governance arrangements for wider ICT access: (iii) making adjustments to the broader ICT legal and regulatory framework
     and a needs assessment for identifying secondary legislation that might be needed for enabling the ICT sector: (iv) providing support to
     the government's work on international telecommunication agreements (such as linkages with regional connectivity programs): (v)
     providing support to the government for participating in international telecommunication agreements (such as in the International
     Telecommunication Union and World Trade Organization (WTO).
     2. Regulatory Support: Appraisal estimate US$4.96 million, actual cost at closure US$5.40 million. This component provided
     operational and capacity building support to the newly-formed Telecommunications Commission (hereafter referred to as the
     Commission). Activities in this component included: (i) appointing the head of the Commission and other core professional and
     administrative staff of the Commission: (ii) technical assistance for developing the regulatory regime and advisory assistance in key areas
     (such as, issuance of telecommunications service and radio spectrum licenses, completing the spectrum license plan, technical regulation
     such as interconnection arrangements, arrangements for monitoring competitive behavior in the ICT sector and developing dispute
     resolution and mediation procedures for resolving disputes between service providers and preparing the tender for a third license provider:
     (iv) training the staff of the Commission:(v) financing the Commission's recurrent and operational costs.
     3. Technical Assistance for Universal Access: Appraisal estimate US$0.30 million, actual cost at closure US$0.00 million. This
     component planned to provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Communication and Aviation for providing ICT services in
     commercially non viable areas in rural centers and outer islands of Solomon Islands and developing a Universal Access (UA) policy for
     ICT services in general. Activities in this component included: (I) developing a UA policy: (ii) Developing the necessary regulatory
     instruments and procedures for establishing and operating a Universal Access Fund): (iii) Identifying possible UA sub-projects: (iv)
     designing and implementing awareness raising and training programs for women. The implementation of activities in this component was
     to be deferred until the latter years of the project when when some experience had been gained with the entry of the second operator in
     the ICT sector.( discussed in section 3a). Actual cost of this component was lower than the appraisal estimate as activities in this
     component were not eventually implemented.
     4. Project Management. Appraisal estimate US$0.39 million, actual cost at closure US$0.17 million. This component planned to provide
     project implementation support in the areas of project management, monitoring and evaluation and financial and procurement
     management). The ICR does not provide information on why the actual cost of this project component was lower than the appraisal
     estimate.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: Appraisal estimate US$5.95 million, actual cost at closure US$5.87 million. Although actual costs were under appraisal
     estimates, there were variations in the costs of project components. Actual costs of component two activities proved to be higher than
     estimated at appraisal. The increase in cost of this component was met through reallocation of funding from other components.
     Project Financing: The project had two sources of funding under Bank administration: an IDA grant of US$3.25 million and co financing
     of US$2.74 million from Australia under the Regional Infrastructure Facility Infrastructure (PRIF) grant. In addition, a parallel PRIF grant
     of US$3.0 million was provided in October 2010 and 2012. The parallel grant was intended for providing compensation to the Solomon
     Telecom Limited (STL) as stipulated in the Settlement Agreement (discussed in section 3a). At project closure, US$3.24 million of the
     IDA grant was disbursed. And, US$2.68 million of the original PRIF grant and US$3.0 million of the additional PRIF grant was disbursed.
     Borrower Contribution: None was planned.
     Dates: There were two Level 2 project restructurings. The first approved on November 14, 2013 modified the definition of the
     incremental operating costs of the Commission. These costs were redefined to include the membership fees incurred by the Commission
     for participating in International Organizations. The second restructuring on March 26, 2015, further modified the definition of operating
     costs. The operating costs were redefined to include the incremental expenses incurred by the Commission during project
     implementation. The expenses included the membership fees incurred by the Commission for participating in international organizations
     (including arrears since 1990) and costs associated with the payment of remuneration to the staff of the Commission.
     The project closed as per schedule on March 31, 2015.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Country conditions:
   The project development objectives were highly relevant to the government's ICT policy at the appraisal stage. Solomon Islands in the Pacific,
   remote from global markets, consists of 992 islands of which a third is populated, and the topography of the country, includes a population
   which is widely dispersed over multiple islands. The remoteness of the country from global markets and the remoteness of rural areas and
   outer islands from metropolitan centers within the country, was further exacerbated by the poor quality of ICT services in the country. At the
   appraisal stage, only about 11% of the population had access to ICT services, fewer than 1,000 had access to fixed broadband services, there
   was no mobile internet, and the price for a one minute call was US$0.40 in a country, with a per capita income of US$1,537. One reason for
   the poor service delivery was the monopolistic market structure in the ICT sector, with a single service provider, the Solomon Telecom Ltd
   (STL) having the exclusive license for providing ICT services for 15 years. Prior to the appraisal stage in 2008, the Government adopted a new
   telecommunication sector policy, with the objectives of terminating the incumbent service provider's monopoly, strengthening regulatory
   capacity in the ICT sector and providing rural areas with access to communication services and internet applications. The government
   entered into a Settlement agreement with the incumbent service provider and followed this up with the enactment of the Telecommunications
   Act in 2009, Under the terms of the agreement, the government was required to pay compensation to STL for continuing to provide ICT
   services to commercially not viable customers in rural areas and outer islands until 2015. The provisions of the Telecommunications
   Act included, strengthening competition in the ICT sector and transfer of regulatory functions to an independent regulator. Alongside this, the
   government awarded a mobile license to a second operator (Bemobile). The activities in this project aimed at implementing the provisions of
   this act.
   The project development objectives were relevant to the Government Strategy to date. The government's strategy, as articulated in the
   National Development Strategy for the 2011-2020 period, underscored the need for improving the well being of the population, through
   increasing social and economic opportunities, securing sustainable growth and maintaining stability and peace.
   Bank Group strategy:
   The project development objectives continue to be relevant to the World Bank Group Strategy for Solomon Islands. At the appraisal stage, the
   Bank's Regional engagement framework FY2006-2009 for the Pacific Islands identified the two objectives for the regional countries as: (I)
   Improving the incentives for private-sector led growth and employment: and, (ii) Strengthening capabilities for delivery of services. The Bank at
   the appraisal stage, was also supporting along with regional partners, the goal of establishing a new telecommunications regional regulatory
   resource center for the Pacific in 2010.
   The project development objective remains relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership (CPS) strategy for the 2013-2017 period. The CPS
   emphasized the need for improving delivery of services in Solomon Islands, through among other things, improved access to ICT services and
   an efficient ICT policy framework. The project objectives were also consistent with the Bank Group's ICT Sector Strategy of 2012. The
   strategy emphasized the need for promoting competition in the ICT sector and thereby attracting private investment in the sector
   and increasing affordable access to ICT services.




   Rating
   High


b. Relevance of Design

   The statement of the development outcomes of the project, which financed technical assistance activities, was clear and the causal links
   between project activities, their outputs and outcomes are valid.
   The capacity building activities in the Ministry of Communication and Aviation can be expected to improve its policy making capability with
   respect to the ICT sector. Component two activities aimed at the Commission, can be expected to contribute to creating a conducive regulatory
   environment for the ICT sector, and this can be expected to contribute to increasing competition in the sector. Component three activities (TA
   for Universal Access) can be expected to increase the number of people with access to ICT services. The combination of these activities can be
   expected to contribute to providing reliable and affordable telecommunication services to the majority of the population in the Solomon Islands,
   Exogenous factors such as lack of staff with the required technical and managerial skills to manage the newly formed Commission were
   identified at appraisal, and appropriate measures such as recruiting international specialists and using their skills to build indigenous capacity,
   were incorporated in design.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To facilitate increased access to a wide variety of reliable services for the majority of the population.

    Rationale
    Project outputs were common to both sub-objectives and are listed as follows.
    Outputs

        • The draft of the ICT policy framework was prepared as targeted. The framework included governance arrangements for the sector
        and identified areas where secondary legislation may be required for enabling the sector. The framework was awaiting endorsement by
        the Prime Minister before it could be enacted by parliament at project closure.
        • The Head of the Commission and other core professional and administrative staff of the Commission were appointed, as targeted.
        • The spectrum management plan and the numbering plan was completed, as targeted. An interconnection agreement was signed
        between the incumbent service provider (STL) and the second operator (Bemobile) in April 2010, as targeted.
        • Activities pertaining to the preparation of third license was not completed as it was deemed to be not necessary, in view of the
        relatively small size of the domestic market and the early stage of competition in the ICT sector.
        • 16 other telecommunications licenses were awarded at project closure, as compared to the target of three.
        • As part of the activity on supporting the Government’s work on international agreements relating to telecommunication, the Solomon
        Islands Oceanic Company was established in 2011, for connecting Solomon Islands to Sydney through a submarine fibre optic
        cable. The task team confirmed that the evaluation process of the proposed submarine cable was still ongoing and the government to
        date, had not made the decision on the routing/financing option.
        • The draft of the dispute resolution and mediation procedures was being prepared and had not yet been completed as targeted at
        project closure.
        • The activity pertaining to the Universal Access and provision of ICT services in rural areas was dropped. This activity was to
        commence after the third year of implementation. This activity was dropped as a UA policy was deemed to be not necessary, in view of
        the increased coverage of ICT services in rural areas during the project execution phase.


    Outcomes

        • 89% of the population were covered by mobile networks at project closure, as compared to 11% at the baseline, and as compared to
        the original target of 80%. The task team leader confirmed that coverage had further expanded since project closure, and to date 90% of
        the population were covered by mobile networks.
        • Teledensity, the number of mobile subscribers per 100 people increased from 8% at the baseline to 66%. This exceeded the target of
        40%.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)




 Objective 2

 Objective
 To facilitate access to affordable communications services for the majority of the population.

 Rationale
 Outcomes

    • Competition in the ICT sector increased, with the functioning of the second operator by project closure.
    • There was a reduction in prices of key communications services as targeted. The price of a three minute domestic call reduced from
    US$1.20 at the baseline to US$0.56 at project closure, and as compared to the original target of US$1.08. The price of a three minute
    international call to Australia fell from US$3.60 at the baseline to US$2.44 and as compared to the target of US$3.06. The monthly rate
    for internet services for businesses reduced from US$169 in 2010 to US$108 in 2015 as a result of competition between the two service
    providers.


 It is difficult to determine the extent to which the project contributed to the project development outcomes in the absence of data that would
 permit a more rigorous analysis (that is, some kind of control group). However, it is reasonable to conclude that the capacity building
 activities aided in providing for a conducive regulatory environment and providing incentives for competition in the ICT sector. This in turn
 significantly contributed to the project development objective of facilitating increased access to reliable and affordable communication
 services for the majority of the population of Solomon Islands.


 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

 A traditional economic and financial analysis was not conducted at appraisal, as the project was mainly a technical assistance operation. The
 PAD (page 12) reports that an assessment of the financial sustainability of the Commission based on a review of costs, revenue projections
 and the terms of the Settlement Agreement with Solomon Telecom Ltd (STL), concluded that the Commission would have sufficient
 budget from annual service license fee from operators (set at 2% of the Telecommunication industry gross revenues minus interconnection
 charges under the Act), to meet its operating cost. However, the Commission could not use the license fees until March 2015, as under the
 terms of the Settlement Agreement, license fees from other service operators were to be used by the government for fulfilling its obligation to
 pay compensation to STL for early termination of its monopoly. This project financed the recurrent and operational costs of the Commission
 until March, 2015.
 The delays in the launching of the second operator by around seven months resulted in corresponding delays in the payment of license fees
 to the Commission. The ICR (page 11) notes that this meant that the Commission could expect to receive license fees from the second
 operator,only after October 16, 2015. The task team leader clarified that Commission started receiving license fees from the second operator
 earlier than expected, namely, by April 1, 2015. And since then, the Commission has been financing its operating costs through license fees.
 The project closed as per schedule with 99% disbursement.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)



                                                                                                              0
 Appraisal                                                                  0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              0
 ICR Estimate                                                               0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project development objective was rated as High and relevance of design was rated as Substantial. Efficacy of the two sub-objectives was
rated as Substantial. All outcomes were achieved. Although it is difficult to determine the extent to which the activities contributed to the
development outcome, it is reasonable to conclude that the activities significantly contributed to the project development outcome. Efficiency
was rated Substantial.




a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Government Commitment: Given the delays associated with establishing the inter-ministry monitoring group in the case of this project
(discussed in section 9a), there is a Modest risk that the government will not be committed to sector reform and performing the necessary
oversight function that is required for ensuring the technical and financial sustainability of the project.
Financial Risk: A financial assessment of the Commission conducted at project closure concluded that revenue from the license fee would be
sufficient to cover the operating costs of the Commission. In view of this, the financial risk is rated as Low.
Institutional Risk: There is the risk to development outcome due to capacity considerations of the Commission (such as lack of technical
staff). The ICR notes that the Commission besides, investing significantly in building indigenous capacity through training to the staff during the
implementation phase, also renewed the current Commissioner's contract for another two years to ensure continuity in the medium term. In view
of this, the institutional risk is rated as Modest.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Since the project was the first of its kind in the ICT sector in Solomon Islands, it was based on the lessons learnt from ongoing ICT reform
     projects in neighboring countries in the Pacific (Vanuatu, Samoa, Tonga and Papua New Guinea). The project was prepared in collaboration
     with cofinanciers, who had also financed complementary ICT related activities in the past. As discussed in section four, financial assessments
     were conducted at the preparation stage to assess the financial viability of the Commission. Since people with the required technical and
     managerial skills were lacking at the appraisal stage and were unlikely to be available in the medium term, the design envisaged building
     indigenous capacity through recruiting international consultants. Several risks were identified (including high risks associated with the limited
     experience and capacity of the implementing agency) Appropriate risk mitigation measures were undertaken, such as recruitment of a
     Commissioner project coordinator and financial and procurement management as effectiveness conditions for the IDA grant. The design also
     envisaged more intense supervision of financial management (at least three times in the first year), in view of the substantial risk associated
     with financial management.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)



      • There were significant drawbacks in M&E design. The results framework did not include appropriate indicators for monitoring the
      institutional dimension of the project (such as activities aimed at improving the policy environment and improving the legal and regulatory
      framework).




   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Seven Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs) were filed, implying an average of two missions every year. Eight financial management
   review missions were conducted as envisaged at appraisal. With regard to the Universal Access component of the project, the supervision
   team proactively attempted to engage the Commission on making possible adjustments to the scope of this activity.
   While the number of missions were within the norm, more frequent missions could have helped, given the limited capacity environment in
   Solomon Islands. Although a Mid Term Review (about 30 months from the date of effectiveness) was envisaged at the appraisal stage (PAD,
   page 10), there was no formal Mid Term Review, as it was not deemed to be necessary. A Mid Term review or an event at a later stage, could
   have helped in engaging higher level officials to assist in the identification of ways to advance the policy component of the Universal Access
   (UA) Component.

      • Although there were two project restructurings, the team did not use the opportunity to revise the results framework to reflect the current
      realities in the ICT sector which had resulted in non-completion of the activity pertaining to the UA component..
      • There were financial management issues pertaining to ineligible expenditures (discussed in section 11).



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government's commitment at the project stage was demonstrated by its action of proactively taking steps to mobilize funds from
   cofinanciers and beginning the process of recruiting the Commissioner prior to project effectiveness .

      • There was a lack of designated project counterparts within the Ministry of Communication and Aviation and despite several attempts
      to recruit officials for the Ministry's ICT unit, the posts were not filled by project closing. This contributed to significant shortcomings in
      achieving the expected results of the ICT policy component of the project. Although the draft legislative framework was completed, it
      had not yet been enacted by parliament at project closure..
      • There were significant delays in fulfilling the grant covenant, of establishing an inter-ministry monitoring group for oversight of the
      project during the implementation phase. The interdepartmental monitoring committee, which was to be established as per the
      Financing Agreement by December 2010, was not established until mid 2012. Even after the establishment of the committee, it
      was convened only four times during the project execution phase.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Telecommunication Commission of Solomon Islands (TCSI) was the implementing agency. During the implementation phase, the
   agency took initiatives not only within its own mandate, but also by assisting the Ministry in implementing the ICT policy component of the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)



   project. The Committee was also able to maintain continuity of staff with few staff changes during the implementation phase.The staff of the
   commission participated in training activities to enhance their skills in carrying out their respective functions. The Commission was able to
   maintain sound relations with major public and private sector stakeholders and its arrangements for implementation of M&E were
   adequate.
   There were financial management issues due to two instances of ineligible expenditures (discussed in section 11).




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The M&E design included five key outcome indicators. Of these five, three (increase in the level of competition in the ICT sector, increase in
   teledensity and decrease in tariffs of key communication services) were measurable. The other two indicators (improved ICT policy environment
   and effectiveness of the legal and regulatory framework at delivering policy performance) were not measurable as stated.
   The Commission was responsible for monitoring and had collected the baseline data at the design stage to monitor progress.




b. M&E Implementation
   As per the provisions of the Telecommunications Act, the Commission had access to relevant information for monitoring (such as industry
   data such as tariffs, financial statement, subscriber numbers, revenue earned, services offered and interconnection agreements). The
   Commission's monitoring of project progress was facilitated by the Business Intelligence System and training provided to the staff for
   administering the system.




c. M&E Utilization
   The information developed under the system was used to collect and analyze information pertaining to competition in the ICT sector. The
   ICR however provides very little information on how the information was utilized for relevant purposes (such as, modifications of
   implementation in order to increase the likelihood of achieving the project development objective, budget reallocations among components,
   raising issues with the government or recruiting new personnel or consultants).




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a category C project. Since the project financed only capacity-building activities, no adverse impacts were
   anticipated at the appraisal stage. The ICR (page 11) reports that no safeguard issues arose during implementation.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management: At appraisal, the risk associated with financial management was rated as Substantial, as the Commission although
   established legally, had only begun recruiting staff for financial management. Risk mitigation measures included more intense supervision in the
   initial year (at least three times the first year).
   At the implementation phase, there were delays associated using the accounting system and a number of ineligible expenditures, These
   ineligible expenditures were resolved through a combination of factors including formal amendments to the definition of incremental operating
   costs of the commission, provision of missing documentation and reimbursements to the Bank. In July 2014, the Bank's financial management
   review identified another set of potential ineligible expenditures which required investigation and resolution. The Bank's review indicated that a
   portion of the new premises leased by the Commission had been subleased to an external business, with personal connections to a
   Commission staff member. The issue was finally resolved by August 2015.
   Procurement: Although there were initial delays associated with recruiting a procurement specialist, the management of procurement was
   deemed to be satisfactory during the project execution phase. The ICR(page 11) reports that procurement activities were limited after 2011, as
   most of project financing was intended for meeting the recurrent operating expenses of the Commission.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                       ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR (page 21-22) draws the following main lessons from this project.

   • Particularly in a project where country capacity is weak, at the design stage it is necessary to ensure that experienced counterparts are in
   place before effectiveness and technical assistance activities are provided to the relevant ministry. Recruiting counterpart staff in advance
   can help in furthering the legislative framework component of the project.
   • A more upfront and documented discussion with the implementing agency is needed regarding what are eligible expenditures under the
   project are necessary. A significant amount of time and effort can be expended for resolving the issue of ineligible expenditures.
   • Having a formal Mid Term Review can be useful, even if there is good performance during the initial years of the project. A formal mid
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SB: Telecommunications & ICT Project (P113148)



     term review can help in engaging higher level officials and thereby advancing a key policy component.
     • Having continuity of staff within the project implementation unit can be very helpful in successful completion of the project.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and well written. It provides a candid description of the problems encountered at the implementation phase.
The description of ineligible expenditures and incremental operating costs is very brief, A better explanation of these terms could have helped
in getting a better sense of the problems encountered during the implementation phase.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
