OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                  1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address:
INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
November J    , 2013
The Honorable Rick Houenipwela
Minister of Finance and Treasury
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
P.O. Box 26
Honiara
Solomon Islands
Dear Minister,
Solomon Islands: Telecommunications and ICT Development Project
(PRIF Grant No. TF097221)
First Amendment to the Grant Agreement
We refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") dated August 6, 2010 between the
Solomon Islands (the "Recipient") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and International Development Association (collectively, the "World Bank"),
acting as administrator of grant funds provided under the Pacific Region Infrastructure
Facility (PRIF) multi-donor trust fund for the above referenced project
Pursuant to our recent discussions, the World Bank proposes to amend Section
3.01(ii) of the Annex to the Agreement to read as follows:
(ii) "Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental expenses incurred on account
of Project implementation, support, and management and reasonably related thereto,
including: membership of relevant professional institutions and international organizations;
costs associated with support of the statutory disputes and appeals panel as per Part 17 of the
2009 Telecommunications Act; remuneration (including salaries, allowances, bonuses,
superannuation contributions, and per diems for operational travel); travel and
accommodation; communications and deliveries, data management, utilities, stationery,
printing, registration, licensing, and insurance; vehicle, boat, and equipment operation and
maintenance; office and other relevant tenancies, office fit out and maintenance, facilities
hire, and security; but excluding costs on account of remuneration of the Recipient's civil
servants, annual home leave and other personal travel, donations for any purpose, alcoholic
beverages, gifts or personal services of any kind.
All terms of the Agreement not hereby amended shall remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm the Recipient's agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized
official of the Recipient sign and date both enclosed copies of this Letter of Amendment and
returning one to the World Bank.


﻿Upon receipt by the World Bank of one filly executed original of this letter of
amendment duly countersigned by an authorized representative of the Recipient, this letter of
amendment shall come into effect from June 22, 2010.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT/
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By_                _    _    _    _
Franz R. Drees-Grost
Country Director
Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea
& Pacific Islands
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
Solomon Islan s
By
Authorized Representative
Name: RAC*L 4eVA/
Title:  _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _
Date:
CC:    Bernard Hill
Commissioner
Telecommunications Commission of the Solomon Islands
PO Box 2180
Honiara, Solomon Islands
2


