Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2658-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
FISHERY TRAINING PROJECT
November 26, 1979
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1979)
US$1 - Pesos (P) 7.4
P 1 - US$0.135
GLOSSARY
BFAR     - Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
EDPITAF - Educational Development Projects Implementation Task Force
MEC      - Ministry of Education and Culture
PCARR    - Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research
SEAFDEC - Southeast Asia Fisheries Development Council
UPCF     - University of the Philippines, College of Fisheries
UPLB     - University of the Philippines in Los Banos
UPV      - University of the Philippines in the Visayas
UPVCF    - University of the Philippines in the Visayas, College of Fisheries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July - April



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FISHERY TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Amlount:           $38.0 million
Terms:             The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 7.95%.
Project            The project seeks to support the Government's development
Description:    strategy for the fishery sector by strengthening fishery
technology and human resources with particular emphasis on
assistance to small-scale fishermen. The project would
assist in establishing a national system of fishery
training to supply appropriately trained professional and
technical manpower, strengthen research, and improve the
knowledge and skills of fishermen. It would develop the
University of the Philippines in the Visayas, College of
Fisheries as a center of excellence for professional
fishery training and research, and would establish seven
Regional Institutes of Fishery Technology for
technician-level training. These institutions would train
30% of the professional and technical manpower needed
between 1979 and 1990 to help develop the fishery sector.
In addition, seven Regional Centers for Fishermen Training
would be established adjacent to the Institutes.  During
the same period, these nonformal fishery training centers
would directly benefit about 10% of the country's existing
small-scale fishermen and all the existing extiension
workers through in-service training courses.
The success of the proposed fishery training project
depends largely on the Government's budgetary and
administrative capabilities to implement concurrently
other fishery development projects, several of which are
at an advanced stage of development. Should the
Government's other projects not proceed as envisaged,
there would be a risk of an oversupply of trained fishery
manpower. However, without the trained manpower to be
produced by the proposed project, other fishery projects
would suffer. Other risks are related to the Government's
ability to reorient fishery training from aquaculture to
marine fishery, the area with the greatest potential for
growth. These risks have been reduced by features of
project design including fellowships for marine fishery
faculty and specialist services to assist with marine
fishery curriculum development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofkial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disekloed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total /1
------ ($ million) ------
Professional Manpower Training
University of the Philippines in the Visayas,
College of Fisheries (UPVCF)                      9.9        7.7        17.6
Technical Manpower Training
Seven Reg4onal Institutes of Fishery Technology
(RIFTs) and Regional Centers for Fishermen
Training (RCFTs)                                 18.5       14.8        33.2
Project Management
Management support                                    -        0.2         0.2
Evaluation                                           0.1       0.3         0.4
Studies                                             0.2        1.8         2.0
Base Cost                                       28.6       24.8        53.5
Contingencies (physical and price increase)           10.2       6.9        17.1
Total project cost                              38.8       31.7        70.6
Less customs duties and taxes                          6.8         -         6.8
Total net project cost                          32.0       31.7        63.8
Financing Plan:            IBRD    Government    Total
------- ($ million) …
38.0       32.6         70.6
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY          FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
------------ ($ million) ---------
Annual          0.1    5.4   10.0   12.0   10.5
Cumulative      0.1    5.5   15.5   27.5   38.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2628a-PH dated November 20, 1979.
/1 Figures may not add due to rounding.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A FISHERY TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $38 million to
help finance a Fishery Training Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.95% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines:  Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors tnder
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines -
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors under Sec M79-822 dated November 16,
1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced.  The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domesi:ic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Samar Island Rural Development Project,
distributed under R 79-277, and scheduled for Board presentation on
December 4, 1979.



-2-
public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio
of public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixea
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78.  As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence
of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of
trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about
5.5% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manu-
facturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates.
In due course, it should, however, be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and the efficiency of investment also needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of



-3 -
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1977/78. With the completion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatiPTely
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled, commercial logging have
led to soil erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls
for a major reforestation effort, but this will require substantial
upgrading of Government administrative capabilities in this area,
development of new hill cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult
land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of March 1978,
about 60% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process establishing their claim to the
land), but only about 10% had completed all formalities.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed gocods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



- 4 -
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978.  However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.      71mployment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Owing to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by about
2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor
live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have not
improved substantially. Although accurate statistics are not available, the
share of family income received by the poorest 40% of families appears to
have increased somewhat; the income share of the top 20% has remained about
the same; and that of the middle-income families has declined correspondingly.
Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains high, at 40-45%, in both rural
and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only



- 5 -
12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1975 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government ccrporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total. invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned in 1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow
of financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes and to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending
rates. Further reforms are required to increase the availability of
long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs have been
adopted to expand lending to the credit-short agricultural sector and rural
areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale industries.. A
deterioration of loan recovery rates was initially experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government has
taken a number of steps to improve collections; continued efforts in this
direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the
public finances.



External Trade and Capital Flows
17.        In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines non-oil imports. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.6 billion (5.7% of GNP) in 1979.
19.        In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is "or high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 5.8% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 22% in 1979 to an
average level of 23% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.        In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government will be seeking commitments of official
assistance of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the next meeting of the
Consultative Group for the Philippines, to be held In Washington, D. C. in
December 1979. In view of the tight budget situation and the fact that many
of the projects planned for financing from external sources have low foreign
exchange requirements, some local cost financing, either through increased
cost-sharing arrangements or, alternatively, through non-project lending, is
necessary to meet the Philippines' external financing requirements.



-7-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
22.       As of September 30, 1979, the Philipp Le6 had received 63 Bank
loans (of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,970.9
million and six IDA credits amount ,ng to $122.2 million.  At that date, IFC
investments totalled $93.7 million.  The share of the Bank Croup in total
debt disbursed and outstanding is about 13% and its share in total debt
service is about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%,
respectively, by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1979, as well as notes on the
execution of ongji.ng projects.
23.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic
infrastructure, which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank
Group lending. In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the
irrigation system to increase food production and to credit programs to
support foodgrain production and processing and livestock, fisheries and
tree farming production. Support has also been provided for integrated
rural development projects in low income areas.  The Bank Group has also
provided large amounts of assistance in developing power and transportation
to provide the basis for future growth of the productive sectors.
Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure has been needed to
compensate for many years of past neglect due to low levels of public
expenditure.  In the industrial sector, the Bank's main thrust has been on
strengthening the capacity of public and private development finance
institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of small
and medium industries.
24.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage oE peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project com-
pletion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are
likely to be in line with appraisal estinates.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has 1been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part oL future
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Samar Island Rural Development Project
(R79-277) which is scheduled for Board presentation on T)ecember 4, 1q79.



lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program
provides for several needed new initiatives, including support for
strengthening the national agricultural extension service through Loan
1626-PH (December 1978) and an upcoming first loan for developing multiple
cropping systems in rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty.
Increased assistance will also be provided for integrated rural development
projects which will support the Government's objectives of redressing
regional imbalances in income. Substantial assistance will also continue to
be given to industry with considerable attention given to policy reform and
LO cxpaniing the. develoDment of labor-intensive, small and medium industries
outside of the Metropolitan Manila area, The -harc of lencding for social
sector projects is expected to continue to increase primarily as a result of
greater emphasis on construction of urban water supply and sewerage systems
and further assistance for slum upgrading and low-cost sites and services
projects. The Bank Group will continue to provide support for improving the
quality of education and for expanding the Government's population program
in rural areas. While the Bank Group will continue to provide support for
transportation and power infrastructure needed to support the Philippine
development effort, the share of Bank lending for these sectors will decline
somewhat in the years ahead primarily because alternative sources of
financing are available to finance a large part of the power generation
program.
26.       This is the second loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for rainfed agriculture, irrigation, watershed
management, livestock/fisheries credit, sewerage and urban development
projects are in preparation, and are scheduled for presentation early in
1980.
PART III - FISHERY TRAINING
The Fishery Industry
27.        In the Philippines, which comprises over 7,000 islands and has over
17,000 km of coastline, fish is an important resource. Fish production grew
at an annual average of nearly 6% between 1973 and 1977, from 1.2 million to
1.5 million tons, and in 1977 the fishery industry accounted for about 5% of
GNP. Currently, about 95% of fish production is consumed locally; fish is a
staple of the Philippine diet and constitutes about half of the national
intake of protein. The basic objectives set forth in the Government's Inte-
grated Fisheries Development Plan for 1978-87 are to attain self-sufficiency
in fish/l and increase fishery exports by increasing output and productivity.
/1 About 10% of current consumption is imported.



28.       The fishery industry in the Philippines consists of three subsec-
tors: marine fishery, inland fishery and fishery processing. Marine
fishery is further divided into municipal fishery (mostly subsistence-level
small-scale fishermen) and commercial f4shery. Of these subsectors, the
contribution of marine fishery, especially municipal, to the industry is
important. Marine fishery accounted for about 90% of total production in
1977, of which about 65% was in municipal fishery. In 1977 there were
almost one million workers engaged in the fishery sector, representing about
5% of the total work force in the country. Over 90% of the fishery work
force were engaged in marine fishery, and, specifically, 65% in municipal
fishery. The Government's fishery development strategy is to place
increased emphasis on the development of municipal fishery.
29.       Effective management of fishery resources will require further
studies on the extent of over- and under-fishing of marine waters. Fishery
technology appropriate for the Philippines needs to be developed to improve
yields. Although production could be increased by the use of alternative
fishing gear, most municipal boats still use only one type. High priority
needs to be given to boat construction and gear development. In the area of
marketing, the recently-established Philippine Fish Marketing Authority has
prepared a ten-year program for establishing municipal and commercial
fishing ports and markets throughout the country; implementation of this
program has already begun.
30.       It will be necessary to transfer improved technology to small-scale
fishermen in order to decrease the current rate of spoilage (20-30%). An
effective extension service is also needed to help fishermen improve their
handling and processing technology. The Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources (BFAR) of the Ministry of National Resources is the main extension
agency, employing about 500 agents to run over 50 demonstration stations.
Its services are provided at a national average ratio of 1 agent to 1,000
small-scale fishery workers, though by international standards, a ratio of 1
to 400 would be more appropriate. Additional ad hoc extension programs are
run by other government agencies, universities and colleges.  Improved
credit facilities to enable fishermen to finance new technology, e.g.,
better boats and fishing gear, coupled with improved marketing facilities,
should complement extension activities and accelerate adoption of new
technology. Surveys of aquatic resources suggest that, given these increased
support services, production from marine and inland fisheries could be more
than doubled.
31.       The Government's strategy in the fishery sector indicates a period
of gradual transition from traditional subsistence fishing to an efficient
commercial industry. The successful implementation of its programs will,
however, depend on the availability of appropriately trained manpower. The
Government's fish production targets imply that fishery employment will reach
1.4 million by 1990. The highest rate of increase (11% p.a.) will be needed
at the professional and technical manpower levels to strengthen research,
teaching, extension and the industry. This implies that the formal fishery



- 10 -
training program will have to produce 1,300 postsecondary graduates annually
to fill professional and technical positions. The current quality of fishery
training does not adequately prepare graduates for the positions they will
fill. At the secondary education level and below, sufficient manpower is
expected to be available to join the fishery industry, but a nonformal fishery
training program will be needed to extend new technology and information to
working fishermen (over 90% of whom had a primary education or less in 1976)
and to upgrade the technical and administrative skills of extension workers.
Fit-cry Training and Research
32.       Overview.  Formal, postsecondary fishery training is provided
at about 50 institutions through three-year diploma programs, 18 of which also
offer four-year degree programs. All but six of these institutions are
administered .jby the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); the exceptions
are one private institution and five chartered institutions (the colleges of
fisherics at five universities) which are governed by their own board of
regents. Enrollments in fishery training institutions have grown rapidly,
from 910 in 1971/72 to 5,400 in 1977/78, and they presently represent 5% of
tertiary agricultural enrollments. Expenditure on fishery training declined
by about 18% (at current prices) over the same period, but the 1979 budget
rose by about 50% over the 1977/78 budget, reflecting the Government's
decision to give higher priority to fishery training. Organized nonformal
training is provided only in commercial fishery courses at the Fisherman's
Training Center at Cavite City (which provided six-month courses to 170
fishermen in 1977). General agriculture-related research is coordinated by
the Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research (PCARR), with
assistance for specific fishery-related research by the Fishery Industry
Development Council. Studies are conducted by various agencies, including
BFAR, Central Luzon State University, University of the Philippines College of
Fisheries (UPCF) and the Southeast Asia Fisheries Development Council
(SEAFDEC).
33.       Principal Issues.  Fishery training and research suffer from weak
planning and control. Fishery institutions have proliferated in response
to political factors at the local level and have resulted in the insufficient
provision of some types of training (e.g., in-service training in marine
fishery). The uncoordinated development of training has, in turn, had an
adverse effect on research; since most students (about 70%) specialize in
inland fishery, few graduates can be recruited for marine fishery research,
which has contributed to the limited development of indigenous marine tech-
nology. These problems should be resolved through more effective planning.
34.       The Philippines has not yet established a coherent fishery training
system that provides the kinds of research and the levels and types of
training needed by the fishery industry. This is due largely to ad hoc growth
of the fishery training sector. While the UPCF has developed as the apex
institution in research and training, it has been unable to develop important
research programs in such fielas as marine fishery, fishery engineering and



- 11 -
management, and fishing gear and boat development. Its inability to develop
in these fields as an apex institution results mainly from inadequate facili-
ties and its congested location, without direct access to the sea. Degree and
diploma programs given at about 50 other institutions fail to produce
appropriately trained manpower for the fishery industry because of inadequate
teaching programs, staff, equipment and facilities. Nonformal training is not
given on a routine basis except in commercial fishery courses. Information
and skills related to fishing technology, marketing, and credit need ito be
extended to small-scale fishermen to help increase their production, and the
technical and administrative skills of extension workers need to be upgraded.
There is thus a need to establish a national system of fishery training
comprising a center of excellence for high level research and training, a
technician-level training program, and a continuous nonformal training program
for small-scale fishermen and extension staff.
35.       Fishery training suffers from low quality.  Both at the degree and
the diploma level, graduates are poorly trained due to weak teaching staff,
inadequate teaching equipment and facilities, and the type of training given.
The qualifications of staff are generally low and most staff have degrees only
equal to those granted to their students. Limited equipment and faciLities
have been provided for practical training; particularly serious for f[shery
training is the unavailability of training vessels at most institutions.
This contributes to training that is academic rather than practical. With
regard to employment opportunity, diploma students are at an added dis-
advantage because most graduates seek government positions, which require
either a diploma plus one year's job experience or a degree. This require-
ment contributes to the present high proportion of diploma holders (albout 30%)
who transfer to degree programs, despite the country's need for well-trained
technicians (diploma holders). This results in undesirable pressures to open
degree programs at diploma-granting institutions, which are usually introduced
without a corresponding upgrading of staff and facilities. The quality of
fishery training therefore needs to be improved by staff upgrading and
additional recruitment of adequately trained staff; increased provision of
facilities and equipment (particularly training vessels); and a diploma
program with a significant amount of practical training. The Government's
recruitment policy of extension agents also needs to be modified to facilitate
appointment and career advancement of diploma holders.
36.       Government Strategy.  As part of its strategy for integrateid
fishery development, the Government intends to improve fishery research and
training to assist in developing fishery management, technology, market-
ing and appropriate manpower. To achieve these goals, the Government intends
to strengthen planning of fishery programs, establish a coordinated national
strategy, and introduce measures to improve the quality and relevance of
fishery research and training.



- 12 -
37.       Fishery training will continue to be managed as part of agricul-
tural training, but the Government plans to establish a committee for each
agricultural training subsector under the Technical Panel for Agricultural
Education, which was formed in 1977 as an advisory body in HEC. The first
of these, a Fishery Education Technical Committee, was created in 1979 and
will have responsibility for monitoring fishery manpower need and supply
information, as well as for issues related to quality improvements in the
fishery training subsector.
38.       The Government strategy for agricultural training involves consoli-
dation within the framework of a national apex institution, leading institu-
tions serving the three main geographic zones (i.e., Luzon, Visayas and
Mindanao), regional institutes of technology, and nonformal regional
training centers. A similar strategy is being adopted for fishery training.
This entails developing a college of fisheries at the University of the
Philippines in the Visayas (UPVCF) as an apex national institution and also to
serve as the leading fishery training institution in the Visayas.  The UPCF at
Diliman will be transferred to the Visayas (Uliagao) to form the core of the
new college of fisheries which in turn will serve as the nucleus of the new
University of the Philippines in the Visayas (UPV). The present Colleges of
Fisheries of the Central Luzon State University and the Ifindanao State
tUniversity will continue to be developed as leading institutions serving Luzon
and Ilindanao. Regional institutes of fishery technology will be established
by improving existing institutions and, in areas without an institution
suitable for upgrading, by establishing new institutes. The Government plans
to develop nonformal fishery training centers adjacent to the regional
institutes of fishery technology. This system should provide a basic
framework to produce an improved quality of fishery training for professional
manpower (UPVCF, Luzon State University College of Fisheries, ?indanao State
University College of Fisheries) and for technical manpower (regional
institutes of fishery technology and nonformal training centers).
39.       The Government plans to effect quality improvements through the
consolidation and rationalization of fishery training and research. The
establishment of the UPVCF as a leading institution in fishery training will
be pursued through staff development programs and the provision of more and
better facilities at its new coastal location. Research will be streng-
thened by improved quality of graduates remaining in research programs and
by UPVCF's emphasis on narine fishery training.  The Government's strategy
also entails similar improvements in staff, facilities, training vessels and
curricula at the regional institutions. Curricula will be revised to
produce graduates with specialization in one area of fishery study. Colleges
will no longer offer a diploma program. Instead, the regional institutes of
fishery technology will concentrate on the diploma program in fishery tech-
nology. Students will receive the diploma after two years' study on campus
and subsequent completion of a one-year apprenticeship program. This
apprenticeship program will be introduced with the help of the Fisheries
Training Division and the Fisheries Extension Division of BFAR and the
private fishery sector.



- 13 -
World Bank Participation
40.       The World Bank Group has financed five education projects in the
Philippines for a total of $70.7 million. These had the objectives of
providing specialized training for agricultural and technical manpower
development and of effecting improvements in general primary and sec:ondary
education (the latter objective was pursued under the Third and Fifth
Projects - Loan 1224T-PH and Loan S-8, respectively). Bank lending to
improve and expand agricultural training has supported the Government's
national agricultural training program. The First Education Project: (Loan
393-PH, 1964), completed in 1973, assisted in developing the University of
the Philippines College of Agriculture as a national center of excellence.
The Second Education Project (Credit 349-PH, 1973), completed in December
1978, began the aevelopment of regional agricultural colleges in Luzon and
Mindanao, established six barrio development schools adjacent to them, and
developed thirteen agricultural high schools. The Fourth Education Project
(Loan 1374-PH, 1977) was designed to strengthen the disciplines of animal
science and veterinary medicine, forestry and crop sciences at the
University of the Philippines in Los Banos (UPLB); develop a regional
agricultural college in Visayas; and introduce organized nonformal training
and extension services to farmers. During the preparation of the Fourth
Education Project, the Government proposed a similar strategy for the
fishery subsector as a possible target of future Bank assistance.
41.       Previous education projects have generally been successfully
implemented and have met their development impact targets. For example,
Loan 393-PH was successful in assisting the UPLB to become a leading
agricultural institution in the Asia region. Loan 1374-PH is furthetr
strengthening this University. Good progress has also been made in Loan
1224-PH towards developing an effective institutional system for the!
production and distribution of textbooks to primary and secondary schools.
Despite their general success, earlier projects have met with implementation
constraints, which have been taken into account in the design of the
proposed project. A completion report and performance audit was issued for
the First Education Project (Report No. 820). The main lessons learned from
that project relate to (a) assuring adequate operating budget, counterpart
funds, and incentives for retaining high quality staff, especially when the
relocation of a campus is involved; (b) increasing the flexibility of
procedures regarding procurement and disbursement; and (c) developing a
campus plan at an early stage. Lessons learned from projects under
implementation relate to provisions for adequate staff/student ratios, and a
need for advanced project preparation prior to appraisal.
42.       The Bank has financed two fishery credit projects (Loans 891-PH in
1973 and 1270-PH in 1976) which provide credit support for commercial and
inland fishery development. These projects are proving to be reasonably



- 14 -
successful and well implemented.  A third such project is under consider-
ation. Also included in the lending program is a national fishery
development project, which is designed to provide infrastructure and
institutional and financial support to small-scale municipal fishermen.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with FAO
assistance. The project was preappraised in June/July 1978 and appraised in
August/September 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 5
to November 9, 1979, with a Philippine delegation led by His Excellency
Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the United States. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2628a-PH, dated November 20, 1979) is being distrib-
uted separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
ObJectives
44.       In support of the Government's development strategy for the fishery
sector, the proposed project would help the Government to strengthen fishery
technology and human resources through assistance to establish a national
system of fishery training. The system would comprise programs and institu-
tions that would (a) produce appropriately qualified professional and
technical manpower for the fishery sector; (b) improve the knowledge and
skills of small-scale fishermen; and (c) strengthen fishery research. The
main components of the project would thus consist of:  (a) relocation of the
UPCF to the Visayas region; and (b) establishment of seven regional fishery
technician training institutes and adjacent fishermen training centers.
Professional Manpower Training (Proposed Outlay: $17.6 million)/l
45.       University of the Philippines in the Visayas, College of Fisheries
UPVCF. The proposed project would help the Government establish UPVCF as a
center of excellence for fishery research and training. The UPVCF would
provide necessary technology and professional manpower for the Government's
fishery development program, as well as teaching staff for postsecondary
fishery institutions. The UPVCF would be established by relocating UPCF
from Metro Manila to Miagao in the Visayas; this coastal location would
provide it with natural sea laboratories and a harbor, and easy access to
other important research institutions (such as SEAFDEC). The College's
research activities would focus on marine fishery, and the highest
percentage of enrollment would be in marine fishery programs. The College
would provide degree-level training, using a curriculum that develops a
strong specialization in one area of fishery study. Total enrollment would
be increased from 740 in 1977/78 to 850 by 1985/86, and the annual number of
/1 Proposed outlays exclude contingencies.



- 15 -
graduates should increase from 140 to 180, assuming a lower wastage rate
after the move to Miagao. The College's staff would need to be increased
from 41 to 72 through recruitment of graduates from fishery colleges to
maintain a teaching staff/student ratio satisfactory to the Bank (Section
4.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). To ensure effective relocation of the
UPCF staff at Diliman to the new campus at Miagao, incentives including
housing/transportation allowances would be provided for relocating staff
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       To assist in the development of the UPVCF, the project 1would
provide academic and communal facilities, equipment and accommodations. The
project would also provide 2.5 man-years of foreign specialist services to
develop training programs and, to strengthen UPVCF's staff, a total of 90
man-years of overseas fellowships, about two-thirds of which would, be at the
graduate level. The project would also include funds for research projects
at UPVCF or contracted by UPVCF to outside specialists or agencies. Higher
priority would be accorded to projects related to fishery engineering,
fishery economics and management, fishing gear development, and fishing boat
construction. Research proposals would be reviewed by a committee with
representatives of PCARR, UPVCF, the Fishery Education Technical Committee,
and the Educational Development Projects Implementation Task ForcE (EDPITAF)
of the MEC. The Government provided the Bank with acceptable selE!ction
criteria for research projects to be financed by the proposed pro 2ct and
agreed that: (a) a review committee with terms and composition satisfactory
to the Bank would be established by March 31, 1980; and (b) researc;
programs would be selected in accordance with those criteria (Section 4.10
of the draft Loan Agreement). All specialists provided under the proposed
loan would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
and all fellows provided under the proposed loan would be selected according
to selection criteria and award procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Manpower Training (Proposed Outlay $33.2 million)
47.       Regional Institutes of Fishery Technology.  Seven Institutes would
supply technicians needed by the fishery industry and the extension service.
The Institutes would be developed at six fishery training instituitions and
an agricultural college; these institutions are well distributed throughout
the country and have direct access to the sea. The Institutes would
concentrate on technician training of high quality, offering a three-year
program leading to a diploma with majors in marine fishery (which should
account for the largest percentage of enrollment), inland fishery, and fish
preservation and marketing. The Bachelor of Science Degree in Fishery
programs currently offered at six of the Institutes selected for project
assistance would be discontinued by 1984. The degree program will continue
at the Institute at Zamboanga, which provides good quality training and
constitutes an important source of potential teachers (Section 4.05(a) of



- 16 -
the draft Loan Agreement). Each Institute would have the capacity to enroll
450 students and should graduate about 110 students per annum by 1985/86.
Graduates from these Institutes and other postsecondary institutions should
meet fishery technician manpower requirements over the 1979-90 period. To
ensure that future resources are directed to improving the quality of
extension services, (a) no new postsecondary fishery institutions would be
established during project implementation unless recommended by the
Technical Panel for Agricultural Education (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement), and (b) the Ministry of Natural Resources would facilitate
appointment and career advancement of the Institutes' graduates (Section
4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The institutions' present staff of 52
would need to be increased to 210; most of the additional staff could be
recruited from graduates of UPCF/UPVCF. A teaching staff/student ratio
satisfactory to the Bank would be maintained (Section 4.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
48.       To assist in establishing the Institutes, the project would
provide academic and communal facilities, equipment and accommodations. It
would also provide eight man-years of specialist services in curriculum
development and, for staff development, 58.5 man-years of local and 70 man-
years of overseas fellowships. The project would further provide fishing
training vessels which would be used by the Institutes and for nonformal
training. Sixteen vessels and 68 smaller boats such as bancas and skiffs
would be provided to give adequate sea training.
49.       Regional Centers for Fishermen Training.  The Centers would help
the Government establish an organized nonformal training program. In-
service training would be provided to improve the knowledge and skills of
fishermen and to help them increase their production and better their
standard of living. The Centers would be located adjacent to the
Institutes. The training programs would cover technology directly related
to fish production (in marine fishery, inland fishery, and fish handling and
preservation), as well as general subjects that allow the fisherman to
develop some business skill. Twelve courses varying in duration from one to
two weeks would be provided annually in each area of training. The Center
would train 100 fishermen per course, i.e., a total of 8,400 small-scale
fishermen each year, half of whom would be municipal fishermen. In
addition, in-service training courses for extension workers would be
conducted about twice a year at the Centers to upgrade their extension
skills. Each Center would require 10 technical staff and 5 administrative
staff.
50.       The  project would support the establishment of the Centers by
providing academic and communal facilities, equipment and accommodations;
training vessels and major equipment and laboratories would be shared with
the Institutes. The Government has drafted an acceptable memorandum of
agreement between the NEC and the Ministry of Natural Resources on mutual
sharing of specified facilities, and on ownership of and responsibility for
maintenance and repair of shared facilities. Staff support would be



- 17 -
provided by the same local and foreign specialists who would assist the
Institutes, and by 40.5 man-years of local and overseas fellowships to
enable them to develop training programs.
51.       Institutional Arrangements.  Although they would share training
vessels and some facilities, these institutions would come under different
ministries (the Institutes under the MEC and the Centers under the Ministry
of Natural Resources) and each would have its own head and budgeted funds.
A Regional Fishery Training Development Committee, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, would be established to coordinate joint
activities. Such a Committee would be set up by June 30, 1980 in each of
the seven regions where the Institutes and Centers would be located (Section
4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Institutes and Centers would be
allocated sufficient budgets for full utilization and maintenance of their
facilities, equipment and vessels (Section 4.03(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Management (Proposed Outlay: $2.6 million)
52.       Management Support.  The EDPITAF of the NEC is charged with
planning education development strategy, identifying priority projects,
project preparation, evaluation and monitoring, and implementing all
education development projects. To supplement the capabilities of the
EDPITAF, about 1.5 man-years of specialist services would be required in
campus planning, naval architecture, equipment specification writing, and
education planning. EDPITAF's staff would be strengthened in these and
other areas through the provision of 8 man-years of fellowships.
53.       Evaluation.  Project achievements would he monitored anel evaluated
during implementation, and the development of a local evaluation capability
would ensure continuing evaluation after project completion. Evaluation
would measure qualitative improvements in training, employability and job
effectiveness of graduates, and would estimate the success of fishery
training as a national system, particularly the effectiveness of f'ishermen
training. The IMonitoring, Review and Pesearch Division and the Fishery
Education Division within EDPITAF would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation. Assistance would be provided by a Fishery Education Project
Advisory Group, created in 1979, to advise EDPITAF on policy matters
concerning the establishment and operation of fishery institutions under the
project.  The project would assist EDPITAF by providing 12 man-years of
local and foreign specialist services and 2 man-years of fellowships to
develop a local evaluation capability. The Government would: (a) develop
the monitoring and evaluation system for the project institutions by June
30, 1980; (b) complete the collection of baseline data by March 31, 1981;
and (c) furnish an annual report to the Bank for its review each June from
1982 through 1985 (Section 4.08(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
54.       Future Prolects.  The proposed project would also include assis-
tance to the Government in conducting feasibility and engineering studies
for future projects in the education sector. Selection of such studies
would be made in consultation with the Bank (Section 4.08(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Prolect Cost
55.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $70.6 million equiv-
lent (including $6.8 million duties and taxes). The contingency allowance
of $17.1 million comprises (a) physical contingencies estimated at 5% of
base cost, or $2.6 million, and (b) price contingencies estimated at 26% of
base cost plus physical contingencies, or $14.5 million. The price contin-
gencies for civil works and locally produced goods assume an inflation rate
of 16% in 1980, 10% in 1981 and 7% thereafter, and for imported equipment
and technical assistance an inflation rate of 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7%
thereafter. Project costs are based on unit prices of December 1979.
Technical assistance costs (13% of project total) have been estimated at
about $15,000/man-year for training and $80,000/man-year for specialist
services. The proposed Bank loan of $38.0 million (60% of total cost net of
duties and taxes) would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost and $6.0
million equivalent of local costs; the Government would finance the
remaining cost of $32.6 million. The justification for local cost financing
is set out in paragraph 21 of this report. The project costs and financing
plan do not, however, include $1.6 million of the costs for design services
which are being financed from the proceeds of Loan 1374-PH. The additional
annual recurrent expenditure generated by the project (excluding RCFTs) in
1984 would be about $3.6 million equivalent (at 1979 prices). This would
represent about 0.4% of the recurrent expenditure of MEC. The recurrent
cost required for seven RCFTs in full operation in 1984 is estimated at
about $0.9 million equivalent (at 1979 prices).  This accounts for 6% of the
total recurrent expenditure of the BFAR. The budget required for full
operation of the Centers would be allocated to BFAR (Section 4.03(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation
56.       EDPITAF would be responsible for implementing the physical aspects
of the proposed project, exercising financial control during implementation
and maintaining liaison with the Bank. Upon completion of the physical
facilities EDPITAF would hand over control of the project institutions to:
(a) the University of the Philippines system for the Fishery College; (b)
the Ministry of Education (MEC) for regional institutes; and (c) the Ministry
of Natural Resources (MNR) for fishery training centers. Master Plans for
the UPVCF have been prepared by local consultants with experience in campus
planning, who were assisted by a short-term foreign consultant. Local
consultants have been appointed for all project work; sketch plans have been
completed; and working drawings are expected to be ready by April 1980.
Supervision would be carried out by the same consultants. Designs and
specifications for project vessels have been prepared with the assistance of
FAO and foreign consultants. Supervision of the boat-building activities
would be carried out by local consultants.



- 19 -
57.       Sites.   In Miagao, 1,200 ha of land has been allocated for the
University of the Philippines in the Visayas. Sufficient land is available
at six of the seven Institute/Center sites, and additional land has been
earmarked for acquisition at the remaining site. All sites necessary for
project institutions would be legally acquired by May 31, 1980 (Section 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Schedule.  Master planners and consultant architects have been
recruited and working drawings are expected to be fully developed by April
1980. Tender documents for the first phase of equipment and vessel procure-
ment are expected to be completed by June 1980. Construction is expected to
start in January 1981 and to be completed by the end of 1983 and the fellow-
ship program by the end of 1984. The completion date would be December 31,
1984.
Procurement
59.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and fishing
training vessels ranging from 10 to 40 tons would be grouped, to th,e extent
possible, to form attractive bid packages and all major contracts would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Group Guidelines. Small contracts for dissimilar items, smaller
fishing training boats, or works at scattered locations would be unlikely to
attract foreign bidders and could, therefore, be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Government
procurement practices which are acceptable to the Bank. These would include
civil works contracts (total value less than $2.0 million), estimated to
cost less than $500,000 equivalent each, and furniture/equipment/vessels
bid packages (total value about $2.0 million), estimated to cost less than
$100,000 each. Local bidders for furniture, equipment and vessels would be
allowed a 15% preferential margin or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign
suppliers. Miscellaneous items in contracts not exceeding $25,000
equivalent and subject to an aggregate total of $500,000 equivalent, could
be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations. Books
would be procured directly from authorized distributors.
Disbursements
60.       The proposed loan of $38.0 million would be disbursed to meet: 40%
of the cost of civil works and furniture; 100% of foreign expenditure for
directly imported vessels, books, equipment and materials; 100% of the ex-
factory price of locally manufactured books, equipment and materials;
65% of the cost of locally procured equipment, books and materials and
vessels; 100% of the cost of specialist services and overseas training; and
65% of the cost of local fellowships. Disbursements are expected t:o be
completed by June 30, 1985.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
61.       Benefits.  The proposed project would help the Government imple-
ment its Integrated Fishery Development Plan by (a) rationalizing fishery
training programs and institutions, (b) providing manpower necessary for the
sector's development, and (c) improving research programs and capability.
The project would assist the Government in establishing a national fishery
training program comprising the UPVCF as the apex institution, seven
technician training institutions and seven fishermen training centers. The
UPVCF would contribute 30% of the 2,500 trained professionals needed over
the 1979-90 period and the seven Regional Institutes of Fishery Technology,
over 30% of the 12,500 technical manpower needed. The seven Regional
Centers for Fishermen Train'ing would reach over 65,000 fishermen during this
period, i.e., about 10% of the country's existing small-scale fishermen.
The Centers would also upgrade the quality of the extension force. The
nonformal courses in particular should lead to increased fishery output and
productivity. The project would assist in strengthening the fishery
research program and staff of UPVCF, mainly through the provision of
technical assistance. Research programs would be instituted to produce
technology and management methods suited to the Philippine fishery industry.
UPVCF's concentration on marine fishery should correct the past bias in
favor of aquaculture technology.
62.       Risks.  The Government has begun physical and financial infrastruc-
ture programs especially designed to help small-scale fishermen. The pro-
posed project is designed to assist these government programs with well-
trained professional and technical fishery manpower. Should the government
programs not proceed as envisaged, there would be a risk that an oversupply
of such manpower would be created. However, without the trained manpower to
be produced by the proposed project, the government programs would suffer.
63.       The largest potential for growth of fishery production has been
identified as marine fishery resources. However, there is a risk that
the present bias of research and training toward inland fishery could
continue, especially since most fishery research and teaching staff have
been primarily trained in fish biology or aquaculture. To establish marine
fishery as a sector priority, the project would: (a) finance fellowships
for teaching staff in marine fishery disciplines; (b) provide specialists'
services to develop curricula in these areas; and (c) establish a monitoring
and evaluation system to measure progress against desired results.
64.       Other risks are related to the effective operation of project
institutions. UPVCF might suffer from being unable to attract sufficiently
qualified staff during initial years of its operation. To reduce this risk,
the Government has developed a program of incentives. There could also be
a risk that social and political pressures would prevent the Government from
phasing out degree programs at the proposed Regional Institutes for Fishery
Technology. The Government therefore provided assurances that these
programs would be discontinued by 1984. Problems of coordination and



- 21 -
implementation could arise because two ministries (incXuding a weak exten-
sion service agency, BFAR) have responsibility for the Institutes and
Centers, and would share some facilities and large equipment items. To
minimize this risk, the Government would (a) establish a Regional F7ishery Training
Development Committee to be responsible for coordinating joint activities
between the Institutes and Centers, and (b) provide in-service training
programs for BFAR staff. Another risk is that project facilities, particularly
the 16 fishing training vessels and those facilities operated by BFAR, might
not be fully utilized and well maintained due to insufficient allocation of
operating funds. To reduce this risk, the Government has provided assurances
that sufficient budget funds would be allocated to utilize fully and maintain
project facilities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 26, 1979



-9 2 2 -ANNEX I
Page  1  of  5
TABUe 34
pILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICABS DATA S?U
REUUcc GROUPtS tADJUSSID AVEIIAGES
LAND AlE (THOUSAND SO.                     p MEILIPPII                   - RK St GUCLD  UTIABST
TOTAL           300.0                                                 SAKS       SAE      NM  TIG3C
AGRICULTURAL      6. 7                               UT u Cir C     CGRAOCIC    nCOME        iNCOmi
1960  /    1970  Z STI2I&TE         n RN  j   GROUP        G GROUP ~
GNP PU CAPITA (US8)                 140.0      230.0    510.0            5S28.9    467.5      1097.7
ENER  COES0PSION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQDIVYALrr)   147.0       301.0    329.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL SUTAISTICS
POPULATION, MIl-TEAR (MILLIONS)    27.4       36.9      44.5
UBA POPULATION (PUCUT 01 TOTAL) 30.1          31.8      34.0           27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PRO3CTIONS
POPULATION IN TUR 2000 (MLIONS)                       76.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     128.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION is R                     2075
POPULATION DLUSt?!
PER SQ. DC.                     91.0       123.0    148.0           154.8       45.3        44.6
m  SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0      472.0    513.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PZRCREN)
0-14 TnS.                       44.7        45.5      46.0           41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 Ys.                        52.3        53.6      51.0           54.9       51.9        55.3
65 YnS. AIM ABOVE                 3.0         2.9       3.0            3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GRONrE RTE (PECUNT)
TOTAL                            2.7         3.0       2.7            2.4        2.7         2.4
NRAI                             4.0         3.8       3.5            4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUDC 3IT  BATE (PE TEUSASD)      45.0        43.0      35.0           30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DVATE RATE (PU ThOUSND)    15.0         11.0       9.0            8.3       11.7         9.2
GROSS REPRDDUCTION RATS            3. Lf       3.3       2.4            2.1        2.7         2.2
FAkmILY PLANNING
:CEPTOBS. ANNUAL (TEODSAMS)        ..      191.7    643.0
EUSEtS (PERCENT o0  MARD  OM)   ..           2.0      22.0           34.1        3.2        34.7
FOOD AND ITITION
INDEX OF PWD PRODUCTION
PIR CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.1      101.0    111.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES (PGRCZS 0O
REQUIREMENTS)                  83.0       86.0      87.0          104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTSINS (GRACSIR DAT)          44.0        45.0      50.0           57.4       54.3        64.4
OF WEICH ANIMtL AND PULSE      19.0oLs    22.0      19.2            16.9      17.4        23.5
CHI  (AGES 1-4) )OTALITT RATE      16.0       10.0       7.0            4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EIPECMANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)   51.0       57.0      60.0           61.1       54.7        60.2
INFANT RORTALITY RATE (PEU
TMOUSAND)                         98.0        SQ. 0     65 . 0         46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT 0O
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      39.0           21.9       34.4        60.8
URBA2N                            ..          ..      51.0           46.2       57.9        75.7
aURAL                             ..          ..      33.0           12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS 10 EXCRLETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      56.0           28.4       40.8        46.0
URBAN                             ..          ..      76.0           65.0       71.3       46.0
RURAL                             ..          ..      44.0           14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..          ..   3150.0          3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PE YURS7Ji  PISON        ..      340.0   4990.0           1107.4    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PE HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1180.0      850.0    880.0           613.3      726.5       453.4
TJRBN                              ..         ..        ..          203.6      272.7       253.1
RUORL                              ..         ..        ..         1110.3    1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PEtI HOSPITAL IED        ..          ..        ..           23.9       27.5        22.1
EOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIOLD
TOTAL                             5.8        5.9       ..             5.2        5.4         5.3
URAN                              ..         6.2       ..              ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL                              *-        5.8        ..             ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE VOMBER OF PERlSONS PE ROOM
TOTAL                              -         2.3        * -            *                     1. 9
MBAN                               ..        2.1        ..             ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                             ..         2.4        ..             ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS -0 ELECTRICrT! (PERCENT
OF l.ELL!INGS)
TOTAL                            16.5       22.9/h   31.0              ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                              ..       62.8h       ..             ..       .5.i        71.7
ARL1AL                             ..        5.8h    10.0              .         9. .9      17.3



-23-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AAylLES
-  OST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME       SAltE    SEXT HIi3E
NOST RECENT     ZOGRAUPIC   INCOIME      INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIAE /b        REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROIUP L
EDUCATION
AJUSTED MROLLMENT RATIOS
MIuART:    TOTAL                 95.0       114.0    105.0             97.9       82.7       102.5
MALE                98.0        115.0    102.0            98.7       87.3       108.6
FEKALE              93.0       113.0    109.0             97.4       75.8        97.1
SECDNDARY:  TOTAL                26.0        50.0      56.0            42.2       21.4        33.5
MALE                 28.0        59.0     65.0'           46.7       33.0        38.4
FEMALE              25.0        42.O      47.0            40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL EIROL. (Z O SECONDUIY)  15.0        6.0        ..            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACKER RATIO
n.-Kw11_                         36.0        29.0      29.0            32.5       34.1        35.8
SECONL-..                        27.0        33.0      31.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
ADULT LIcA.LY RATE (PERCENT)       71.9        82.6      87.0            84.1       54.0        64.D
CCSSUMPIlu I
ASSENSGa CAMS PER TEOIJSAD
POFP..Arias                       3.0         8.0       8.9             6.1        9.3        13.5
XADIO RECEIVERS PER TP5'SAND
POPULATION                       22.0        39.0      44.0            84.4       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIOI                        1.4        10.0      17.0            22.4       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY ",UER&L
INTEREST-) CIRiCULA?ION E
THOUSAND POPULATION                17.0        14.0      18.0            24.2       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTFNDANCE PIR aAPITA  0.6         ..       7.6             3.6        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
ETALLAWR FOCE (TEDUSANDS)    10100.0    12400.0  16244.0
FSMALE (PERCENr)                 34.4        33.1      35.3            36.7       29.2        25.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            61.0        55.0      50.9            54.6       62.7        43.5
L,DiISTRY (PERCENT)              15.2        15.8      16.8            16.3       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              39.8        36.6      35.3            40.7       37.1        33.5
MALE                               52.1-       48.6      47.1            49.9       48.8        48.0
FEAIUE                             27.4        24.4      23.3            31.0       20.4        11.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.4       1.3             1.1        1.1         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT oF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8         ..        ..            14.9       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PnCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2        53.9      53.3            46.8       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2        3.7       5.5             6.2        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9       11.9      14.7            16.8       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERET INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    250.0            193.1      241.3       270.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    190.0            128.7      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVER1Y INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    132.0            136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      87.0            96.8      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      39.0            32.0       24.8        20.5
RURAL                              *-          *-      44.0            52.5       37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excludinig the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, becweeni 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  .e  Intermediate Middle Income
(5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  If  1950-55;  !g  Av. 1960-62;  /h  1967, households.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is fcr 1978.
August. 1979



- 24 A- 
PULP==_____CT_____A _                                                                        Page   3   of   5
ote.j:  Altheng   ob. 'rio  o   demO  trom  -n.oo   g.nw.1-aU   lodged tine _.t antho-it.tir. and -eliobl., it  ho.aId ol.n b. ntd thet thy a-p not be iote.-.
tionolly compar.bl. booto  of the Lack  f ots-'ordl,.d defoinitno  sad eon.apt. 'nod by dif forest no-tri.. in oo..letins the date. Th. data ore, nonothl.ios,
ojelu  to Ge-cit. nod-?  of moeitu.", iudlot. 'rondo, ood ohor.toize  oortl±o eior differane.. b.t.oaa  cow-trio.m
Th.  Wvt3j edro.    e                -ofr  ah indicator woe popw.t.to-eei9ht.d gecetric aaac., exliuddg theors. -         value.aof the i.4d-totr and tie  -.t Ppoolatd
coonr, t  eoo  gen-b  t.e 1o-ak of do.-, dop  -e,u-. of .11 i.djeatore fr Capital urpl... Oil E.M.20tr  od of indi.atOrv of An.e.. no Vato  and focreta
Oipn "i iJAtlG, Toon. Distrihutio: endPO          -stfor other otntry von,,s org-.itonw1gide tric aanno oith-et oooloi- of the entrene. v,..od
th. mat pe.oatod oenotry.  Slot. t.oe,.   f  onAtrios mmo the iniaiodnod   ooola.bility of dat. end I.  ot ufor. footio  mot he enm..eod
1 I'ticoorat     ieon   h          cater tnd rwfhatno  aTh-                                     aMr.
Af  Pdth . . and  qc.k..)                                                              A-oce  to  E.orata Di.now   pret  fpno.tie    o.                    -Ilho. end rura
70101- Toal.  utfee are  oomriwl   led  -are  end i0land oatr.-                   kbite   of peol  (total,  .Ined                   onm].   sevdb   nrta  ipoai
AartcoItwa.re.  -  Meaot r-et estimate of ogooiltoura1 o-e   .d teaporwrily                  per_etwa. of their r-opcti- pwnlatiOoo.. trEt. dl,poo.J, noy Indlde
or p.rm-etir for  -rpe, ventur.,  -krht ..d uitobn g.rd-n  or to                          the onflontion ed di.posel, with -f niti0-t tr"tesio, of h-m  no-rt.
lie. fellow                                                                                no  wete-nat.r by -tanr-horn  ypet-m  or the  -u  of pit prioi.. nod coilar
GNP 8! CA   (US$) - NP Par .&it. ..tim.. at  -rat -rk".net.ll.tiono.
ca.i."t.. by -am  I .= 5r*i  tOdi   - ootito    0an  AtWOmO  5.00G- peiwo.           Mww-M~im            lei~    Popoition  dieddd by womor of precti.ing physiotana
Oe.iCon.hy om   nnomyano sothd en 5054 lee  hObo  i76-78jhni.);                               onhool at eniw-wityr temi.
1960, 1970, end i9P78 data.                                                                fnw.io   o  fosag  esn-Pelto    ide  b    iC    fprcti ei
- Aea.l  oeeumptio of ooeiol enee        nod f m.               Parana -OO   Ppnectiol    dlde.,ed bynoi.sao  pracn..   g-1
the.i  iwerioty)in khilogres  of ooal oq.irolt per npit.; 1960,                        en   w.   iie  b   hi  mpoiv                      ro   eptaL hnenilabie L.
in:,  ...  1976 dt.0.                                                                        phllo end private  anara.l end  Vwoiahined beotpit.L end rhhl l..act-r..
Hoopitol.. aro   oobi  esparameS   otffod by at 1-mt  -o  p'Wi.io.
POFVJATION v s11 s                                                     g~~~~~~~~~~~~~to.hieeetelsbW   prw-wd]eg pri..ipallys noutodial 00r0 ar* wto iolndsd. Morel
Total                                       A  of Jo.4. 1; 1960, 1970, end                   ho.pito..o, hoea-.,, twciood  heelth end MieaL  -ater  not gaahmanntly otffod
1977 data,                                                                                bY . P.loii-  (hbt by .aaftdial oieteet.  o... eid'if., st..) which off.,
Urhn  Prw.o.aiOn(ocn  oftt                R  atio of u0b- to totai PePl.Itino;               i.-petient ano-.dtiino    d pw-rid  a listed rena  of aadit.i foelitie..
difewtdfntion. of -ure   --w aay effet -oeperahility of d.t.                                     ~                         oAL flo"e  of  ddx.ia.o to or diooboe.o f-n
-eng --tunre; 1960, 1970, end 1973 ILta.                                                                   i1t1r               of hod..
%vulatir~ ~~          Curret psattoproletions are holed on                      OUtlIG
1973 ttepoetiwby age end won ed their antoAity end fertility                          Ae..Snofioohd  nro                         h0se   bd    otl   re   edsoe
canoe. PrVJetion porw.etwr. for nertality rate. v-wrto  of thrw..                       A to..ohod -usiete o  apsow-p o_f inlhnl   h                 Horuin   q,ster  end
1Maci no.oeiog  lfe enpeotono  ai birth loor-a,ing 00th o-tnryl.                        their  .al. e1.o.  A boarder or loger  -y or my not ho L-]--d-   in tn.
per -Pito  oon. 10001, end feaalo  life eopbt-ny wtsilialwg at                          to....hold for otti.tihal p.rpe.-..
77.5 year.   The poramt... for fe-tiiity int. ome  h-rn thre  I.-I.0                  Ar-'.e number of   ron  pe- n.   otlure   end rorel  A-rage mashr
-ie.9nn  dooIine in fertility  -oording to lon-    1-01 end punt                        of Pr,-n  Per, oeinal                      --In ndooe  nenpT1.1 eoioe  desollge,
fenilY n1iomo  Perforaa.o. 0.01 onotly 1i0.. fh         e igned one of th...            r-peotiewly.  teo1i.ig   -oeInd. n-porm.omat ot-t-o.re  end  -ewupid part..
tie    i-istion. of mortality .0d f-rtility trend. for pr.jentlo                    or.t  Iethiy(oreto   we.ime    tta.- obno. and rnra   -coo-
perpoe..vnioldnieo0teleroy  in liri     quertor. e- perwotoge If
Stato      t       in:M  - lo aotaionm7 PePolotion th-r  iw no growth                     total, mnbe, end ru-LI dwLling.  uspaetioly.
iNiiho  hblrthite.   eolto the d-ath rate, end 01.0 tho eg.
etroot`onreai. ow           TetOhio in nohiO"-eo.SS -ft.r fertility rates           EtXt5ATION
d-lino     tthe P rpea-It 10001 of unit te  reprndnotion rate, noonrll t                                         .
eeoh .gnrto    f w-an  -ePI--o itoelf  -owtLy.  Th. etetIony pe.P.-                     Prinary n.ohonl -to       e i. odfema.1    Green itel., eeLe end foe.]. en1ol-
Intion...   000  eatime  on the bui.i  of the ponoted oh--.ro ri.tine                     eat of all 0g.. at thepor   ise-l   P-antenate- of r!e.Pcti-e pri-ary
of the  popoltion i. the Ye-  2000, nod tne rtr of doolino of fertility                   nooiopop.n.ation.; eeraally Linlde. ohildren .ged  -il. yea. btn
ra-te to reploom.t leve.                                                           -         dinted for dlffnret length. of prisary eduation; for -Outrie. with
Goar otaiio=  nonaltion Is reoched - 'The year' when stationary popsetion                    ..i-reral wd-.otioo  -011aa.et eqy wneud 1OD pertot wince wo-  pLpil.
nin  hb e.Oeo ,arehlen or ehov  the offiola  oohnol  Wg.
Peren It.       -id-yw   Ppoeition Per  q-u-r- kIl t.etr (tnt hattar..) of                    ed-..tioO  reqire   a   le      oryawof opproe-d prienry inetrution;
total ore.                                                                                p-eid-e genral owctiowl  or t-onher training inatrutiOn-  for pupol.
Perno    . orOi=l100-Compted en  bhor  for  grioultorei 1.04                                u.o.ly of 125 W 17 Yeor  of .g;  -nrepnnd-ne  o-ome  are g-wrliy
only.          .                                                                          eld.d.
P.Meo ation Ade StMot.' -Oernt) - Children (0_1 -lfe ),  -oring-ege                         Voational eor1llt (Fre..   f ncae                     ocatin... I ientitoti.n. in-lud.
(15-hiY.. fee,t and Meired (65 Y-o'  end  -00) en p-entzge  of  did-yew,                    teoheial,  edorl,or othe  prwgr. . o h  perein independently or en
pepoIntino; 1960, 1970, dOd 1977 dt.0.                                                       d.pnrtentw  of wetntdor  ientitotin.-
tn i.io  Growth  ete  -eeti -              Aotl - 00-n ortoh rain. of total nId-         P.pi-.         1errti :-oie4 .ed  en .o   - Total otd.nte rei'olld in
Yew.e-     itir  foI900,in-0   e   970-77.                                                   prion-Yno   eodr  le-i    inae  ny w-eh.r  of t-eher. 00 the  -orre-
,ow-ultion Growth Rat  pe-et  - trbo-  An.M..] 9-wth rote. of -.rhe                             ponding lwe
peplotoo   fo  190-o, pI -70, no  1970-775.                                -        800ltrn   ae(eoni-lltrnt. ndnlt.  oable tn rend end -rit,)n
C-d4. Bir9oth  ,iAfor       9nd( - AnnoeL thee birth, Per thotnod of aid-                    ad  pe1_lrnen yg of total edult pepell.ti    Mgan 1.5 Yea-ndo-r
yew, P--i            "        Inod 1977 8t.0
cr". D-th  .tw r    ll -oloooo  dnt             thoper   abono  ot Kidye,      CUMfI
pope                           197  ote                                                 PoeogM Care (par thnnwed oono.ltion(-Pn.ornr   -ompis  aotoror
Gros  Rere-dutiot Rate  A- hvr. tunb.r of doughterw: ot.n oii  hew,                          wetie  e   then ought  _eeno    nolde  enhl-.oon     h-uoe  end ei1itnry
it her  oral reProd-cti-e perid if nh. -roeieee   Prueno   wge-                            -ehiolee.
openifin  fertility rote.;  -eai.iy flo-year eerwg.w  endiog in 1960,                   OwrdIn Reir.ro  oe  huen   n-itinn(   All type, of reei-r  'Or r.di.
l9O'S nod 1975.-                                                                           rodoeot  to geerl  ehinpr1th--.nd of pepeotion; ... ud.. uli-ennd
Family Kneeing - Aoo-Stor   Annua (thusedo in- doa  neirof                                   reoirr-oin   ttrie4 end in Y-ar  -h.. -egi.trtion  of -di.ii  neos  ne 
nOoeptr. of blri-ho-tro  de-io            une   o  ie    f tationl fOinly                  effet; data for r-nt yeare  -nY not he  -pr.rble wino. na t oontiee1
plonoi`g Psogee.                                                                          oboti.hd li-enig.
PwiyPlooi.g - Uner  (P.--et of envied  -owet  . Perontoge of naried                   fT teoirre  pe  thon~an-e o         I ..n   - TV  -eci-e   for broadcst t. general
oa of ohild-booring  are (tO15   paw   1... onbirth-ootro  d-vi-r                       oho   e   huodpp.sin include. -onl.....ed TV r-i-rer  in  -outrien
to  Il rind  momn in e.-   . wge s R                                                      000 in year. whe r-giwtration of TV net. wn inffent.
FOOD AND MMITIOR                                                     N-W11,11;~~~~~~~t.ee.pe   ticn.io  (ner tinu-od n tOsn    - Sheno, the  -rerge Oilrn tion
00d0  ofP SiRIIO                                                                              of8iygnrlItro    eaoe      eie   nopriodical pehliootion
Inde 00  000  O Otionper O~P.ito (.1969-.71-100) -tlode  of Pe   tptt                  droted priewily tn retordig general tenow.  rt ie o,idwr.d to be "daily'
oona  Proution ofeI.f ood           _dtire. Pnutiow  -nldr  nee..d ndIf It tpp.". ot teet fou  tle-.e    -Afl.
feed end in on o-1enhe  por ba,iO.  Cninditie. ooenr pri-'Y goodet                      Cine.. Annua Attend-oosoher Cant.tnor Gea    B- Od     the tuehbr If t icketo
(e.g. eugartn  inoteod of  ugar)  h ich ore edible nod  _otnin tutr,et                    coddrn   h   e,   nldingseehn   odiwAnvn.,  n   oi
e..cffee end ten or  wonluded).  Agbreg.te predntion of ea-h -noory                   -i.
In huned n-  -atl.la nergepnnnrpic   nihe                                                 Oh
Per canit. sto-ly of caoiLlereto   ecieetl-  optdfrO1020Rnc
enema eoirslen  of or   food                                                                Frpin  o  oiei   notypr  siothouenods  - &-sniclS.15  ati- pereon, 1soindig. tintd
prdyp.  Ow-a ilaie opplirn  -neri.e d-rti. produtIon, Leprt. les                      forn- end u_eplIi&hb,t Ieclding hb. . .ive, student.  et. D.Mft-ito
e-Pert, end ohengeo in stoi.  Met oppiiee  -oelde en-Le  feed, tende,                   Ic vrin ... o-tri.. are wot onwper.ble.
net.nee.tinntrd by fAG he..ed on phy.ioigia  ned. for normol                       I                       lbo   ore  n  amigfrer,hutgo
oo tt   n  heath ....siderlg e-iroeeeote,l tmeatr,boy ighto                      f ~       _M !'iij'i'i9n.onf total labor fore..-
gr end son dietributino  of popuLation, nod .1l.ioig 10 pecet for                     1.d..ty   (p-anpt) - Laior- for-  to eIaig          onercin, ofooturng nod
nente at housebid leve.                                                                 eI-lier.itY, -ter ed gen             .  an .eeetwgo of total labor fnree.
Per -nnitn anni of  rot'o.n o,rwe  Par dwr( -  rt7-Otn  Oae etnnninnt  ecet) -ot.tl. -I.. end r-1al  - Perticip.tien o
noio  etepyly of food Per ds. let ouPPIYofod                    P: wne  en        ntivi_tyrte1.&tare ompotod en total, ei.1e, nod fewair labor force en Per-
nho.. Reqoirnet. ffr all vn-tr,eo. eseii d by USD20 prwide fo.rf a                       stegeo o  toalei  end f-male pe;alativo of .1.1 ages reepentioniy;
oaimo  eliwne nO  o  ro.of  toa   etei  Per d1W nod S0 grw    o                         i96, 197, end I975 da.  Th.se  -r  LLO'. partioupotion  raet. rflecting
nieal nod m.Ice prnte,o  dhheh 10 gr-.  ohotld he enima  protein.                       ng-e    trcur   f the Peelotion, end 10.5 tIe. treod.  A few ewtieatee
Thss. standar-doso  loeno then tienen of 7-5 ge..a nf total protein  WAor  frentional  wor,ewo.
25 jew.. nf enimo  Protein en  no h-neg  for the  -Ird, prepee.d by PAO               k9p  -iL..Daj pqgOr   Ratiog.Ri  o.f pnsl.tiw  under 15 end 65 end ort
in the Third World Food Survy,                                                                            in gw_ etpo  1-1pae
Pe nnta nenteiw sely fro   oniwa ond pnoise  - Protein otnply of fond
deried (&,14 frot eitaeen le Ha110 rwe pe r day.
Cidl e. ih Itotlt   aenrthnuand~ - Ah-1al death, per thonoend                       "eeotag, or Private Som- (otph in ono en  kood) - Coochied by rioheet
In ege grou  1-I yer, to ChIldren in thi. og   o-p; for moot deewi-                       9 pereant   --oeO   20 pereni  per.t  M0po             , and pooret h0 percnt
opiNg vetrie. dota derird fro  Iitf  tabew                                                of h-nshld..
HEALTH                                                                                    POVPWT TAOli  GRtOUPS
Life E:= teo 00hrt Wrr                A -Arerge  -oeh- of p-  of life                      oiao   hnriePerrlo. lorel~~ (La                   e Iapita(- ome  end enrl 
ro,Sein  atbirt; 150,197, nd1977. dtna.                                            Ahe-int  penrty lecomle'rl0   htiom1ww   e    whihaln l
lofent lertaiyRt          lethoed -Onalrtbnf inxtent   ndr-n ...otrititnnallY aeq-ntn diet PIu . ....ntial .0-fun   _otarnoot: Ts so
Year of age per tho-and li-e birth..                                                      affrdable.
ho-eo .to Safe Vter (Dercet of to tei-n  - totalohs  o   url-                             RtetdReoieR;-t mn.lei(20   e   aO)-uro  n   na 
tneropnirtotal, urbuo, endartra   with                                          Fftnhl   vre   oRral r;itr   peew_ rty in.   ee  ie- I ne-t ir of   ane  e  rpt
.so.  eter eupl  lonld:. t-ente   urfeo c- ater. or untreated hut                         Personal ien   of the  -netry. Urown lev1 in d.rlnsd fro  the rura  leve
uoonttelaie.td eater env.n  that fec  Protetd  boeoe    prings                            00th "dietmont for higher onot nf living he urhe  ar-a.,
nod ee-itor   o (a  preeentegew  of thei  r-enPw  -y  pct.Piatinne - In                 Retinoted Pweulation kI. Ahb.sito-vet  len ows (rrcet)  - bure end
200 ntere  ree     ow-o mayhe tonodporeda  heog withi  ron- nahir"-'
a oe r o  that house   Rnrral- area.. ....ennable W-ne   -Iud iiVy
that tho h-.-eeif. nr esehes of the houshold dn not hare to .Pned atoon ic anod Sonial Data Dioiein
di.ne_pertLosate port of the dsp in fetohing the fniiy. e ot.r nead.                                                        ft.nanmi  Aa.Lysie ed Penientinne  Depar~te.t
AogteOt 1979



ANNEX I
-   25  -                                                      Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Annual average           1979
Actual                      Est.             Projected                        growth rates (%)         share
1972    1975    1976    1977    1978         1979       1980       1981        1985     1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of GDP
National Accounts (millions
of US$ at 1975 prices and
exchange rates)
GDP                             12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,077   21,298    22,594    29,392                6.5       6.1       6.6        100.0
Terms of trade adjustment          168        0    -456    -613        -70        -70      -387       -465       -262        -         -         -            -
GDY                             13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129                6.1        5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - constant prices        3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489          5,865    6,068       6,484      8,271        8.8       5.2        6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices        3,020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592          4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022        7.2        2.8     10.6         22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade            3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359         4,355    4,464        4,897      7,760        5.4       1.2      11.6        21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133        768   1,129       1,510     1,604      1,586        511        -         -         -            7.5
Consumption                     10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861         15,646   16,393      17,262     21,421         5.2       8.8      5.5         77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)        2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963          5,822    6,176       6,552      8,524       12.2       1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                 3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743          4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410        7.9        2.1      11.2        23.5
fnesLii  savings                2;°76   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833          4,537     4,807      5,227      7,328        9.0      -0.3       8.8         22.6
Sector Output (millions of
US$ at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                      3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385          5,417    5,688       5,972      7,259        5.1       2.7       5.0         27.0
Industry /a                      4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,690          7,043    7,536       8,064    11,061         8.6       6.2       8.0         35.1
Services                         4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853          7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072         6.0       8.5       6.5         37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price index                47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2          117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3       13.1      11.4        7.9         -
Import price index                44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5          119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4       15.1      13.2        6.8         -
Terms of trade index             105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9           98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6       1.0          -
Selected Indicators
ICOR /b                            4.5      3.4      3.4      3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Import elasticity                 0.93    0.59      1.24    1.22    2.32         1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average savings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3           23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Imports/GDP                       25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0           29.2      28.5       28.7       28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5              29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GQr                   0.9      7.1      6.7      4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5        7.2        1.7
Public Finance                      1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)              --- (% of GDP in current prices) ---                Labor Force in 127   -              H'L''_' -
Current revenue                   12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                  Agriculture
Tax Tevenue                        9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                  Industry                             2.7      ls.2
Current expenditure               13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                  Services                             5.6      3'.0
Current surplus                    0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6      2.7              Unemployed                           1.i       0.4
Capital expenditures               1.9      3.0      3.5      3.4      4.1
Total Labor  ,t.e              11.1     !00.0
/a  Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
/b  The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asia and Pacific Region
Ncember 1979



2 6   -                       ~~~~~~~AIIIZX I
- 2 6                                        pa.-  of 5
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
Actual                  ~~~~~~Est.       Prolented
1972       1973      1976       1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1985
Somary of Balance of Payments
E.ports (0NFS)                             1,432      3,000      3,330      4,021    4,555    5,230    6,040    7,030    14,475
Imports (GNFS)                             1,484      4,116      4,383      4,780    5,735    6,960    8,060    9,245        15,820
Resource balance                             -52    -1,116    -1,053         -767   -1,180   -1,730   -2,020   -2,215    -1.345
Net factor service income Ia                -125       -126       -323      -320       -406     -190      -280      -365       -655
Interest (net)                             -93        -65      -185       .240      -261      -315      -405      -475       -725
Direct i-vets.ent Income (net)             -32        -61       -138        -80     -145       125       125       110         70
8alunce on goods & services                 -177    -1,242    -1,376    -1,087   -1,586   -1,920   -2,300   -2,580    -2,000
Trausfers (net)                              188        318        269        260       312       340      370       400        600
Corrent Account Balance                     11       -924    -1,107       -827   -1,274   -1,580   -1.930   -2.180    -1.400
Direct investment (net)                      -22        125        144        216       163       150       150      170        250
Pubilc liLT lose disbursements               235        349        869        903    1,035    1,175    1.549       1,782      2,224
Repayments                                 -78       -118       -165       -163     -419      -465      -531      -507    -1,130
Net disborsementn                          157        231        704        740       616      710    1,018      1,275      1,094
Other MLT loan disbursneentn                 137        331        538        326       740       349      685       778      1,156
Repayments                                -154       -205       -202       -381     -522      -295      -333      -363       -870
Net disbursements                          -17        126        336        -55       218       54       352       415        286
Total MLT m.ar disburse.ents                 372        680      1,407      1,229    1,775    1,524    2,234       2,560      3,380
Repayments                                -232       -323       -369       -544     -941      -760      -864      -870    -2,000
Net dinburnenents                          140        357      1,040        685      834       764    1,370      1,690      1,380
Net dra-i.g  on IMF Lb                         7        110        214         79        24        98        -         -          -
Short-t-rn capital (net)                      56        102        -96        312       146       100      110       120        170
Capital tra-sucti.nn, n.e.i./b               -98        292        -35       -300        53      -32         -         -          -
Change in net reserves (- - incruo)          -94        521        160       -164        54       500      300       200       -400
loternationa.  reserves (end-year) /c        551      1,358      1,640      1,525    1,883    1,383    1,083         883      2,183
Grants and Loan Cosaitments
Official grants                              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total pebilc l.ane                         422.0      769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IFRD                                      29.5      114.0      226.0     317.5      533.0
IDA                                       10.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      26.0
Other nultilateral                        43.3      106.0       64.2      207.3      189.2
Gnver..ents                              275.5      182.3      391.6      122.3      370.4
of ehibh CPE                             0.0       13.2        5.9       0.0        0.0
Suppli-ra                                  2.0       52.5       52.0      194.2       76.7
Finenciul institutioun                    61.7      314.6      476.4      341.7   1,000.5
Bondu                                      0.0        0.0      367.2      129.7     219.2
Other MLT I.ann                            130.0      283.0      603.6      134.8      914.0
Memorandum Items
Grunt elosent of cositsents                 28.0       16.4        8.8       14.7       16.8
Average interest (Z)                         5.4        7.4        8.3        7.9        7.4
Average maturity (ye-rs)                    17.3       16.7       13.1       15.3       15.9
Medium & Long-Term Debt (dinburand only)
Total debt oututandiog (eud of
period)                                1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Iocluding undinbursed                    2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt service                       -149.6    -225.3    -239.2  - -441.9    -468.1
of ,hicb:  interest                      -51.6      -73.0      -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other KLT debt service                    -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Total debt service                        -317.2    -358.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Debt Burden
Outstanding
Debt service ratio                          22.1       14.9       15.7       18.0       20.0                           Guebe  31. 1978
Debt  -ecvice ratio Id                      22.7       15.6       16.4       19.5       20.6                         Anunt  Percent
Debt servIce/GDP                             3.8        3.0        2.9        3.7        4.0   Eaternal Debt        (US1  mis)
Public debt sevice/go- .neent                                                                  (dinbursed only)
revenum                                   17.0        9.1        9.9       12.0      20.1      IBRD                  546    13.0
Back Grcup            576    13.8
Terns                                                                                               Other multI-
lateral            277      6.6
Interest on total DOD/totul DOD              6.1        5.4        4.1        6.4        4.0     Governments         1,039    24.8
Total debt servic/total 0D0                17.7       16.9       10.5       15.8       13.3     Supp7iers             271      6.5
Dependency Ratios                                                                                     institution-      1,254    29.9
Bno,ds                771    18.4
Gross dibsursementslImportn (GNFS)          30.2       21.4       37.9       28.7       34.3     Total pubIlc
Net transfer/importu (GNFS)                 12.7        7.7        6.1        5.4        5.4        MLT debt         4,188   100.0
Net transfer/gross dlnbursements            41.9       36.2       16.2       18.9       23.2     Other MLT debt    2,651    63.3
Other MLT debt
cano...re                                                                                             (fou. o--
dib.ursed)       3,293    78.6
I8RD disb./gross total disb.                 4.7        9.8        5.5        7.4        8.3     Total public
Bank Group dlb./gr... total disb.           4.8       10.7        6.2        7.5        8.3        debt (incl.
IBRD DOD/total WDO                           7.8        8.0        7.2        7.3        8.0       undisbursed)    7,563   180.6
Bank Growp DO/tutal DOD                      7.8        8.6        7.8        7.8        8.4     Total MLT debt
18RD debt service/total debt service         4.4        5.5        6.6        5.6        6.9        finc. un-
Bsnk Group debt  erv./tot-l debt. mccv.   4.4           5.6        6.7        5.6        7.0        disbursed)      10.856   259.2
Is  Remittances of Filipinos employed  broad are Included for 1972-78 in  'Transfers" ad 1979-85 in 'Direct Invetmest Inn-e.
2b  For projectlon parpeses "Net drn gings on IMF" ad "Capital tre.sac tions  n.e.i." are assum.ed to cannel nut each other.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bsan  ("International reserves", IFS).
d Includes net direct investment Income.
East Asia and Psoific Region
November 1979



ANNEX II
-27 -                            Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1979
Loan or
Credit                                                                      Amounts  ($ million)
Number    FY      Borrower                Purpose                         Bank    IDA  Undislbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                           271.0   19.5
720-PH   1971           "                Rice Processing & Storage        14.3                1.4
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                               22.0                1.2
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Education II                                12.7        0.5
939-PH   1973           "                Ports                             6.1                0.3
950-PH   1973           "                Second Highways                  68.0                1.7
984-PH   1974           "                Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                   2.8
998-PH   1974           "                DFC-DBP I                        50.0                4.1
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                               61.0                4.5
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                          25.0               13.3
1048-PH   1974           "                Shipping                         20.0               11.2
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  DFC                                 30.0                7.0
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                   17.0                7.6
1102-PH   1975           "                Rural Development                25.0               14.6
1120-PH   1975           "                Small & Medium Industries        30.0                2.6
1154-PH   1976           "                Magat Irrigation                 42.0               22.5
1190-PH   1976           "                DFC-DPB II                       75.0               12.7
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                    25.0               16.4
1225-PH   1976                            Livestock II                     20.5                8.2
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                 50.0               39.1
1272-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                     10.0                6.7
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                     22.0               14.7
1269-PH   1976                            Second Grain Processing          11.5               10.8
1270-PH   1976                            Second Fisheries                 12.0                6.9
1353-PH   1977                            Third Highways                   95.0               76.4
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                15.0               10.2
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                 25.0               18.0
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                               36.5               23.6
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                  41.5
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                  18.8
1421-PH   1977                            2nd Rural Dev. Land Stlmt.    15.0                  13.9
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                       58.0               56.9
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming          8.0                7.9
1514-PH   1978 Philp. National Bank    DFC (PDCP)                          30.0               28.1
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                  58.1
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                     28.0       27.9
S.8-PH   1978                            Education                         2.0                1.9
1547-PH   1978                            Rural Electrification            60.0               57.3
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC-PISO                            15.0                7.2
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        MAGAT II                        150.0              108.7
1572-PH   1978           "                Industrial Investment III        80.0               68.2
1615-PH   1978                            Manila Water Supply II           88.0               88.0
1626-PH   1979           "                National Extension               35.0               35.0
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose         21.0               20.9
1646-PH   1979                            Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                  16.2
1647-PH   1979                            Second Urban Development         32.0               31.4
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                     100.0              100.0
1710-PH*  1979                            Water Supply II                  16.0               16.0
920-PH*  1979                            Water Supply II                          22.0       22.0
1727-PH*  1979                            Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                  25.0
923-PH** 1979                            Population II                            40.0       40.0
Total                                                               1,970.9  122.2   1,229.9
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                           145.8
Total now outstanding                                               1,825.1  122.2
Amount sold                                              23.9
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                       15.2           8.7      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                             1,816.4  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                   1.139.5   90.4   1,229.9
* Not yet effective.
** Effective October 15, 1979.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1979
Fiscal                                                        Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the          15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -      8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -       4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              4.5       -      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2      2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0       -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5           0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0       -       7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5       -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1           -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                     4.0      1.1      5.1
Total gross commitments                        77.1    16.6    93.7
Less sold, acquired by others,               31.9    12.1    44.0
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              45.2      4.5    49.7
Undisbursed                                     7.6      1.1     8.7



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
The original project concept of constructing integrated large
capacity rice mills was amended in 1972 and the emphasis shifted to rehabili-
tation of existing rice milling facilities. A further amendment in 1974
included corn in addition to rice, enabled local governments and the National
Grains Authority to borrow funds under the project, and streamlined
procurement procedures. The project is now progressing satisfactorily and
most mills are working to near capacity. Arrears are still a cause for
concern, and DBP has been asked to step up its supervision and technical and
management assistance to help deal with this problem. Bank funds have been
fully committed; however, because of the long construction period for some of
the larger subprojects, the Closing Date has been postponed to September 30,
1980.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels has been completed. Diversion from one
of the two dams started in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule.
There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the service area
improvement works and, following award, some additional delays were
experienced due to an extended period for irrigation water delivery in 1977.
These setbacks have caused a two-year delay in project completion which is
now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report: any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 60% of project
works completed against the appraisal target of 75%. Due to initial delays
and recent shortages of fuel and cement, the project is likely to be com-
pleted in June 1981. The total project area is likely to be reduced by
about 3,500 ha due to flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Project cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $36.5
million, with the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced
from 15% at appraisal to about 12%.
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16. 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
As of March 1979, physical implementation of the irrigation and
drainage components was about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays
in contract award and recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies,
construction has slowed down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation
system contract has been awarded, progress is expected to improve. The
road subprolect is about 66% complete. Disbursements are slow, with only
25% of the loan amount allocated for road works so far disbursed. Physical
progress has been slow, and shortages in fuel and cement have prevented any
improvement in the construction rate. Implementation of the roads
subproject is expected to be completed in June 1980.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management
training is continuing satisfactorily. A delay in the contract award for
improvements to the project diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in
the completion of the project.



-31 -
ANNEX II
Page! 5 of 17
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to dominate the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) livestock project lending
activities, with subloans for beef production development lagging wvell
behind appraisal estimates. As a consequence, the project's list of goods
has been amended to allow for this fact. Disbursements are in line with
appraisal projections but subloan commitments are running ahead of schedule.
Project funds will probably be fully-committed either in late 1979 or in
early 1980. Repayments of principal of the majority of DBP's borrowers
under the project are still under grace but a build-up of interest arrears
is beginning to emerge. As of June 30, 1979, principal and interest
arrears under the first phase project had reached about 25% of the portfolio.
We have assisted DBP with the development of an intensive action-oriented
collection program which is now under implementation. Thanks to government
approval of increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its
staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure
have been instituted and other organizational developments are under
consideration. The Bank is involved in a continuing dialogue with DBP on
various institutional issues.
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8. 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equpment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Since the contracts were awarded,
however, progress has been satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers are making
good profits. DBP has undertaken to assist the smaller millers with limited
technical and management assistance, which should result in better repayments.
Demand for subloans has, however, been slowed down by what is perceived by
prospective applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. To assist DBP
improve their operations, the Bank has provided them with a list of detailed
recommendations on actions to be taken.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveniess: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increasod deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan should be fully committed by mid-1979,
over 18 months ah-ad of schedule.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
NIA's force account operations on access roads and drains has
improved following delivery of construction equipment in December 1978. The
detail design for a major part of the works has been completed and many
contracts have been awarded. The overall progress of the project is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1980
Investments under the project are generally performing well,
although the commitment rate is slow and will decline even further with the
recent termination of large tractor financing. To help accelerate commit-
ments, the Central Bank, supported by the Bank, has made a number of
recommendations, including: the expansion of lending categories to include
additional agricultural investments; assignment of authority to the Central
Bank to evaluate and finance agricultural projects not specifically identi-
fied in the Rules and Regulations; the addition of private development banks
to the eligible financial intermediaries; expansion of training provisions
to include funds for domestic and foreign training of Central Bank staff.
Repayment performance continues to be unsatisfactory; however, causes are of
a long-term sectoral nature and will be addressed in that context. Vehicles
for Central Bank field staff have been procured, and contracts awarded for
the construction of the Agricultural 2Iachinery Testing and Evaluation Center
and for the Farm Mechanization Study. Completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                        Page 7 of 17
Loan No. 1414       National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems.  Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421       Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained, particularly
with infrastructure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in
agriculture. Population of settlements is growing, more land is being
cultivated, and crop standards have improved. Problems associated with
legalizing land holdings are still of concern, and some difficult policy
decisions will have to be made before they can be resolved. Feasibility
studies towards a forward program have been initiated, indirectly focussing
attention on the need for policy studies relating to the future use of, or
developments within, unalienated lands in general.
Loan No. 1506       Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Operations have started in all project components except research,
but progress has been lagging behind schedule; the DBP smallholder tree
farming component has met with a slow rate of farmer enrollment due to
problems with legal requirements, land availability and farmers' reluctant
attitude arising from lack of previous experience. However, DBP remains
committed to the project and is working on ways in which to stimulate
progress. In the Abra pine plantation component insufficiency of Government
funds has caused the program of vehicle acquisition and building
construction to fall a year behind schedule, but it is expected that the
delay will be made up to a large extent during 1979. Disbursements have not
yet begun, due to the early stage of the project and the initial delays.
Loan No. 1526       Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule.
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed for about 80% of the
project area and design of project works is under way. The construction work
started recently is primarily devoted to service roads and structures along
main and secondary canals.  Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



-34 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. However, progress on
the design of village roads is slow. Overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH  The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Preconstruction works have been completed and works on dam founda-
tion, grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion tunnels are
under way and expected to be completed this year. The civil works contract
for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor has completed the
mobilization of staff and equipment.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Proiect; $32.0 ?Yil lion Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A firm commitment to the project is evident. Management and
Executive Committees have been established, and previously withheld
budgetary allocations are now gradually being released, except for vehicle
purchase. Field implementation is expected to begin within the next few
months when it is hoped that budgetary releases for motorcycles and
communications equipment will be approved. Main problems at the moment rest
with the management of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension, where there is
some confusion as to responsibilities by division heads. The Minister of
Agriculture is aware of the problem, and is working on ways to strengthen
the Bureau's management.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The design for the Baligatan diversion dam and main canals has
been completed, and NIA expects to start construction work soon. Overall
progress is satisfactory.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project has been slow in its lending operations, reflecting
expected initial low demand for loans on the part of the farmers. The Land
Bank is continuing its efforts to strengthen its field services and to estab-
lish closer contacts with the farmers. It is expected that the lending
program will gain momentum as these efforts result in more effective presence
of the Land Bank among farmers. The Land Bank is also actively considering
alternative ways of speeding up implementation of the project.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effecet eness:  December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 1 r 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978.  At
Cagayan de Oro, 94% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension.  Progress has recently been delayed by fuel shortages and
late contractual payments to contractors by the Government.  The Closing Date
of the loan has recently been extended to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works
contract guarantee retention monies and the next ports project feasibility
study costs. The latest project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to
$12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 98% complete. Substantial problems
have been encountered at various times during implementation, which have
largely been overcome but which have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. Further major problems are not anticipated, and the project is
expected to be completed by March 1980, a delay of 3 years, with a new Closing
Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at about $178
million, an increase of about 39% over the original appraisal estimate, due
primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have been experienced
throughout the project.



- 36. -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The current rate of disbursement and commitments suggests that the
loan will be fully disbursed by the revised closing date of June 30, 1980.
It is possible, however, that the disbursement period may need to be extended
for six months for completion of the training programs and for ship construc-
tion guarantee payments. A report by a Bank consultant points out that there
is little likelihood that the ship safety inspection system now operated by
the Philippine Coast Guard can be improved without a major disaster providing
an impetus for change to a separate, more professional and better qualified
cadre of ship inspector. This report has been made available to the Govern-
ment.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded and work begun on all national roads
after initial delays in securing Presidential approval for some contracts.
However, much difficulty has been experienced in making acceptable progress
in many of these contracts, requiring that MPH terminate six out of
14 of them for unsatisfactory performance. In two cases, new contractors
have been appointed and work has begun again. Contracts for improvement of
minor roads have been awarded and work will begin following Presidential
approval of awards. After a delay of about 12 months, the road maintenance
and restoration program is now making satisfactory progress. All but one of
the 28 workshop contracts have been awarded, with work well advanced on
eight of them and the balance awaiting Presidential approval of awards.
Procurement contracts for almost all equipment, tools and machinery have
been approved, with delivery expected during 1979. Consultants for
supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in place. Technical
assistance advisors to MPH and training advisors are due to complete their
assignments in November 1979 and March 1980, respectively. The road and
ferry feasibility report was submitted in October 1978. Overall project
costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates, but project
execution is expected to be delayed by about 24 months due to the late start
of certain critical activities and to the serious delays occurring in some
of the road construction contracts.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Expected Date of Effectiveness: June 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Prequalification of contractors for the road construction works is
now under way. Detailed engineering and bidding documents for the road
improvements were prepared under a previous loan (950-PH) and bidding will



-37 -                          ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
take place in the near future after the list of prequalified contractors has
been agreed upon. Invitations for proposals have been issued to the
short-listed consulting firms for technical assistance to MPH and MLGCD. A
short-list of prospective consulting firms for the design and construction
supervision of workshops is in the process of being drawn up and consultants
for this work will be invited to submit proposals before the end oif 1979.
Preparatory work for the continuation of the Road Maintenance and Rtoad
Restoration Program begun under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) is
scheduled to begin during the first quarter of 1980.  Selection of Technical
Assistance consultants to MPWTC for the continuation of the "Transport
Planning Advisory Services," begun under a previous project, (Loan 1282-PH)
is in process.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224       Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has recently established an autonomous textbook agency
to manage book development, production, and distribution for public element-
ary and secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with only minimal (four month) delays, and 15 million
textbooks have been produced and distributed. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimate, and disbursements are about 76% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374       Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about nine months behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures are being taken by the Govern-
ment. Enrollment projections and staff development programs show that the
project is making steady progress towards its development impact targets.
Project costs are close to appraisal estimates.
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Commnunications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is function-
ing smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs



-38  -                          ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
and printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio
Assisted Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education
for Teachers (CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas
on schedule (Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET will most likely begin
another experimental utilization in Mindanao in early 1980. In order to
provide information on the desirability of nationwide project implementa-
tion, the pilot project includes a substantial evaluation component which is
proceeding smoothly.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
Community facilities such as the high school are in use and final designs for
the remainder of these facilities are nearing completion. Major contracts
for the Radial Road (R-10) have been awarded and implementation is to begin
promptly. The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many
initial difficulties overcome and valuable lessons learned which should hasten
implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan No. 1415      Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 pillion Loan
of May 13. 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Under Part A of the project, well drilling activities in five of
the six WDs are in progress. Designs of distribution networks, pumping
stations and reservoirs have been finalized and bids called. Public hearings
on the revised projects have been successfully held in three of the project
towns, one decided not to implement its part of the project, and one WI) is
considering a reduction in its project. One N1D did not meet the contribu-
tion to construction covenant for 1978, and corrective action is expected
soon. LWUA has been asked to formulate a plan to furnish assistance to Wns
in their institution-building efforts and to take steps to strengthen its
collection procedures. Part B of the project has been delayed due to a
scarcity of local contractors for drilling and testing wells in remote
locations. Disbursements have been slow (30% of appraisal estimate) mainly
due to change in procurement methods, weak project management and delays in
the work of local consultants. This situation is expected to improve now
that a new Project Manager has been appointed, and it is anticipated that
the project will be completed within the scheduled period.



ANNEX II
- 39 - _
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1615      Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Part A of the project has been delayed by about one year due mainly
to slow Government approval of major contracts on source works financed by
ADB, which has produced similar delays in the Bank-financed components
(Part B). MWSS' consultants have prepared a new construction program
rescheduling the different components in order to meet the original target of
project completion in June 1983. This new program is reasonable. Award of
contracts under the IBRD part of the project is expected to begin about
December 1979. Part C of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. A water
rate increase of 59% was implemented in October 1978 as agreed during
negotiations, and two additional increases of P 0.25 each have been approved
by the President, and will be implemented in 1980 and 1981.
Loan No. 1647-PH  Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan became effective on April 26, 1979. Impplementation has
begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage contracts in Manila and the three
regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan de Oro. Designs for community
facilities in Phase I of Dagat-dagatan are in the final stages.
Credit No. 920    Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project: S22.0
Loan No. 1710      Million Credit and $16.0 Million Loan of June 29. 1q79;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: December 14, 19'9;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan/credit was signed on June 29, 1979 and is expected to be
declared effective on December 14, 1979.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1,, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about US$59.3 million an increase of about US$11.0 million over the
original estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to December 31, 1979 to allow full disbursement of
committed funds. As of the end of September, the undisbursed funds amounted
to $1.2 million. Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                     Page 14 of 17
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power: $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consul-
tants' services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1979, and
the transmission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than
two years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at
US$114.1 million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate
(US$92.0 million). The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is
US$5.2 million (9%). The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion
of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement has been slow, and as a result disbursements have been
behind schedule, with only $1.2 million disbursed as of September 2), 1979,
compared with the appraisal estimate of $19.0 million. Although the Bank
waived the 8% rate of return requirement for 1978, NPC achieved a rate of
return of 7% and expected to achieve 8% in 1979 after taking over plant
previously owned and operated by Meralco. However, prospects of achieving
the 8% rate of return in 1979 are considered slim because a planned 10%
tariff increase in Luzon has not been implemented because of "brownouts" due
to operating problems with its generating plant and increases in fuel costs
which were passed on to consumers. Plans for establishing a training
center, which was to be financed by the Bank, have been deferred.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
tender document preparation and delays in procurement. However, following
reorganization of NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank
project materials were awarded in April 1979. Construction is expected to
commence in late 1979 or early 1980 after receipt of project materials, and
first disbursements are expected before June 1980. NEA's financial
performance and position in 1977 and 1978 was good, and steps are being
taken by NEA to strengthen its monitoring of the financial performance of
the cooperatives, especially their compliance with the Government's
financial performance guidelines.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farmin&;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has
been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively large
industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about
1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of
the loan is nearly fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects.  After some slowdown in
commitments and disbursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now
been fully committed. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: Au,ust 20,
1975; Closing Date: February 28, 1980
The original DBP ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan
have been fully disbursed. However, the Rural Industrial Croperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Disbursements on this component have been slow and,
therefore, $1.7 million out of the original allocation of $2.3 million WHas
been reallocated to DBP, who can utilize this amount quickly. The Small
Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry
has been implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of Jarnuary 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
In February, 1977, the Executive Directors approved a proposal to
allocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries, and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect was signed on March 16, 1977.
Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower than expected due to



- 42 -                            A1ANEX II
page 16 of 17
a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a whole, improved in
1Q78 and 1979. The loan has since been fully committed hy hRP for
subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514        Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 0, 19'S
Date of Effectiveness-  June 23, 1078-  Closing Date
March 31, 1Q82
As of September 30, 1979 commnitments under the loan amounted to
$q.4 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555        PhilipDines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May P, 107P- Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 197R, Closing Tnate: December 31, 19R2
The pace of commitment of the loan has been much Caster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully
committed by PISO.  As of September 30, 1Q70, disbursements amotnted to
$7.R million.  Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572        Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: W80 Million Loan
of June 6, 197P- Date of Fffectiveness: September 15,
197P; Closing Date: June 30, 1992
Commitments for subprojects under the large industry component
amounted to over $27 million as of September 30, 1079. In addition, as of
the same date the small and medium industry component had been disbursed to
the extent of $5.4 million. the overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1727        Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project,
$25 Million Loan of June 29, lq79; Date of Effectiveness
November 9, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1083
This loan was signed on June 2, 1970 andl was declared effective
on November 9, 1970.
Loan No. 1035       Population: $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974-
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 197Q
As of June 30, 1970. 17n of the 219 proiect facilities had been
completed, 27 were under construction and 13 had not been started.



- 43 -
A_NEX II
Page 17 of 17
Contractors had completed 88% of all construction work. During the period
January to October 1979, many Droject components experienced implementation
delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart funds.  Wbile this
problem was partially solved by internal transfer and reallocation of funds
it is likely that there will be a six-month delay in project completion.
Since a number of actiVities being funded under this first project ar-
preparatory to the second, the continued problems with fund allocation will
delay effective implementation of the second project.  In January 1979 the
prolect was amended to include financing of additional vehicles arnd equip-
ment for service deliverv; training: information, education and communi-
cation campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second population
project. The amended total project cost is $40 million. The total cost
estimate had decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly to price
increases not materializing as Forecast.  The management situationI in the
Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a Functional analysis of
the Ministry of Health is under way. The recommendations of this study, if
implemented, should considerably strengthen the health care delivery system.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29   1Q79: Date of Effectiveness: october 15,  7-
Closing Date: June 3n, 19R5
This credit was signed on June 29, 1Q7q, and was declared effec-
tive on October 15, 1979. Preparatory activities funded under the first
project are being delayed due to shortages of Govrernment funds.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FISHERY TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:               September 1977-June 1978
(b) Project prepared by: the Ministry of Education and Culture with
FAO assistance
(c) Discussions with the Government on
project preparation:                         September 1977
(d)  First Bank mission to consider project:  June/July 1978
(e) Follow-up missions for further
discussion of project:                      January and April 1979
(f)  Departure of appraisal mission:             August 1979
(g)  Completion of negotiations:                  November 9, 1979
(h)  Planned loan effectiveness:                 April 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government Is to:
(a) provide incentives for relocating staff of the UPVCF to Miagao
(para. 45);
(b) maintain a staff/student ratio satisfactory to the Bank at UPVCF
(para. 45) and at the regional institutes (para. 48).
(c) establish, by March 31, 1980, a committee to review research
proposals to be financed by the proposed project and select
research programs in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 46);



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) discontinue, by 1984, the Bachelor of Science Degree in Fishery
programs offered at the proposed Institutes of Fishery Technology,
except at the Institute at Zamboanga (para. 47);
(e) establish no new postsecondary fishery training institutes during
project implementation, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank
(para. 47);
(f) facilitate appointment and career advancement of the institutes'
graduates (para. 47);
(g) set up Regional Fishery Training Development Committees to coordin-
ate activities of the Institutes of Fishery Technology and the
Centers for Fishermen Training (para. 51); and
(h) develop a monitoring and evaluation system by June 30, 1980,
complete the collection of baseline data by March 31, 1981,
and furnish an annual report to the Bank for its review each
June from 1982 to 1985 (para. 53).






->t  l                                   -m-                                                     --*---/   a                              aSiMA4-Pw.Spl~
v3s   7v s3730s7_Xo  m             vslps71  78                                             ,V N  N 
| y/pe7tYS}7fi /7oo17 7V  7<X*7e W^xyswe7 /,gt fl77  2 p)   
-69                                Aqa;v                                                                                              t         tf              7 
Z~~~~~~~~~3                         A stt.-9  SC,<  
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SAg2 VNIH  Hlnos,
,   C ou s    ,    6S  C   |                          r35    e705        X                             g      /  a~~~~~~~~~~jeapnj ellS 
9                                 |                          5r            /         eweNIHDWlnos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
\s      ;  ie          lXq}t  <S    t~~~~~~~~~iF rfSl                                                         lo  o-  qg At,
X   \s.,,$       +       t    b  6iC<                E       ,          //        z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~  e1ePnJG uBeCln tq  oqLo
>s --riof ~~~~~ j \5 >SSttAt8315 ~~~z,                                               t                                 g\obnuepln>eVo 9f
\   ieA    v£l >,  \    '~~~~~~~~~ -Tv  <    | \  %.  fo   I ~~~~~~~~Jns top oueS05 69sqNb
><   u  p\    \   - i(            ?       <<       l  )  X                   waN  Xep ~~~~6,  oeueP13       sxenule
Y  3  S  g  N I J d  1 7 i H J \ 2 S > \ >\g<<t U4 X l O\NVaNN lVdU&RD 1>. kJ8P!00C  uI-M!W 0L
\S   <  _  >   \     [g   b__          4           fnS tep oesutc 99                UBAPE~~~~~~Glmo0
9   Agu          ' /  b    G  f ld B\t        I           l%U@~~~~~~~~~~~~01W0 !JC  egvt bEUO;D 
t 4   !  ,^    \ V t         av°~~~OIJN IBP DeBIJ18 9-           Aoet 
t   -  '    \  l;     <     4        @>aN !aP Lafidpr~EON       NV11 tOdOILLaJI   i
L                                  9  .                >p;f nirnS 7~        uedwie 2 
i'  Z )  __<   9l  ) g f I      I      s~~~~~nS la7p eBueoqwrezz.             Dezje1 B
t k t   _ <_91        |        |   a"°~~~~~wN rap e5uoq-lz [.;An e!3  AgnN 9 L
S1,191AW0,101                             aAa en,LLAg                                                                  eAeOZIA oAonNL:l,
oQc   03Z   O6Z   DSI   001    6i ~o                             |      )    62                                          euues UARase bt                   oeGnt! g t
l    tf   >5s   T t / z                        JeLue~~~~~~~AR-S Lb,      eTqSl I I
$31t%NnOL  lINGlC39          }      87aUset0U:                           S   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SVAVSIA N)XAISVA N A  ortOdVetTUtld 
531dVt!Nllt6 lYlON!tN00d-                                            <;;kq-d bb4                                              3ial'VA NVkYV9D *
(S8;1=[W  N!lSWCt1v3                                                                                       101"OPO    lL SWospGN £tuvutPbu9d 
StQNIItlO' e!MiHSI.  ao NOtlSAwan!s IVN0!93tH ----o r                                                                                                -v                 pn6tiat
DNINlkVlM j                                                                              SVAV51A 1VUKa3l!A ihuttte5
S.3i83S dbO  Stt31~N3:)11NOMU                                                                                                                         U0u lPU,!7QsJs   tu elam
A9010NH3131                                                                                                 01!11l Ob
70z          A83HS13 io 531niu SNI lVN0ID3S                                                  9                                                n>Uy6                   nS srwoll Q 3Z
S3831-1H'l t 30 303l103                                                                                               Z!rleo 8£                  eqy 
SVAkVS!A NI S3NiddlllHd dO0 AL!SU3AINttn                                                                                               utlIy zg             91JON sOOlx7!
1:)3 f8d ONNI,M  M V                    3 HSIJ                                                                           SNOIVSXA IHdOIO A8
SgNIMIdTiHd                                                                                                        S3T)NtAOXvI :10 NOIY11419IgSVYID
qLllt .838W3L;735                                           r)1z I{tni
918£I G1:10



