OFFICIAL    LOAN NUMBER 1786 PH
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Fishery Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated               ,    r          199


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1786 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                Febrtorq  ( , 19?4 between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "UPCF" means the University of the Philippines, College
of Fisheries;
(b) "UPVCF" means the University of the Philippines in the
Visayas, College of Fisheries;
(c) "Institute" means Regional Institute of Fishery Techno-
logy of the Ministry of Education and Culture as specified in Part
B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(d) "Center" means Regional Center for Fishermen Training of
the Ministry of Natural Resources/Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources; and
(e) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit established
pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement (Second Education Project) between the Borrower and the
Association dated January 5, 1973.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-eight million dollars ($38,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall: (i) award fellowships under the Project to
appropriately qualified candidates in accordance with selection
criteria and award procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
employ or cause to be employed specialists whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its coat and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine


﻿-4-
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire by May 31, 1980,
or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such
lien shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably,
and at no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the crea-
tion of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the crea-
tion of any such lien.


﻿-5-
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing
not more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means the assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalert lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause each entity and
institution included in the Project to carry out its operations,
maintain its facilities and manage its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial, technical and educational prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose,
including the provision of adequate budgetary allocations:
(i) to the Institutes and Centers for the full uti-
lization, maintenance and repair of fishing
training vessels; and
(ii) to the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources of
its Ministry of Natural Resources for the full
operation of the Centers.
(b) The Borrower shall, in respect of vessels for fishery
training, take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make


﻿-6-
other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.
Section 4.04. For the purpose of facilitating the transfer
of UPCF staff to UPVCF, the Borrower shall implement a program of
adequate incentives, which shall include housing and transporta-
tion allowances, for said staff.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall make necessary arrangements:
(a) for the Institutes, except for the Institute at Zamboanga,
only to offer, starting with the academic year 1983/1984, programs
leading to a Diploma in Fishery Technology; and (b) to facilitate
the appointment and career advancement of such Diploma holders in
the Ministry of Natural Resources.
Section 4.06. During the implementation of the Project,
the Borrower shall establish new post-secondary fishery training
institutions only after the establishment of any such institution
is recommended on the basis of fishery manpower needs by the
Technical Panel for Agricultural Education of the Borrower.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1980, to
coordinate activities among Institutes and Centers in each Region,
establish a Regional Fishery Development Committee satisfactory to
the Bank, in each of the Regions where Institutes and Centers
would be located.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall: (a) in carrying out Part
C.1 of the Project, (i) develop by June 30, 1980 a monitoring and
evaluation system, (ii) complete collection of baseline data and
begin implementation of said monitoring and evaluation system by
March 31, 1981 and (iii) by June 30 of each year from 1982 through
1985 furnish the Bank for its review an annual report on the
implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system; and
(b)   in carrying out Part D of the Project, consult with
the Bank on the preparation of future projects ir the education
sector.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause to be maintained at
all times at UPVCF and the Institutes, a teaching staff to
students ratio satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall, in carrying out Part A
of the Project: (i) by March 31, 1980, establish at UPVCF a


﻿-7-
Research Review Committee with terms of reference and composition
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) select research programs in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                                 O, is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
hinister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                              7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /1 dj uro Z. R omLtAudez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By            K&AJg4/(
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed In       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 15,500,000         40%
(2) Furniture                    1,300,000         40%
(3) Equipment, materials,        7,400,000
books, vehicles and
vessels
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally manu-                             100% of local
factured (ex-                            expenditures
cluding vessels)                         (ex-factory)
(c) locally procured                          65%
(4) Technical Assistance         7,200,000
(a) Specialists'                              100%
services and
overseas
fellowships
(b) Local fellow-                             65%
ships
(5) Unallocated                  6,600,000
TOTAL            38,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the all-cation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 11 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A:   Professional Fishery Manpower Training
Establishment of UPVCF at Miagao as a center for fishery
research and training with an enrollment capacity of about 850
students, through:
(i) provision of academic and communal facilities, equip-
ment, furniture, books and accommodations;
(ii) implementation of fishery research programs; and
(iii) provision of technical assistance.
B:   Technical Fishery Manpower Training
1.   Establishment of Institutes at Aparri, Puerto Princesa,
Tabaco, Carmen, Catbalogan, Zamboanga, and Panabo, to
train technicians for the fishery industry and extension
service each with an enrollment capacity of about 450
students (inc.luding off-campus training programs),
through:
(i) provision of academic and communal facilities,
equipment, furniture, books and accommodations;
(ii) provision of training vessels; and
(iii) provision of technical assistance.
2.   Establishment of Centers located adjacent to Institutes
for in-service training of fishermen and Bureau of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources extension workers, each
with a capacity for about 100 trainees, through:
(i) provision of academic and communal facilities,
equipment, furniture, books and accommodations;
(ii) provision of training vessels; and
(iii) provision of technical assistance.


﻿- 13 -
C:   Fishery Project Management
1.   Establishment of a program to monitor and evaluate
the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project.
2.   Strengthening of the management capacity of the Fishery
Education and Civil Works Divisions of the Project
Unit.
D:   Future Projects Preparation
Preparation of future projects in the education sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1985                      1,265,000
through   July 1, 1999
On January 1, 2000                               1,315,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              6.35%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.15%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or tie sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the deli-
very of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 17 -
4.   For bidding purposes, equipment, materials, furniture, books,
vehicles, vessels and civil works shall be grouped to the extent
practicable in such a manner as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank so as to permit bulk procurement.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Philippines if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Philippines equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 18 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or less, may be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate
expenditure for items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000.
2.   Contracts for furniture, equipment, materials and vessels
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
provided that the aggregate expenditure for items so procured
shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
3.   Contracts costing less than $25,000 each for miscellaneous
items may be awarded after inviting at least three price quota-
tions, provided that such purchases shall not exceed the equiva-
lent of $500,000.
4.   Books may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's book
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and all contracts for
equipment, materials, furniture, books and vessels estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:


﻿- 19 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the precedin3
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 20 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
'more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /JAiL    day of        198   .
FOR SECRETARY


