FiLE  '' B MvDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                       3
Report No. P-2 173-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
November 21, 1977



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Tanzanian Shilling = US$0.12
US$1.00             =  TSh8.30
(As the Tanzanian Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to
the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to TSh8.30 which is close to the
recent average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS    -  Agricultural Development Services
BIS    -  Basic Industrial Strategy
CCM    -  Chama Cha Mapinduzi
EADB   -  East African Development Bank
EAC    -  East African Community
NBC    - National Bank of Commerce
NDC    - National Development Corporation
NIC    - National Insurance Corporation
SIDO   -  Small Industries Development Organization
TANU   -  Tanganyika African National Union
TDFL   -  Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
TIB    -  Tanzania Investment Bank
TRDB   - Tanzania Rural Development Bank
TIB's Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA - TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:               Tanzania  Investment Bank (TIB)
GUARANTOR:              United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:                 US$15.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                  Repayable substantially in conformity with the
aggregate amortization schedule for sub-loans
and investments for which withdrawals from the
loan account are approved or authorized. Interest
rate would be 7.9 percent per annum.
RELENDING TERMS:        TIB would relend the proceeds of the loan at a
minimum interest rate of 11 percent per annum.
The maximum maturity of sub-loans will be 15
years including adequate grace periods. The
exchange risk would be assumed fully by sub-
borrowers.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The purpose of the proposed project is to meet
part of TIB's foreign exchange requirements to
cover its commitments through December 31, 1980.
More specifically, the project will enable TIE
to finance the planned increase in and diver-
sification of its operations. In addition to
its traditional financing of manufacturing enter-
prises, TIB expects to increase its work in agro-
industries, transport and tourism.
FINAL DATE FOR
PROJECT SUBMISSIONS:   December 31, 1980
FREE LIMIT:             $800,0000 equivalent for individual sub-loans;
$7.0 million equivalent aggregate limit.
DEBT COVENANTS:         Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECTED TIB PERFORMANCE
Year Ending June 30            1978      1979     1980     1981      1982
----(TSh Million)-----------…
Projected Approvals:
Loans                                   242.0    278.0    320.0     368.0    423.0
Equity                                    2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0
Total                               244.0     280.0    322.0    370.0     425.0
Projected Income Statements:
Total Revenue                           44.8      60.4     86.0     113.1    138.8
Financial and Admin. Expenses            16.0     20.4     28.3      40.1     56.8
Provisions                                2.7      4.2      6.8       6.6      6.9
Income Tax                               13.0     18.0     26.0      32.9     36.9
Net Income                               13.1     17.8     24.9      33.5     38.2
As % of net worth                      3.8      4.0      4.2       4.8      5.1
Projected Balance Sheets:
Current Assets                          185.2    218.4    260.9     331.3    412.8
Net TIB Loans                           329.2    464.4    676.3     852.6   10208
Equity Investments                       34.5     42.4     44.4      46.4     48.4
Fixed Assets (net)                        2.1      2.1      2.1       2.1      2.1
TOTAL ASSETS                        551.0     727.3    983.7    1232.4   1484.1
Current Liabilities                     32.9      40.4     56.7      72.4    103.9
Long-term Debt                          171.9    237.0    334.2     462.7    629.5
Net Worth                               346.2    449.9    592.8     697.3    750.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND NET WORTH                      551.0     727.3    983.7    1232.4   1484.1
Debt/Equity Ratio                         0.6      0.6      0.7       0.8      1.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                  FY79     FY80     FY81     FY82      FY83
…-------  ----(U   $ Millio)…-------------
Annual             1.3      3.9      5.6      3.5       0.7
Cumulative         1.3      5.2     10.8      14.3     15.0
APPRAISAL REPORT:        Report No. 1730_TA, dated November 21, 1977



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) with the guarantee of the United
Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$15 million to help finance
the foreign exchange component of investments of this development finance
company in Tanzania. The interest on the loan would be 7.9 percent per
annum. Amortization will conform substantially to the aggregate of the
amortization schedules applicable to the specific investment projects
financed out of the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        While the last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in 1972, an updating report on the
economy was included as Annex V to the President's Report on a Proposed
Program Credit (No. P-1781a-TA dated February 22, 1977) and was distributed
to the Consultative Group Meeting (held in Paris in May 1977). This report
summarized the findings of the Basic Economic Mission which visited Tanzania
in July - August 1976. The draft of the Basic Economic Report was sent to
the Government in July and was reviewed in November 1977.
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is virtually unrivaled
in Africa. The TANU11 party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early
1950s. For the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration of early 1967,
Tanzania has pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the
eradication of absolute poverty and economic and social transformation. The
1/ TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar political
party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new party is now
called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



fundamental strategy underlying Tanzania's development has emphasized rural
development, social ownership of the principal means of production, and full
participation of all regions and population groups in the development pro-
cess. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution. In restructuring the political,
economic and social life of the country the leadership has introduced a series
of far-reaching institutional reforms. The most important of these measures
are well known: most large-scale units in manufacturing, finance and whole-
sale trade have been nationalized; the Government has sharply increased its
share of revenue in GDP through progressive taxation; a significant portion
of public expenditure control has been delegated to the regions and districts;
and incomes policy has prevented a further widening of the urban-rural gap
and has narrowed wage differentials within the formal urban sector.
4.        With per capita income of   $180  Tanzania   is  classified
as one of the least developed countries as defined by the United Nations
(country data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's
GDP at factor cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With
population growing at 2.7 percent per annum,per capita output was rising
at only 1.8 percent per year on average. Domestic savings reached 18 percent
of GDP while gross investment was sustained at between 20 to 25 percent of
GDP, extremely high rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita
income. The growth rate of GDP was not commensurate with the magnitude of
the investment effort, however, in part because of the high proportion of
investment which was directed into slow-gestation infrastructure and social
services projects but also because of sluggish growth in the agricultural
sector and stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enterprises.
During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments situation was
generally satisfactory, despite a disappointing performance in the export
sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated by increasing
capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft terms. The overall
balance of payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73, resulting
in a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly over $150
million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months' imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic
crisis. Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused a massive decline
in production and marketing of the major foodgrains. In response the Govern-
ment was compelled to import large quantities of grain, particularly maize,
on commercial terms in order to alleviate the hardships inflicted by drought.
Tanzania's main export crops were also affected by the drought, and the re-
sultant declines in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking advantage
of the commodity price boom during 1974. On the import side, total cost of
merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent between 1973 and 1974, despite
a slight decline in volume. As a result of these factors the trade deficit



- 3 -
widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340 million in 1974 while the overall
balance of payments moved from a surplus to a deficit of $140 million. This
balance of payments gap was financed largely through drawings from the IMF
(gold tranche, first credit tranche and 1974 Oil Facility) and by a rapid
depletion of reserves which fell to $60 million (net) at the end of 1974,
equivalent to only one month's import requirements. Industrial production
also stagnated in 1974 due to shortages of imported raw materials resulting
from the growing foreign exchange constraint and interruptions in power and
water supplies. While production declined,domestic demand increased rapidly
because of expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The imbalance
between domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in
import prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
6.        Although the severity and suddeness of the crisis were largely
the result of forces outside Tanzania's control, many of the problems were
foreshadowed by longer-term economic trends which, at least partially, were
subject to Tanzanian control. One important adverse trend was in the com-
position of growth; the rate of growth of material production had been
falling for several years and the overall GDP growth rate had been maintained
only by an acceleration in the growth of services, particularly of public
administration. While much of the slump in agricultural production in 1974
was due to poor weather, the average growth rate of agricultural output had
failed to exceed the rate of growth of population for the six years prior
to the harvest failure. In addition, the mass villagization program inevi-
tably caused some disruption in agricultural production, in part because
of inadequate planning and preparation. In the modern sectors many enter-
prises experienced declining labor productivity which has been attributed
to lack of incentives, poor discipline and ineffective management. Further-
more, while the ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960s,
reaching a high of 18 percent in 1970, it had declined to 15 percent by
1973. Public savings were also falling as a share of GDP, mainly due to
the slow growth of parastatal enterprises' surpluses and the rapid increase
in Government recurrent expenditures.
The Government's Response to the Economic Crisis
7.        Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized,
the Government formulated a comprehensive package of policy actions to
bring the balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of
the development effort. The principal elements of the package included a
reallocation of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures
to raise agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on public and
private consumption. This package was reviewed with the Bank at the time
of appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan in late 1974, and approval
of that Loan was based on the Bank's agreement with, and support for, the
proposed package. The Government has, over the past two years, successfully
carried out most of this policy package.



- 4 -
8.        From mid-1974 the Government tightened import controls, parti-
cularly for consumer goods and industrial raw materials. Imports were
curtailed drastically and liquor and tobacco imports were banned. Import
licensing was further tightened in 1975, leading to sharp volume declines
in imports of consumer goods, industrial raw materials and spare parts.
In addition, the Government took further politically difficult steps to
slow down the rate of growth of private consumption demand. Retail prices
of basic foodstuffs were raised sharply in late 1974. Indirect taxes on
textiles, beer and cigarettes have been progressively increased since 1975
to absorb excess consumer demand for these items. User charges for water
and electricity were also raised. An extremely restrictive wage and salary
policy has been followed since May 1974.
9.        On the production side, the Government has made significant progress
during the last three years in reallocating public investments in favor of the
directly productive sectors of agriculture and industry. Special emphasis
has been placed on agricultural production. The share of Government develop-
ment expenditure allocated to the agricultural sector has increased from
16 percent in 1973/74 to 23 percent in 1976/77. During late 1974 the Govern-
ment urged farmers to grow more food under the campaign "farming as a matter
of life and death." The Government also announced substantial increases in
agricultural producer prices in May and November 1974 and established an
agricultural price review unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. Producer
prices were again increased in 1975 and 1976.
Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
10.       The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather conditions and the effects of the policy
measures which were introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural pro-
duction increased by 6.6 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent
in 1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent
in 1974. This was despite the fact that during 1975 production of cotton
and some other cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to
villagization. In 1976 some of the problems of villagization were being
rectified through "operation correction" and since rains were once again
favorable, agricultural production was generally good. Preliminary estimates
are that agricultural production increased by about 4.7 percent in real
terms in 1976, industrial production expanded 6.2 percent and GDP grew 5.2
percent.
11.       The goods and services account of the balance of payments con-
tinued to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties,
declines in some agricultural export prices and the continuing need to
import food for part of the year. The trade deficit increased from $340
million in 1974 to $400 million in 1975, and even after allowing for a high
level of project-related capital inflows and a huge increase in grant
assistance and concessional food aid, there was a residual deficit of



-5-
almost $75 million. Whereas the 1974 residual deficit vas filled almost
entirely through a combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion
(para 5), the 1975 deficit was met through foreign assistance from a variety
of sources, including a $30 million Program Loan from the World Bank (para 7).
In 1976 the balance of payments picture improved. The trade deficit dec-
lined due to strong export performance, especially for coffee and cotton, and
to a slight fall in the value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened need
for foodgrain imports and continuing tight restrictions on all other cate-
gories of imports. The overall balance of payments surplus was about $35
million for the year and net foreign exchange reserves increased to $115
million., This is equivalent to two month's import requirements at the 1976
level, a modest improvement over end-1975 level but less than optimal.
Because of the very concessional terms on which aid has been given to Tanzania
and the Government's refusal to use higher cost commercial loans and suppliers'
credits, the overall debt service ratio has remained low -- including a
notional 40 percent share of the debt of the East African Community Corpo-
rations, it was less than 8 percent in 1976.
East African Community (EAC)
12.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up
institutions, policies and procedures for operating the common market and
the large infrastructure services, and encouraging progress was achieved.
It has been followed, however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion
concerning the distribution of net benefits derived from the Community.
The infrastructure services were hampered by restrictive tariff policies;
services declined, and Pattner States subventions were required for the
Railways from time to time to keep the services running. The poor perform-
ance of the common services in transport and communications also impaired
trade and general movement of goods within the countries, affecting the
general economic development program. These difficulties were aggravated
by the severe budgetary and balance of payments constraints faced by all
three Partner States in the past few years. As a consequence, there has
been a continuous diminution in the authority of the Community institutions.
13.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental
political and economic differences had so affected the working of the
Community that a review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission
was appointed for this purpose in November 1975 but it adjourned in
November 1976 without being able to make agreed recommendations regarding
the future structure of the EAC.  Meanwhile, the continuing deterioration
in Community relationships led to a further dismantling in the headquarter
staffs of the corporations responsible for Community services. In the past
year the regional corporations for Railways, Posts and Telecommunications
and Harbours have assumed on an ad hoc basis effective control over these
services and in early 1977 a series of problems led to the collapse of the
East African Airlines. In view of these events it became quite clear that
an effort would have to be made to establish a rational basis upon which



- 6 -
the future of the former EAC Corporations could be resolved. This issue was
reviewed during the Bank's Annual Meetings where all three Partner States
agreed on the appointment of an independent mediator and consultants to
assess the assets and liabilities of the Corporations and make recommendations
as to how these should be allocated between the Partner States. The Bank
agreed to assist by identifying potential mediators and help prepare terms
of references for this work. It had also been agreed, subject to the Executive
Directors' approval, to amend existing loan documents to reflect the present
situation. Existing arrangements would remain in force until these changes
were agreed and approved.
14.      The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet debt service
obligations in a timely manner, the Bank has had to suspend disbursements in
the past. However, since the May 1976 debt service agreement between the
Partner States was finalized, all service payments to the Bank with respect
to EAC loans have been promptly met. Except for a second line of credit to
the EADB in March 1976, the EAC Corporations have received no new loans from
the Bank since 1973.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
15.      Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.   Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 30 IDA credits, 12 Bank loans and two
Third Window loans amounting to $491.0 million have so far been approved
for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
The only IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were
made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company en-
countered financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold
their interest in the Company to the Government. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African
Community organizations as of October 31, 1977, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
16.      In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans
and credits made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure.
The overwhelming majority of the operations approved since then have
been for directly productive projects. Furthermore, a number of the Bank
Group supported infrastructure projects have been closely linked with
specific productive activities. For example, the Urban Water Supply Pro-
ject (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in January 1977, will support the recently
approved Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1386-TA and 1385T-TA).
The directly productive projects are supporting both the agricultural and



industrial sectors, including the Kigoma Integrated Rural Development Pro-
ject (Credit No. 508-TA), the National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA),
the Fisheries Development Project (Credit No. 658-TA), two previous Tanzanian
Investment Bank Projects (Credit 460-TA and Loan No. 1172-TA), and the Mwanza
Textile Project (Loan No. 1128-TA). The first Bank Group assisted project
in the forestry sector, the Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA),
was approved last year and will provide the raw materials for Tanzania's
first paper and pulp plant, also under preparation for consideration by
the Bank Group for financing. A Program Credit, which would provide
essential imports, a Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement
Project (Credit No. 743-TA) and a Second National Sites and Services
Project (Credit No. 732-TA) were also recently approved by the Board.
Projects which have recently been appraised include a Rural Development Pro-
ject in Mwanza and Shinyanga, a Second Cashewnut Processing Project and a
Second Textile Project. A Fifth Highway Project, a Rural Development Project
in Mara, an Agricultural Services Project, a line of credit to the Tanzanian
Rural Development Bank and a Tourism Project are also under preparation.
17.       Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, page 1, is in large part a reflection
of the recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact
that overall project implementation has been less than what was projected.
It is clear in retrospect that both the Bank and the Tanzanians have been
optimistic regarding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the dif-
ficulties in implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of
suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect difficulties in
identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of small farmers
while others reflect the strains inevitably associated with attempting a
"frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent
and drastic administrative changes, which -- though perhaps essential to trans-
late the Tanzanian vision of the appropriate organization of society into
practice and potentially the source of long-term benefits -- have certainly
disrupted orderly execution of projects and made parts of earlier project
concepts obsolete. In general, these difficulties have been most severe in
agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our lending
program -- as well as those of other donors -- increasingly concentrates on
this sector, these problems have become correspondingly more apparent and
severe. By contrast, the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better.
The Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile, Urban Development, and Cashew-
nut Processing Projects, for example, are proceeding well. Furthermore,
the causes and solution of the problems in non-agricultural sectors have
been easier to identify e.g., implementation of education projects has
improved markedly now that required technical assistance has been recruited.
18.       As the Bank's lending program has expanded, increasing attention
has been given to measures designed to improve project implementation. A
course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 on the Bank's procurement
policies and procedures with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit, supported by a seconded Bank adviser and an



ADS (Agricultural Development Services) staff member was set up in the
Ministry of Agriculture and eight other ADS staff are assigned to Bank
projects. The need to establish a close and continuous working level
dialogue between the responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank staff on
following up implementation problems was one of the prime reasons for
the expansion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in October
1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank review of project imple-
mentation was established. Discussions, chaired by the Ministry of Finance
and attended by Bank staff and officials from implementing agencies, were
held in Dar es Salaam on the entire Bank Group program. Steps to strengthen
this review procedure were taken in August 1977 when these meetings were
shifted to a monthly basis. The Government also agreed that every third
such review will be conducted on an "in-depth" basis to discuss in detail
individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project im-
plementation across a number of sectors. As a result of this initiative
a number of positive steps have been taken. Most of the actions agreed to
both during the reviews and intervening supervision missions were completed.
The reviews have also proven effective in improving coordination and
communication; they provided a unique opportunity for project agencies
to discuss their problems with all the ministries involved and with high
level officials. During the first in-depth review in October a series of
general implementation issues were discussed with senior Tanzanian officials
and follow-up actions or investigations agreed upon.
19.       The Government has also become increasingly conscious of this
implementation issue. President Nyerere has been personally involved
on a number of occasions, taking senior civil servants and parastatal
officials to task for inadequate performance on specific Bank projects.
In addition to fully supporting the project implementation review system,
the Treasury has now decided to set-up a special internal unit to over-
see project performance and assist the implementing agencies with bottle-
necks and other problems. Furthermore, there is a more consistent response
to Bank suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss problems raised
by Bank staff. For example, an earlier reluctance by the Government to
recruit technical assistance has been replaced by the endorsement of such
help when it can be clearly demonstrated that it is required. As a conse-
quence project disbursement performance has improved somewhat over the
last two years across a number of sectors. However, it is obvious that
even with the continued emphasis on project implementation, progress can
only be expected to be gradual and new problems will continue to emerge
particularly in the newer sectors of Bank involvement. The wide scope of
the Bank's lending program and its increasing focus on the more difficult
and complex sectors and issues can be expected to cause new difficulties
which will need to be addressed as they arise.



- 9 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
20.       At independence Tanzania had an extremely limited industrial
sector dominated by private firms. Three major features have characterized
the sector since that time:   rapid   expansion, an impressive diversification
in products produced, and a major shift in ownership from private to
public hands. The contribution of manufacturing to GDP more than doubled
by 1976 as the number of jobs in the industrial sector tripled. Furthermore,
the limited range of products produced in 1961 has been significantly ex-
panded as new plants producing a wide range of consumer goods and some inter-
mediate and capital goods were completed. Finally, following the Arusha
Declaration in 1967, the Government systematically transferred the control
and ownership of the large private and foreign-owned industrial enterprises
to publicly-owned parastatals. By 1974, the public sector accounted for
about 50 percent of manufacturing value-added and employment. Presently,
four ministries control 17 holding companies which have a total of 97 sub-
sidiaries in various productive sectors. It must, however, be noted that the
private sector still remains an important participant in industry (430 of 500
factories with over 10 employees are in private hands).
Performance and Problems
21.       Aggregate manufacturing production grew rapidly between the mid-
sixties and the onset of the economic crisis in 1974. The average annual
real growth of the manufacturing sector was 7.8 percent between 1964-75
compared to an average growth rate of 4.8 percent for total GDP. However,
while this record of increasing output would seem to indicate satisfactory
industrial performance, a detailed analysis of Tanzania's record in the
manufacturing sector indicates that productivity has been low and output
has been far less than warranted by the level of investment.
22.       The problems underlying the suboptimal   performance in the sector
are many. At the macro level, the Government has not yet developed the
administrative capability to monitor and coordinate effectively the opera-
tions of the control systems which were instituted along with the increased
public ownership of manufacturing enterprises. Important components of this
control system include centralized decision-making on investments, detailed
allocations of foreign exchange through import licensing, an extensive
regime of price controls and rules of procedure operated by the National
Pricing Commission, and wage-setting by the Permanent Labor Tribunal and the
Government. While the Government feels these controls are needed to achieve
its development goals, their effect has largely been to insulate public enter-
prises from the discipline of market forces.   At the micro level two additional
sets of problems operate. First, performance indicators consistent with the
macro control systems and clear guidelines for evaluating performance are
still lacking. Managers and workers, therefore, have few motivating incentives
in Tanzania. Second, there is a scarcity of trained mana-
gerial personnel and skilled labor, and most enterprises have to live with
periodic shortages of other key inputs.



-10-
23.       These issues have been raised in various Bank reports on the
Tanzanian industrial sector. The Government is well aware of them and
considerable discussions have taken place among Tanzanian economic and
enterprise managers on possible solutions. The Bank Group has participated
in these discussions within the context of both general economic work
and specific projects in the industrial sector. These issues were
a particular focus of the recent review of the Basic Economic Report in
November. While decisions on any major macro policy changes dealing with
the incentive system for workers and managers, parastatal organizations
and the price and import control systems will take time because of their
importance and breadth, at the firm level a number of improvements have been
made. These include staff retrenchment in overmanned parastatals, an
eight percent limit on allowable increases in overhead costs of manufacturing
firms which approach the National Price Commission for price increases and
the hiring of a foreign consultant group to advise on operational/managerial
improvements for the subsidiaries and associate firms of the major indus-
trial holding company, the National Development Corporation (NDC). Speci-
fically, as a result of the NDC sponsored efficiency studies,its operating
companies have been able to improve their operations and correct problems
in management, maintenance, inventory control, excess receivables, unbalanced
process lines, and worker skills. This approach could be repeated with
success in additional parastatals; in fact, the more active among them are
already contemplating approaching TIB for assistance under the IDA Technical
Assistance Credit (para 29 below). Furthermore, TIB, on its own initiative,
has asked the Bank for assistance in locating one or more experts to study
the operations of the major industrial enterprises and lay down production
norms in the light of the social and technical conditions prevalent in the
country.
Basic Industrial Strategy and the Third Five-Year Plan
24.       Future development of the sector will be based on the Basic Indus-
trial Strategy (BIS) adopted in 1974 by the Government, The two main goals
of this strategy are structural transformation and self-reliance and its
main emphasis is on the use of domestic resources for domestic needs. This
involves giving top priority in investment allocations to industries supplying
(i) basic needs of food, shelter, health, education and transport, and (ii)
producer goods which contribute to production of a wide range of industrial
products. However, as it has emerged BIS will also permit expansion of
export-oriented production, especially that based on domestic raw materials
(for example cashew processing, sisal spinning, textile manufacture, and
meat and leather processing). A potential problem with the BIS is that
attempts to restructure the economy too quickly during thisperiod of resource
stringency may ultimately frustrate both growth and structural change. A
too rapid expansion of particular sectors may lead to excessive reliance
on external finance, know-how and markets, and the massive investment
coordination required by the strategy may overburden the country's already
weak planning capacity. Moreover, effective implementation of the strategy



- 11 -
will require specific changes in the macro policy framework towards a pro-
tection and tariff structure which does not discriminate against backward
linkage import substitution, discourage domestic production of capital goods,
or confer high and widely varying effective rates of protection to the pro-
duction of consumer goods.
25.       Preliminary indications are that the Third Five-Year Plan under
preparation (FY77-81) envisages an investment program of about TSh 23 billion,
of which about 21 percent will go to manufacturing. Projects earmarked for
development/implementation under the Plan are mainly based on Tanzania's
domestic resources. Among the sizeable Tanzanian projects currently under
implementation in the industrial sector with Bank Group support are the
industrial estate at Morogoro, the cashewnut processing factories and the
textile mill expansion at Mwanza. In addition, NDC is presently implementing
five other major projects: a tannery, a bicycle plant, a farm implements
factory, a detergents factory, and a pharmaceutical plant. A pulp and paper
mill project and another textile plant are in advanced stages of preparation
for Bank Group financing (para 16 above).
Small-Scale Industry
26.       The overall responsibilities for small-scale industry development
has been given to the Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO).
SIDO's activities include providing technical and managerial consultancy
services, establishing industrial estates, conducting training programs,
providing marketing services and supplying machinery on a hire-purchase
basis. SIDO's performance thus far has been mixed: in some areas impressive
work has been completed while in others little is being done. Specifically,
while its project preparation skills are satisfactory, managerial and marketing
problems are common. A number of other major issues face the Government in
this sector; the coordination of SIDO's work with other participants in
small-scale industry is weak, and the role of the private sector has not been
clarified.l/ The Bank Group has become involved in a pilot effort in the
sector under the Second National Sites and Services Project (Credit No. 732-TA)
and anticipates working closely with the Government in attempting to address
these problems.
The Financial Sector
27.       In terms of appropriate institutions, Tanzania's financial system
is relatively well developed. In addition to TIB (discussed below) and the
central bank of Tanzania (which is responsible for the overall monetary
policy), there are eight other financial institutions: a state-owned com--
mercial bank, a state-owned insurance corporation, a national provident fund,
three development banks (two dealing with the modern sectors of manufacturing,
transport, etc., and one with rural development) and two other state-owned
specialized institutions (a savings bank and a housing bank). Of these,
the commercial, savings, and housing banks are authorized to mobilize savings
directly from the public through deposit accounts. The two development banks
1/ Although in a recent statement President Nyerere has indicated that private
involvement in small-scale industry will be supported by the Government.



- 12 -
dealing with the modern sectors of manufacturing, agro-business, tourism,
transport, are the East African Development Bank (EADB) and the Tanganyika
Development Finance Co., Ltd (TDFL). EADB, an East African Community Corpo-
ration,whose majority shares are held by the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda, is allowed by its charter to make 38.75 percent of its invest-
ments in Tanzania. Therefore, its work in Tanzania is limited to some
extent. TDFL is owned in equal amounts by TIB and donor agencies of the United
Kingdom, West Germany, and the Netherlands. TDFL has been particularly
active in the past in financing private enterprises and in making equity
investments, but is now also financing parastatal enterprises. The Govern-
ment perceives TDFL's role as complementary to that of TIB. TDFL's share-
holders have been providing it with resources in the form of subscription
to its income notes. In keeping with the socialist orientation of the Govesn-
ment policy, Tanzania has no active private capital market and the bulk of
equity investments is provided by the Government directly through the budgetary
process. Overall, the respective roles and functions of the financial insti-
tutions are clearly defined and there is no costly duplication of effort.
28.       In spite of this well developed institutional framework, the
impact of the financial sector on domestic resource mobilization and
allocation has not been as substantial as it could have been. The decline in
domestic savings after 1971 from an impressive level coupled with the am-
bitious investment targets of the Third Five-Year Plan,will require that
Tanzania's economic managers address the question of reviving domestic
savings. The Bank's Basic Economic Report concludes that while interest
rates will remain less important in resource allocation in Tanzania's eco-
nomy than in a less controlled economy (because of the centralized decision
making on investments) they could still play a role on the mobilization side.
With the Government now a dissaver, the parastatal sector   will remain the
major saving entity in the economy, and hence will bear primary responsi-
bility for rebuilding savings. For maximum results, however, the private
sector will also need to be tapped. The recommended role for a more active
interest rate policy is thus to stimulate monetary savings from these sectors.
Specifically, on private savings it is felt that the existing interest
rates on savings deposits which vary according to term between 4 percent
and 6.5 percent are on the low side, considering the substantial inflation
rates in the recent past (although inflation averaged only 4 percent per year
in 1967 to 1973 it rose sharply to 20 percent in 1974 and 26 percent in 1975;
in 1976 it fell below 15 percent). Therefore, while there is no empirical
basis for judging what the exact response to more attractive interest rates
on bank deposits might be, a case exists for increasing deposit rates.
With regard to parastatal savings, the evidence shows that the financial
parastatals are better savers than many manufacturing and commercial paras-
tatals. Thus there also appears to be justification for allowing financial
parastatals to generate more surpluses by increasing their lending rates. The
Bank's  views   in this area were discussed with the Government during the
review of the Basic Economic Report.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed loan would be the third line of credit to TIB by
the Bank Group; the first two projects were approved in 1974 and in 1975
(a$6 million Credit, No. 460-TA, and a $15 million Loan,No. 1172-TA). TIB
also administers an IDA Technical Assistance Credit of $6 million (No. 601-TA)
for financing feasibility studies, capacity utilization investments and
training in the industrial sector. A report entitled "Appraisal of the
Tanzania Investment Bank," dated November 21, 1977 is being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The project was appraised in March/
April 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington in October 1977 and the
Tanzanian Delegation included representatives of Treasury, TIB and the
Attorney General. A loan and project summary is at the front
of this report.
Ownership and Role
30.       Established in 1970, TIB is wholly owned by the Tanzanirn Govern-
ment. It has an authorized capital of TSh 200 million of which TSh 100
million was paid-in as of June 30, 1977. The Government holds 60 percent
of the issued capital, the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) 30 percent, and
the National Insurance Corporation (NIC) 10 percent. Both NBC and NIC are
wholly owned by the Government. Within the institutional framework of
Tanzania, TIB's main role has been to provide financing to projects in the
directly productive sectors in the form of medium- and long-term loans. As
almost all sizeable projects are now promoted and implemented by the various
public sector parastatals, equity financing is usually provided directly
through the budgetary process. Through its independent appraisal and invest-
ment decision-making process TIB has provided a critical independent check
on the technical, financial and economic feasibility of parastatal invest-
ments which come to it for financing, thereby exerting a useful influence
on the quality of resource allocation in Tanzania. Having built up a good
reputation, TIB is gradually extending its activities from loan financing
to include project identification and promotion. It is also working in
conjunction with SIDO and  others    in drawing up a strategy for the develop-
ment of small industries. In addition, it is devoting increasing attention
to the operational problems of existing projects. Its rolethere has been
to use its influence as a major financier of projects to get holding com-
panies to undertake efficiency studies which would help improve the perform-
ance of their ongoing operations.
Board of Directors, Management and Organization
31.       TIB's Board is chaired by its Managing Director, who is appointed
by the President, and has eight other members. They include the Deputy
Principal Secretary of Finance and Planning, the Personal Assistant to the
President, a representative of CCM, the General Manager of NIC, a member of
Parliament and representatives of NBC. TIB's Board is actively involved in



- 14 -
TIB's work with the sole power of approving loans and equity investments.
A General Manager assists the Managing Director in averseeing TIB and its
organizational structure consists of four departments: Operations, Planning
and Development, Finance and Secretary's and Administration. Tanzanians
head all these departments. In November 1976, TIB established a Feasibility
Studies Unit to administer IDA's Technical Assistance Credit (para 29). This
Unit is now functioning within TIB's Operations Department and maintains
close liaison with TIB's appraisal and follow-up activities. As of March
1977, TIB's total professional staff numbered 41, of which eight were expa-
triates. TIB has developed an excellent training program for its staff,
making good use of overseas training programs and its expatriate staff in
training Tanzanians.
Operations and Portfolio
32.       Since its founding TIB's operations have grown rapidly.   During
FY77 TIB approved (net of cancellations) 20 loans for a total of TSh 238
million and four equity investments for a total of TSh 3.8 million.   Including
these operations TIB's cumulative loan approvals as of June 30, 1977 amounted
to 106 loans and 14 equity investments for TSh 677.5 million and TSh 38.5
million, respectively (all net of cancellations).   This expansion in opera-
tions has been accompanied by improvement in the speed of project processing
without lowering the overall quality of projects. The average lag between
loan approval by TIB's Board and the formal commitment of funds (through a
legal agreement between TIB and its borrower) has been reduced to two months,
which is satisfactory. As of June 30, 1977, TIB had disbursed TSh 347.8 million.
By further improving its follow-up during project implementation, a current
focus of its concern, TIB should be able to increase this disbursement rate
appreciably. The average size of TIB's loans approved increased from TSh 7.6
million in FY76 to TSh 11.9 million in FY77. TIB assists a broad range of
economic sectors and most TIB-assisted projects utilize domestic raw materials.
The most important sectors of TIB investment are food and food processing,
transport, chemical and rubber products, tourist development, textiles and
metals. Projects approved during the two years ending March 1977 are expected
to create new jobs at an average investment cost per direct job created of
about $12,000, which is reasonable given TIB's primary focus on medium- and
large-scale industry. These projects have an average estimated financial
rate of return of 21 percent and economic rate of return (incorporating
shadow wage and shadow foreign exchange rates) of 36 percent.
33.       As of June 30, 1977 TIB's loan portfolio consisted of 58 projects
involving TSh 294.9 million, of which TSh 114.5 million (39 percent) out-
standing in 22 projects was affected by arrears of over three months. While
this represents an improvement from the level outstanding at the time of the
second TIB line of credit (53 percent), this change does not fully reflect
the emphasis TIB has placed on addressing its portfolio problems. Over the
past two years, TIB has considerably strengthened its follow-up capacity.
It has conducted comprehensive reviews of each problem project, made
specific recommendations for resolving the causes of the problems and used



- 15 -
its influence as a financier to ensure that appropriate steps are taken in
response to these recommendations. During appraisal, TIB's efforts in problem
follow-up were assessed in detail and were found to be adequate. At nego-
tiations the status of each problem project was reviewed and it was confirmed
that TIB would continue its increased emphasis on problem projects. In
addition, TIB has begun actively to promote use of the Technical Assistance
Credit (Para 29 above) for studies of capacity utilization probleums. Of the
22 projects with arrears of over three months, in 12 projects (about 15 percent
by value of the portfolio) the arrears are likely to be collected in the near
future. Four more projects (involving 10 percent of the portfolio by value) were
under implementation and needed extensions of grace periods due to delays in
project completion. The remaining six projects (involving 14 percent of the
portfolio by value) were facing difficulties due to technical and marketi-ng
problems. While four of these projects are classified as having moderate
problems with a reasonable chance of overcoming their difficulties, two
(totalling TSh 19.1 million) are in poor condition and TIB may lose a portion
of its investments in them.
34.       TIB's equity portfolio was TSh 26.7   million  as of June 30, 1977 in-
cluding investments in the common stock of three companies (Tsh 10.6 million)
and the preferred stock of seven companies (TSh 16.1 million). Its major
investment (TSh 19.0 million) is in the common and preferred stocks of TDFL.
While the TDFL investment has been paying interest on its income notes, TIB's
other investments yield no return because the projects are experiencing
various degrees of problems or are under implementation.
Financial Condition
35.       As a result of the rapid growth of its operations, TIB's total
assets had increased from TSh 134.5 million in 1972 to over TSh 474 million
by June 30, 1977. This increase has been financed mainly through grants
from bilateral donors, long-term borrowings, and increased equity. TIB's
net worth during this period increased from TSh 52 million to TSh 302.4
million, mainly due to grants (TSh 182.8 million) and increased paid-in
capital and retained earnings. This rapid increase in TIB's equity base
has resulted in an improvement of its long-term debt to equity ratio from
an already sound position of 1.8:1 in 1971 to 0.5:1 in 1977. Because of
the low leverage in TIB's capital structure, the return on TIB's average
worth, as of June 30, 1977 was only 2.9 percent, which (in view of the
low  leverage) is  adequate.    TIB's  administrative  expenses   were
reasonable at 1.8 percent of the total assets. TIB's liquidity situation
concinues to be sound and the debt service coverage at 1.7 is adequate.
After TIB's auditors had reservations about the adequacy of TIB's provi-
sions for losses in 1976 (TSh 2.5 million), TIB's management agreed to carry
out a project-by-project review at the time of the 1977 audit. After comple-
tion of this review, provisions were made to the satisfaction of the auditors
(they now total TSh 5.1 million). Considering its strong equity base, TIB
would continue to be creditworthy even if it were necessary to write off a
sizeable portion of its loans and equity investments having serious problems.



- 16 -
Bank Group Experience with TIB
36.       Since its formation, TIB has developed rapidly into a well organ-
ized and professional financial intermediary. Its pragmatic willingness
to identify and resolve institutional problems and its continuous efforts
at increasing its effectiveness in guiding Tanzania's industrial develop-
ment has earned it considerable respect within Tanzania and with bilateral
and multi-lateral agencies. TIB's project appraisal work has considerably
improved over this time and it now has the ability to undertake comprehensive
financial and economic analysis of potential investment proposals. In res-
ponse to implementation and operational difficulties with some of its
investments TIB has expanded and improved its follow-up activities.
37.       The Bank Group has been extensively involved with TIB since its
founding and has worked closely with TIB in developing its potential as a
key participant in Tanzania's industrial development. In particular through
its review of the larger sub-projects submitted for approval, Bank Group
staff have been able to assist TIB in improving the overall quality of its
project analysis work. Under the initial IDA credit of $6 million to TIB
(Credit No. 460-TA), TIB financed five sub-projects with an average size of
TSh 10 million. These sub-projects include leather tanning, textiles,
farming and marketing of navy beans, cashewnut processing and detergent
manufacture.. One of these sub-projects is in operation and four are still
under implementation. The only one in operation (navy beans) has operating
problems and TIB is following this sub-project adequately. Under the
second line of credit, a loan of $15 million (Loan No. 1172-TA), TIB has
financed 14 sub-projects, of which nine are still under implementation.
These projects involve agro-processing, leather tanning, textiles, steel
rolling and fabrication of automotive bodies and spare parts. Both the
initial IDA credit and the Bank loan are fully committed. The 18 sub-
projects 1/ financed under the Bank Group's lines of credit are estimated
to have an average rate of return of about 39 percent and upon completion
will create employment for over 7500 persons.
TIB's Future Strategy
38.       In formulating its investment strategy, TIB has been guided by
the Third Five-Year Plan's investment priorities (para 25). Over the
medium-term, TIB's strategy is proposed to be as follows:
(a) to increase gradually its share of financing invest-
ments in the industrial sector from the present
20 percent to 25 percent, particularly by financing
the types of projects recommended in the Basic
Industrial Strategy;
(b) to increase its efforts in project identification and
promotion by getting more involved in the formulation
of the specific investment plans of the parastatals;
1/ One sub-project has received financing under both the loan and the credit.



- 17 -
(c) to pay more attention to the operational problems of
the projects it has already financed and to make funds
available for studies aimed at identifiying and re-
solving technical problems of operating companies; and
(d) to build up an adequate cadre of technical staff by re-
cruiting and training engineers in different specialties.
39.       We consider this strategy appropriate for TIB; it is consistent
with the Government's development priorities, fits well into TIB's role in
the Tanzanian economy and within its administrative capability.
Projected Operations, Resource Requirements and Financial Results
40.       During the next five years (1978 to 1982) the level of TIB's
lending is expected to increase by 15 percent per annum while its portfolio
of equity investments increases marginally: TIB is expected to approve
about TSh 1.6 billion in loans and TSh 10 million in equity investments in
various subsectors. Of the expected loan commitments of TSh 1.8 billion
during this period about TSh 1.3 billion will be disbursed. These medium-
term operational targets are within TIB's administrative capability and
its objective of financing 25 percent of Tanzanian industrial investment.
41.       TIB's projected resource requirements in foreign currency from
July 1977 through December 1980 will amount to TSh 608 million ($73.3). To
meet these requirements TIB will utilize TSh 440 million presently available
for commitments leaving a gap of TSh 168 million (about US$20 million). As
bilateral aid is expected to provide further US$5 million to TIB, a Bank
loan of US$15 million is proposed to finance the remaining 75 percent of the
gap. TIB expects to meet its domestic resource needs through funds generated
from operations and from funds provided by the Treasury.
42.       TIB's return on average net worth is expected to increase from
2.9 percent in 1977 to about 5.3 percent by 1982. This level of profit-
ability would enable it to consider dividend payments to shareholders
after 1981 when its retained earnings will reach TSh 100 million, the level
which must be reached according to TIB's Charter before dividends can be
declared. TIB is projected to hold its administrative expenses below 2 per-
cent of its average total assets although its financial expenses are expected
to rise as TIB resorts to increased borrowing. While TIB has a sound equity
base adequate to meet any portfolio losses, the projected return on its
equity is rather modest owing to the large amount of grants in the equity
base. TIB's long-term debt to equity ratio of 0.5:1 in 1977 is expected
to increase to 1:1 by 1982. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that TIB's long-term debt to equity ratio would not be allowed to exceed
3:1 (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Mobilization of Domestic Resources and Interest Rates
43.       TIB has not been active in mobilizing domestic resources directly
as its paid-in capital and various grants have provided adequate domestic
currency resources. Moreover its concern with improving its capability in
its primary areas of responsibility has not allowed the expansion of TIB's
activities into direct resource mobilization. While Bank staff do not see
an expanded role for TIB at the moment in this area, this is an issue which
will be closely watched in future sector and project work.
44.       TIB's lending rates are among the highest in Tanzania and, although
they have not been positive in real terms in the past years, given Tanzania's
experience with inflation (para 28), they have been sufficient to provide TIB
with a reasonable spread. In view of the fact that its present rate of interest -
11 percent is expected to be positive in real terms with the lowering of the
inflation rate, Bank staff views TIB's present interest rate acceptable. Further-
more, since TIB charges a one percent commission, a commitment fee of one percent
on undisbursed balances and passes on the foreign exchange risks to the Borrower,
the effective rate of interest is considerably higher than 11 percent.
Terms of the Loan
45.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against foreign exchange
requirements, i.e., 100 percent c.i.f. cost of direct imports, 65 percent
of the invoice price of goods previously imported into Tanzania and 40
percent of the cost of civil works (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
46.       The loan would be repaid according to a flexible amortization
schedule, conforming to the aggregate amortization schedules of TIB's sub-
loans, which will have a maximum maturity of 15 years including adequate
grace periods (Section 2.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). TIB will need
the Bank's prior approval of each project using more than $800,000 equi-
valent of the proposed loan and will not be able to approve more than an aggre-
gate of $7 million equivalent through this procedure without the Bank's approval
(Section 2.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Under the last Bank loan these
limits were $400,000 and $3 million, respectively; the proposed increases are
in recognition of the improved quality of TIB's appraisal work.
Project Justification and Risks
47.       TIB is a well organized and competently managed institution which
is making positive contributions to the economic development of Tanzania
through the selection and financing of economically justified, financially
viable and technically feasible projects, and through provision of technical



- 19 -
assistance for the management of such projects. It has an appropriate medium-
term strategy involving, among other things, increased lending to the productive
sectors in accordance with the Basic Industrial Strategy. Furthermore, it is
helping improve the operational efficiency of parastatal enterprises by its
willingness to fund consultants to carry out efficiency studies and to pro-
vide training opportunities under IDA's Technical Assistance Credit. To meet
the lending targets it has set under this strategy, it will need foreign
resources. This proposed loan has, therefore, been recommended to provide
funds for TIB to meet part of its foreign resource requirements through
December 1980. While there are no major institutional risks involved in lend-
ing to TIB, the general policy and operational problems in the industrial sector
affect TIB financed projects. These are, however, general sectoral problems
which are being addressed by the Government in that context and they are not
expected to endanger TIB's viability or prevent it from operating as a financial
intermediary. Therefore, while recognizing these general problems, it is felt
that TIB is creditworthy for continued Bank Group lending.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Tanzania Invest-
ment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Republic of
Tanzania and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Agreements conform to the no-mal pattern for loans
to development finance companies.
49.       Special features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are
reflected in Part III of Annex III.
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
WashinRton. D.C.
November 21, 1977






AN1    I
TABLE 3A                                      Page 1 of 4 pages
TANZANIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2-                            TANZANIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      945.1                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     517.                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE          KENYA      1UEA, 3ZF. CF     MALAYSIA**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     6        1.o*A loo.o*A 180.0*ab       140.0*      260.0      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR, MILLION)            9.6/a    12.9A a   15-1-ab            11.2        32:2       10.8
POPULATION DENSITY                                               a
PER SQUARE KM.                      11.0       14.0      17    .            19.0      321.0        33.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        18.0      25.0      29.0 Ka           113.0     1371.0       115.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)        51.Y       50.5      47.0               49.0        35.0       42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.1      23.0      s0.l               17.0        11.4       12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE U/THOU)      190.0   160.0-165.0/D                   137.0       60.0 1!     40.8 
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YAS)     3J.7        41.8     IC4.5               49.1       65.0        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..       3.2       3.2                3.4        2.6         2.6 /
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)                                       a
TOTAL                                2.3A       3.0O&L    2.7_               3.1        2.3         2
URBAN                                 5.0       5.6       7.   0             6.3        6.4         3.?
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           4.6       5.5d      7.3                9.9        41.2       26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42.5a &    44.4 4                       48.4       42.1        44
15 TO 64 YEARS                      555.Las . 53.0L 2      ..               48.0       54.5        52.1i8
65 YEARS AND OVER                    2.0 2.6.                                3.6         3.4        3.2a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8O/a-1.1                                         0.9         ../
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2 .a.                                1.1 /       1.4        1 -
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          4.         .         ..               66.1     4424.7       222.2
USERS (x OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..        ..                 ,,       42.0         9.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        4900.0     5600.0 i  8300.0 L           50o0.0    10200.0      2900.  a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (t)        9.0ag      91.0o       ..               90.0       S0.5        43.90a
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)            ..        .-      16.o      f.                   4.5         6.0 a b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECDO BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      33.5        ..               20.2 2      17.1       28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      63.3        ..               52.6       44.5        56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        2.3                          3-         7 1         3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       7.8        .117                        17.9        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ __---
t OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..        ..                 ..        28.0
t OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           .         ..        ..                 ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
_ --- - -_ - -- - _-
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21750.0A k21570.A   20800.0 l           7830.0 /d   2180.0/ 
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9240.0 or4890.0/a 3180.07              1470.07d    2170o             /a..
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          570.0 a    700.07E      ..              770.0     1900.0       270.01!.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        69.0       73.0     86.o               101.0      103.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             42.0       43.0      63.0 Le            71.0       65.0        49.0N
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0 &     23.0         .               29.0       19.0        20.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..         ..        ..                1.9          .5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      24.0       35.0      41.0               64.0      104.0        B9.0^
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     2.0        3.0       3.0                9.0/e     41.0        34.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            13.0       13.0      13.0               t3.0       12.0        13.0/il
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONOARY)                    23.0       10.0/C      ..                2.01e     16.0         3.0/2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                17.0         -      49.0 d             30.0       87.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               1.6&        ..        ..                 ..        2.7         2.3A!
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                                3  oA  d*                               80._Old     65.0_ad
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..        ..                 ..       50.0        43.0a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                                                                     30.0        30..0 /3
CONSUMIPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         2.0       11.0      16.0               48.0      126.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          3.0        3.0       3.0                9.0        2.0        27.o
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          16.0       31.0      43.0               68.0      307.0       302.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.1  !    0.1       0.1                0.5        3.5         4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AMESC I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1s60 refer to NUw yewr between 1959 and 1961, for 1-970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Moto Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1973.
O N? per capita data are based 00 Vorld Best Atlas methabDlifl (1974-76 basis).
04Malasoia has been selected as an objectiVe cainbs beosasMe its population is congprable in size sand Its economic dewelopoent is severs), steps
ahead of Tanzania.
TANZAARCA           1960     A.  Mainland Tanzania;      Ab  1957, African Population only;       Ac   Ratio of popuxlation under 15 and 65 and over to tots.)
labor force;     /d   1965 ;   fe   1962;    /f   Registered, not all practicing in the country;        4E   1961-63;
/h  1958, Zanzibar only.
197      A.  Mainland Tanzania;      Ab  1967;     14  1965;     1d  As percentage of urban households.
M:ST RECEIT ESTIMATE:      /a  i976;     Ab  Mainland Tanzania;      /c  1967-73;     14   1972;     /e  1969-71 aveage;       If  Urban.
RERA                1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 sand 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;          lb  Labor force age 15-59 years;
Ac  Urban;     /d  Registered, not all practicing in the country;             Tots). secondary includes teacher traininig
at the third level.
KOREA REp. OF.       1970    /a   Government estimate is 38.0;      lb As percentage of employment,        /t  Registered, not all Practicing in the country;
1d  Water piped inside.
MALAYSIA             1970    /.  West Malaysia;      lb  Registered applicants for work;       ft  1964-66;     1d   Piped eater inside only.
llgfINITIONSO OP SOCIAL I1(OICATOIiS
Land Ares (thou ;=2)                                                                     PsPulatisn Per sursie  Peron - Popoistion dioided by n,nbsr of pratictng
Total -Totsal surface ares snaprisiag land ares sod island watars.                         mals and feast  "rsd.ato nuss"troi-ed       or 'certifisd" cusa,ad
sAris. -moat recess estimate of agrisoltuu'a   area usad temporarily or peena-             s-Miliry persesie   with training or eoperfsne.
measly for crops, pastursa, market & kitchen gsrdsas or to lie fallms                  Pp.plstism par hospital bad - Papulation dividsd by n,mhar of hospital beds
svilsble in public sad private gea.ral and specialised bospito1 and
G? poar c,pit, (US$) - iNP per capita s-iatiosis  at current starket prices,               rehabilitation cantata, encludas nursing bomss and establishoente for
.calculted by sam   conerio- method    sWorld Beak Atlas (1973-75 basis);                custodial. and preosotive care.
1960; 1970 asd 1975 data.                                                              per rasito sunPly Of caore       of s  requirementss) - Composed from energy
sqoiv-lest of ass food sopplies   -wliable is .-utry Par capita psr day;
Pop.l.tion end vital   -ta-i-nn                                                            svaist     ople     npriss doassnis pradustion, iapcrts less sepcrre. and
Ppslastion (old-yea r million)   Oso    uyfrt.      if cot avaislabl, avarage                s..ge  is stock; set supplies s-ctde aslnal fsed, seeds, quatities used
of two end-year estimates; 1"60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                     in fond processing and mess. in distribution; requirenets were setiosted
by FA0 base.d on physiological needs for macoat ac-tivity and health tons,id-
Population density -. pr square ho - Mid-year peputation per square kilometsr              sting enviroosntal temperatore, body weights, age and se. distributions of
(100 hectares) of total area.                                                            popolation, and all1ing lit for wate as bousehold is-a.
Population doenity -par square ho of osric. leand - Conputed as shor    for              per capita supply of protsia (Orso   ear day) - Pronsin contest of per c.,'ta
agrisoltora1 land only.                                                                  set supply of food per dey; met supply of food is defined as shave; reqttr-
ments for all oustcries establisbed by USDA Economic Riese-tch Services
Vital statistics                                                                           provide for a ninian   allowsma  of 60 grase of total pronais per day, and
Crude birth rats oar thousad. averaRs - Ansels live births per thousand of                 20 grams of animal and poise pronsin, of which 10 gras, should ho animal
mid-past popslation, te-year    rithettic averges ending is 1960 sad 1970,               protei.; those standards are laser than thone of 75 grase of total prsnsio
an   feayer a"eig ensding is 1975 f- orsts recent eatiastie.                          and 13 gras of saisial protein as an average for tho   -Ied, proposd bly FAO
Crude dastb rate per tho;send. averass - Annual deaths per tosusend of mid-year            inroTrd        oldPdlray
population; tao-year arithmetir averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-             Per capita Protein supply from animal and poles - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for onst recent estimate,                                    derived from aninls and pulses in grase per day.
Infant onrst.ity rate C/thou) - A-.u.I deaths of infants onder on    year of age         Death rate C/thou) aits. 1-4 - Annua desths par thousand ins. sgrcop 1-4
per thoueaad live births.                                                                years, to childrees in thia age grou.P; suggested as on indicator of
Lifa enopctanuy at birth Cons) - Averege numehr of years of life remaining at              mal-tsrition.
birth; usually five-yea averages ending Is 1960, 1970 end 1971 for develop-
ing omatries.                                                                          Education
irons reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters .    oa will hoar             Adjusted enrollment ratio - srimary school - Esr0limet of alt ages as por-
is hor normal reprod-ctive period if ehe separiencts present age-speifis                 ceniage of primary school-age population; includes children, aged 6-11 year
fertility rates, usually five-year evergago  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975               but adjuated for different lengths of primay education; for coutries with
for deveoping conries,,ya                                                                universal sduition, enrolmet may ...osd 100. since some pupls are balm.
Popultion sr_ed    rat    ) - total - Compood   nmausi growth rates of aid-ya              or savew the official school age.
population for 1910-60, 1960-70 sod i970-75.                                           Adjusted enratlo   t rantco-sononrdsr school - Conputed as shoes; secondary
Pop.ltison oroseth rans (%) - orban - Computed like growth rate of total                   education requires at leas.t foor years of approved primary inettuoisa;
popoletion; differest definitions of arban ores may affect comparability of              provides gene.ral, vonatlonal or teac.her training instructions for pupils
data easing emantries.                                           of II so 1~~~~~~~~~~7 year  of age; nrepdnc c-rsas are generallynecluded.
Urban  ontation C of total) - Ratio of urban so total population; different               Yass     oetm       rvdd(is         n   sodlvl)-Ttlpaso
definitions of orbsnaress may affect comparability of dat.amsong contries,                schooling; an .e.ondary leve, vonational instrution may ha partially or
completely secluded.
All: strcture   Eer"ent) -Children (0-1i years), working-age (15-64 yearn;,              Vonational esro11lnet CX of secondary) - V-tonalicoinlooitotione include
end retired (65 years ad aver) as peorcetges of nid-year pspulation.                     techeial, Industrial or tshor prgras which operate independently or as
A.Ss dependenc.y ratio -Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to those               depert..tra of secondary institotions.
of ages1   throog  An                                                                   duicttaitere-y rate.CX)t-Lliterate adults (ship so read and wire) as pe-
Economic de5pendencyhraris - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod ovr to                 retg     ftotal adul   poplation aged 15 years and over.
the labor force in.ge greP of 15-4 years.cH ..in
Fotill Plannino - accennOgre Coonutsive   tbou   - Co1mltice numbe   of acceptors          asn
of birth-control deic ce  under aus pices of national femily planing progrom            Pereasear room (urban) - Average number of persons Per room in oncupied
since inception.                                                                          conventioma  dwellings in urban areas, dwellings enclude so-permanet
family plasins -      ruer  C of maried women) - P-erntagee of married women of            structoree   ad  noncupid Parts.
child-bearing ae(54yer)wouebirch-control devices so all married                         Occupied dlIns w        ithout ptad water C) - Occpied so-entiona1 dwellings
sass in eas age group.                                                                    is urban and rure1 areas withou     inside or outside piped water facilities
Employment                                                                                Acces  to electricity I%o      alII llns      Convetional dwellings witb
Tast1 labor force- (thousand) - Economic-lly active persos, including somed                 electricity is living quaters as percen t of total dwelling     is urban -nd
forces and seepleped but necrlding house,wivee, students, etc.; definitions               rural -ara..
in vriou  cootrme  arsass  omprable.                                           Rural  Ueliss coneested to electricity f%) - Computed as above for rura
labr  or c i aricusr     it) c- g  istura   labor force (in farming, forestry,          dwlig      ony
buntiagdand fishig    as pernentage of total labor force.              n   h.on-tn
Olnemelovy  CX of labgor force) - Olnemployed are usualy defined as persoswo              Cosnt
aer able and willing to take a Job, out of a Job on a gives day, rasind sot             Radio r..civ-rn (oar thou nap) - All ty-pes of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking sorb for a specified mninksm   period net e..ceediog one            to general public Per thousand of population; eocludes unlicensed r-e     _esor
week; may not be comparable betwseen countries due to diff-eret definitions               is coutries and in years when registratIon of radio sets was in effect;
of unmlyed sod source of datseg.,       eponn      office statistic, sample             data for recen.t yeare nay not be comp-rsle since noes coutries abolished
surveys, sompalsory unemployment leuac.licensing.
Pesse:n,eerca.rs (oar thou eon) - Pass.enger cars cumprine vontor earn eassting
incas dIstributio    - Percentsge sf private incase (bosh in cash and kind)                 les  tha  eight preona; seclu.des ombula.c.s, hearses and nilisary
received by richesn 5X, richest 2OX, psornas 2OX, and poorest 40% of house-               vehicles.
hods.                                                                                   Electricity Ckhb/yr per can) - Annual cnm-psion of industrial, sasme-cia1
publ ic and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Ditetribution of land ownrship - Perce..tages of land ossed by weslthlest 10%               basedon production data, withouc alloanc      for leases is grids but allow-
and poorest lOX of land owers.                                                            leg for imports and eaportsof .ecetr1isiy.
NReyprint (kg/yr per can) -Per c.pits annual consumption is bilograse
Health and Nutrition                                                                        estimated from doneotic production pius net imports of newprint.
Populaition orphysician - Population divided by snumer of practising
physicians qulified from a medical school as university level.



TAN*ZANIA                                                         page 3 of 4 pages
Lome m ilonsoLdf7fI
Actual                        Projected              1967 -   1973 -   1975 -    195       173 1975         19-
1973      1974     Ž2.7        197T6     197      -10       1972     1975      1977      1980       9       97      16
KATIGIA,L ACCOUNTS
At 1973               Prices & Exchange Rates        Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic ProduCt           1BIUT     1917.6   1966.7      2065.1    2168.3   2510,1        6.0     2.7       5.0       5.0     100.0   102.0    101.0
Gains frome Terms of Trade Fr     ___       -20.5    -38.4       +19.7      -3.0    -24.9                                                     -2.0     -1.0
Gross Domestic Income            1866.4    1897.1   1-928.3     2084.8    2163.32s5r           -5.0      1.8       5.9       5,2    1O00.0   1o00.0   100.0
Import (incl. NSr)                545.1    508.4     474.6       427.4     464.1   549.1        7.4     -6.7      -1.1       3.0     29.2     24.6     22.1
Exports    c  (import capacity) 417.2       304.1    273.5       328.2     324.1    436.8        2.7   -18.7       8.5       9.7     22.4     14.3     17.6
Re-source Gap                     127.9     204.3     19 9.1       99.2    140.0    112.3                                             69      1.         .
Consumption Expenditures         1586.8    1654.2   1669.1      1719.0    1829.1  2062.5         5.5     2.5       4.7       4.3     85.1     66.6     83.0
Investment    "(mine. stocks) 405.5        447.2     458.3       465.0     474.2   535.0        9.7      6.3       1.7      3.1      21.7     23.8     21.5
sIlo savings          ~~~~277.6  242.9   259.2       363.8     334.2    422.7        2.5    -3.3      13.5      10.3      14.9    134       7.
Natuonal. Savings                 271.3     269.5    309.7       402.1     375.1    447.5       3.2      6.8      10.0       7.6     14.5     16.1   .18.0
MERCHANDIISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
1973     1974    1975
Imports
Cspit.al goods                  116.0     149.6    199.8                         309.4                                             23.9     20.8     27.3
intermediate goods ~3.fue1s) 180.7        228.7    213.7                         455.9                                             37.2     31.6     29.2
Fuel.s and related materials     41.8      74.8     87.8                          156.2                                             8.6     10.4     12.0
of wbd.ch:  Petrolewns        (41.8)   (74.8)    (87.8)                       (156.2)                                            (6.6)   (10.4)   (12.0)
Consumpti'on. goods             147.2    266.0     230.5                 __      279.5                                            ...3L     17 naz   'Al .3L5.
Tua I.e Mar.Thorts (cif)        4Ir      irr        nrr1.      69T.      83T5.0  1200.9                                           100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
primary products bni.l. fuels) 261.3     304.9     259.4                         381.6                                             79.7     90.1     79.0
Fuels and related materials      12.5      18.3     18.1                          36.0                                              3.6      4.6      5.5
or whichb:  Petroleum         (12 5)   (18.3)    (18.1)                        (36.0)                                            (3.8)    (4.8)    (5.5)
Manufacturd goods                54.1      57.5     50.9                 __       132.9                                            16L5     15.     .±L..
ToalMehb   Eprts (fob)       3ir      JT!         =F        4     3F  480.0   750.5                                            100.0    100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border. Traae         ..        .
Merchandise Trade IndiCeis                     Average 1973- -     10
Exort Price IndeX               10.0     14 14     14.          891      17.      1.6
lImport Price Index            100.0     159.0     168.4       178.6    195.3    239.7
Teroms of Trade Index           100.0     91.5      84.3       105.9     96.2     91.2
Exports Volume Index           100.0      79.8      70.5        70.7     77.9    104.2
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Oats at 1973 -    Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
1967-72   1973-75  1975-80          1975    1975     1980
Agriculture                    645.1     624.1     666.7       700.0    724.5    808.4           2.6-      1.5       3.T9          3-9.4   36-.1    36.2
industry and Mining            306.2     306.2     299.2       314.2    329.9    295.3           5.0      -1.2       5.7           18.7    17.1     17.7
Service                        686.1     742.8     783.9       823.0    874.7   1029.5           6.1       6.8       5.6          .41.9   ..44..   ..A-L.
Total                         1637.4    1673.1    1749.8      1-837.2  1929.1   2233.2           4.5       3.2       5.0          100.0   100.0    100.0
Prelim.       Est.,
PUBLIC FINANCE                     SY 73    FY 74     FY 75       SE 76                                                                 As Percent of GDP
(Cenm-tral Gover-nment)                                                                                                               1973     1974    1975
Current Receipts              2284      3022      3900        3994                                                                 20.1    !TTK     T- !2-
Crrent Exenditures            2066      2695      3991        5630                                                                 18.1    21.1     20.5
hdgtar  Savilngs             2118    3727    --91           364                                                                  2.1      0.o7   71.4
Other Public Sector            564       75                                                                                         3.9     4.7
Public Sector Investment       956      1642     2352        2309                                                                   9.9    12.6     12.5
cuIPRRENT EXPENIDITURE DETAILS                 Actual         Prelim.   Est.
As % Total Current Expend.             Sr92     nl1974    sYn975    ni1976
Education                              '   n       =7T      113U      =77
Other Social Services                    14.5     15.5      12.2      14.4
Agriculture                               8.9     12.1       13.3      7.0
Other Economic Services                  12.4     12.2      10.3       9.2
Administration and Defense               36.2     35.1      30.9      31.9
Other                                    10.3      7.9      18.3      20.4
Total Current Expenditures              100.0   100.0      100.0     100.0
RELECTED INDICATORS                                 1965-      1973-    1975-    1975-
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)              1972       1975     1977     1978
Average ICOR                                        -FT        -rW       4TY     rTT
Import Elasticity                                   1.6       -2.5      -0.2     0.6
Marginal Ibsestic Savings Rate                      0.1       -0.2       0.4      0.3
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.2        0.6       0.3      0.2
LABOR FORCE AND                        Total Labor Force                                       Value Added Per Worker (Crrn       Pries
OUTPUTr PER WOPKER                 In ldf-lions 5       6o     oa                             In IJ.S.Dollara      Pecn     fAege
191Mr                                                1971                    1971
Agriculture                            5.3                 91                                       98                      43
Industry                               0.1                  2                                     1590                     694
Service                                0.4                  7                                     2170                     948
Total                                  5.8                10029                                                             0
not applicable         -nil or negligible
not available         --less than half theEACI
smallest unit shasm                                                                                                   FebA CPIA   7



~~~4AiI~~~~~  I  _*  ,   0*  1 W
b C~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ _1  N  N  .  0  .4  AN  At  0.-
12 ~~~.  ..           .,          0 > n, 
a ~ ~  o    !f°@_o     r1          f  N                  N G  _3e
i
31~~~~~~~~~~ o          N.  _ N   0.  NN.tIO ~  e   3 
S fiN  o i  0°  Ni1C  I                    Alo
r   N         J    Fe=o I^
C O I         N *    i3    i'  , '   g n i i 0   i M ih53:0   Igs3#l3^?E



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
As of OCTOBER    31, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
1/
No.              Borrower    Purpose                                 Bank   IDA- Undisbursed
Four loans and ten credits fully disbursed                           70.2   72.0
586-TA   1969    Tanzania    Roads                                    7.0             1.4
217-TA   1970                Tobacco                                         9.0      0.2
232-TA   1971                Education                                       3.3      0.2
265-TA   1971                Roads                                           6.5      0.6
287-TA   1972                Smallholder Tea                                10.8     2.1
371-TA,  1973                Education                                      10.3      5.8
382-TA'/ 1973                Livestock                                      18.5     6.9
454-TA   1974                Cotton                                         17.5     14.2
460-TA   1974                Tanzania Investment Bank                        6.0      1.3
1014-TA   1974                Cashewnut                               21.0            9.7
495-TA   1974                Sites and Services                              8.5     4.0
507-TA   1974                Highway Maintenance                            10.2     7.1
508-TA   1974                Rural Development                              10.0     7.2
1041-TA   1974                Sugar                                    9.0            3.4
580-TA   1975                Dairy                                          10.0     8.2
1128-TA   1975                Textile                                 15.0            6.0
1172-TA   1975    TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank                15.-0           8.0
601-TA   1976    Tanzania    Technical Assistance                            6.0     5.8
606-TA   1976        "       National Maize Program                         18.0    15.0
607-TA   1976        if      Education                                      11.0    10.3
1306T-TA  1976                Power                                   30.0           27.0
1307-TA   1976                Forestry                                 7.0            6.7
652-TA   1976                Fisheries                                       9.0     8.8
658-TA   1976                Tobacco Processing                              8.0     7.0
1354-TA   1977                Urban Water Supply                      15.0           15.0
1385T-TA  1977                Morogoro Industrial Complex             11.5           11.4
1386-TA   1977                Morogoro Industrial Complex             11.5           11.4
703-TA-1 1977                Rural Development (Tabora)                      7.2     7.2
732-TAp. 1977                Second Sites and Services                      12.0    12.0
743-TA-' 1977                Trucking                                       15.0    15.0
TOTAL                                                  212.2 5/278.8  238*.9
of which has been repaid                               2.6-   5.8-
209.6 273.0
Amount sold                          0.1
of which has been repaid            0.1
Total now outstanding-/                               209.6  273.0
Total undisbursed                                     100.0  138.9
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.
2/  Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million which has been fully disbursed.
3/ Not yet effective.   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/  Not yet effective.
5/ Includes repayments through September 30, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF OCTOBER 31. 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year    Borrower     Purpose                                 Ban         Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                            93.4
638-EA   1969    EAHC         Harbours                                35.0            1.3
674-EA   1970    EARC         Railways                                42.4            5.3
865-EA   1972    EAHC         Harbours                                26.5            2.0
914-EA   1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications                      32.5            5.8
1204-EA   1976    EADB        Development Finance                      15.0           14.7
Total                                                      244.8            29.1
of which has been repaid                                  39.82/
Total now outstanding                                       205.0
Amount sold                            24.4
of which has been repaid             24.4                  0.0
Total now held by Bank /                                    205.0
Total undisbursed                                            29.1
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes repayments through September 30, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION"/
(As of October 31, 1977)
There are currently 28 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - December 30, 1977
Project infrastructure investments are 95% complete, all 15 com-
plexes and 114 villages are established and water development has improved.
Only 314 km of roads have been established compared with appraisal estimates
of 1,104 km, but the reduced road construction program is considered suffi-
cient for present production. A total of 11,300 farmers, about 81% of
appraisal estimates, have been recruited. However, only about 6,900 are
growing tobacco. The area under tobacco is 2,170 ha, and with an estimated
yield for 1976/77 of 774 kg/ha, production is expected to be 1.68 million kg
The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) will intensify their efforts to
encourage more farmers to grow tobacco in the project area, and to improve
extension and cooperative services. There are still middle-management
gaps in TAT, but steps have been taken to improve financial control and
bring the accounts up to date.
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems,the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an
improvement in the control over field activities. Because of weak
extension and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha
planted since 1971 will have to be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields
have been lower than anticipated. Bank recommendations regarding crop
yields, husbandry techniques, field organization, TTA structure and
extension activities are now being implemented. Furthermore, market
trends in tea have taken a favorable turn. Progress on the project is
expected to continue to improve.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project executions.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an indepth review in November
1976.  Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in
correcting some of the deficiencies in the livestockmarketingparastatal
(TLMC), and adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations
in the ranching parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its
overall efficiency, and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory.
A financing proposal for NARCO is currently being prepared for present-
ation to Treasury and the two financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in
order to return NARCO to financial viability. The village livestock
development component continues to have the same organizational problems
evident during the review and the seriousness of the situation has been
brought to the attention of the Prime Minister's Office. In summary,
significant progress has been made since the review but major problems
remain and require continued attention.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation continues to be frought with difficulties
and the project continuesto face serious staffing problems. The Government
is taking steps to fill these vacancies and a new Project Manager was
recently approved by IDA. The credit recovery rate remairndisappointing
and while fertilizer is being used on approximately 20% of the cultivated
hectarage, yield responses to the input package appear to be low. Few
field trials or extension demonstrations have been implemented. The main
project achievements are land consolidation and the building construction
program. Analysis of research data by RMEA and the Bank-financed project
preparation team in Mwanza raised questions about the technical package
originally recommended for this project. This matter is receiving close
examination by Bank supervision missions. In addition, a technical review
mission visited Tanzania in March and the recommendations of that mission
were endorsed by the Government. Actions based on those recommendations
are being kept under close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily and the original
completion target dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay
of about two months. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly as its



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
management capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government's
consultants have effectively supervised construction and the project
includes provision of technical assistace for factory operation, the
development of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving
close attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Substantial progress has been made on the construction of
infrastructure during the past six months as a result of the arrival of
project-financed transport equipment, the overcoming of problems related
to the procurement of construction materials, improved organization at
the district level and impressive mobilization of village self-help
resources. On the other hand, progress in the agriculture sector has been
less than expected, particularly for cotton.    During the past crop season,
the usage of agricultural inputs in project villages was lower than antici-
pated, principally due to late procurement of inputs by the procurement
and credit institution. The trials established were limited in number, but
should give useful information regarding crop responses to technical
recommendations. Standards of village bookkeeping and the level of credit
repayment in project villages have improved. A total of 57 villages are to
be included in the investment for this fiscal year, and disbursements are
expected to improve.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The sugar factory related to this project is now operating and
estate and outgrower development continues satisfactorily. Due to lower
cane yields an area of 13,890 acreas will be established instead of the
11,900 acres envisaged at appraisal. Planting will be completed in the
1977/78 season. All buildings and roads are completed. Kilombero Sugar
Company suffers from cash flow problems because there have been delays in
providing counterpart funds. A new Advisory Management Agreement has been
concluded with HVA of Amsterdam with effect from May 1.    The policy of
sugar growing has been clarified and the ex-factory price of sugar has
been raised from TSh2,200 per ton to TSh2,500 per ton with effect from
July 1. The first stage of the National Sugar Survey has been completed
and the report is being reviewed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Progress achieved so far in implementation of the village
fisheries program on Lake Tanganyika and of the market and pollution
studies is satisfactory. To eliminate further delays in establishing
the commercial fishing centers both on the coast and on Lake Tanganyika,
the Government appointed a Chairman for the Tanzania Fisheries Corporation
(TAFICO) in August. This should strengthen TAFICO's management so that it
can play its intended role in commercial aspects of the project.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with
regard to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration
on high potential maize regions, at its mid-term it is beset by a number
of problems which must be overcome if the project is to achieve its
primary objective. The project's extension services are seriously under-
staffed, and the deficiencies of extension services and the Government's
continued indecision on its reorganization are constraints affecting
project implementation. Motorcycles and landrovers delivered to the
Regions have greatly increased mobility of supervisory staff; however,
other essential equipment and aids will not be available before mid-1978
because of considerable procurement and administrative delays. Farmers'
contributions to the financing of project inputs vary from Region to Region;
in areas of high maize potential about 80% of the inputs have been dis-
tributed in the agreed manner, but in the remaining Regions contributions
have ranged from 13% to 42%. A recent decrease in the subsidy element
from 75% to 50% for all inputs has doubled the cost to the farmers of
fertilizer. Many of the difficulties experienced result from limited
cooperation between the central ministry responsible for the overall
project and the regional authorities in charge of local implementation.
Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying authority for
input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for assessing,
ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation. Another
problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on mono-
culture of maize production. A joint RHEEA/Headquarters mission recently
reviewed the above difficulties and its recommendations are expected shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness-
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the large scale parastatal dairy farms continues
to proceed ahead of schedule but the lack of occupancy rights has resulted
in the Tanzania Rural Development Bank suspending reimbursement on most
farms. This, however, has apparently been resolved during the indepth
project implementation review in October. Planning continues for the
ujamaa component but village response continues to be poor. The milk
processing component continues to make good progress.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on the project has been slow so far. About 1100 ha (63%
of the appraisal target) were planted during the first year. The survival
rate of these plantings is low, but nursery and plantation techniques are
being improved, and future results should be much better, particularly
since the 1977 planting season was climatically erratic and atypical. There
are some serious management problems, which are in the process of being
solved. All key posts are now filled, except that of the Roads/Mechanical
Engineer which is expected to be filled very shortly. The road construction
program is on schedule, but the building program has barely begun, and is now
expected to take 3 - 4 years to complete, instead of the appraisal estimate
of 2 years; however, this delay will not materially affect the production
aspects of the project. Procurement and disbursements have just started.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Retroactive financing was authorized in January 1977 in order to
commence work on the improvements to the existing processing line and stores
at Dar es Salaam, but because of delays in shipping and import formalities,
installation of equipment for the processing line can now be completed only
in time for the 1978 processing season. Work on the Dar es Salaam store
was also delayed due to sub-contractor problems, but these problems have now
been resolved. Workshop equipment and machinery for the new processing line
has been ordered. However, as the new line will occupy twice the space
envisaged at appraisal, the building program under the project may be more
extensive than anticipated.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
Credit No. 703-TA/Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: $12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
These credits are expected to be declared effective shortly. In
mid-November, an initial supervision mission is scheduled.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
The Closing Date for this project was extended to December 31,
1977 to provide ample time for its completion. Ineffective project unit
management, failure to utilize the technical assistance component of the
project, and shortages of construction materials all contributed to the
delays in completion. All civil works, furniture and equipment contracts
have now been awarded and civil works are approaching completion. Procure-
ment of remaining equipment, finalization of accounts, and disbursement of
the remaining funds by the Closing Date will be closely monitored. Transfer
of the nine rural training centers (now called Folk Development Colleges)
from the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of
National Education appears to have significantly improved the management of
the centers; training objectives and the target group intended for the
original centers have been retained.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2, 1973;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The project is being implemented with assistance from DANIDA.
Projected estimates of project cost overruns have been reduced within
manageable limits as a result of curtailments of the project (deletion of
three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated bids on civil
works. Civil works contracts have been awarded on all project institutions
and construction is proceeding on 12 of 15 sites. The experimental self-
help construction project item (eight Community Education Centers) continues
to require special attention to help overcome problems of supply, distribu-
tion and control of building materials and supervision of construction
standards. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in health
1/ Credit No. 703-TA-5 ($4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of $7.2 million.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
included in the project has been slow but arrangements are now being made
with WHO to recruit these specialists. Disbursements are now 40% of
appraisal estimates, and implementation is, in general, proceeding
satisfactorily. It is likely that the closing date will require a
postponement of up to eighteen months.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project made a good start with respect to the Village Manage-
ment Technicians (VMT) Training Program. Five Rural Training Centers have
been rehabilitated, instructional staff have been trained, and courses have
commenced. However, delays are now being experienced due to the limited
availability of local resources and some problems have emerged with respect
to the utilization of the VMTs. Expansion of the capacity of 15 secondary
schools is slightly ahead of schedule.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: 1/ $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Project implementation has been slow and the Closing Date of the
project has been postponed twice. The new construction on the Mikindani-
Mingoyo section of the Mtwara-Mingoyo road was virtually completed in
December 1976. A more detailed investigation of pavement, subgrade and
material services is required before work can commence on repair, improve-
ment and resealing of the road from Mtwara to Mikindani. The Mara Better-
ment and Maintenance Unit has completed its work and except for a small
maintenance unit, the equipment and personnel have been sent to assist the
Geita unit. We have received one of the two pre-investment studies financed
under the project. Project completion is now estimated by the end of 1978.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$4 million worth of equipment, and-tenders for a further US$1.8
million worth have been approved. A contract for 634 man-months of
technical assistance has been signed and 18 of the 21 experts have commenced
1/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to December 31,
1978.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of14
their duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of
equipment and training of maintenance personnel is in hand.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and
Improvement Project: $15 million Credit of November 3,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.    The
credit is not yet effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project: $8.5
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3. 1974: Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Construction of all the sites and service areas has been completed
and the sites handed over, and upgrading works are nearing completion.
Overall progress and standards of work have been satisfactory. The take-up
rate of housing loans was initially poor, but the Government has now approved
more flexible lending criteria that are within the reach of the target popu-
lation and the situation is expected to improve. Lack of qualified personnel,
and shortcomings in the organization structure of the implementing unit have
led to difficulties in management of the project. Organizational changes
agreed for the Second National Sites and Services Project are aimed at
addressing these problems.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Closing Date -
June 30. 1982
The conditions of effectiveness for this project are presently
being addressed.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The project is expected to be commissioned in May 1980,(compared
to the original target date of October 1979),as a result of delays which
occurred during detailed design and exploratory works for construction of



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
the Mindu Dam. However, new arrangements proposed by the Bank for construc-
tion of works would still allow the project to match the water demand of the
industrial estate (Loan No. 1385-T-TA and Loan No. 1386-TA). Delays occurred
in recruiting the three senior advisors to be financed by the loan. Suitable
candidates have now been identified, but two of them will take up duty more
than three months behind schedule. Establishment of the urban water supply
unit in Morogoro is also delayed because of these problems. Discussions
are underway with the Government regarding the Bank's requirement that
water tariffs be adjusted periodically to maintain charges in line with
actual costs.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
Bids have been received for all major components and revised
cost estimates are 45% above the appraisal estimate. Regular consultants
and temporarily engaged consultants separately reviewed tenders received
for the contract (civil works in Mtera) where most of the overruns occurred.
They concluded that the project cost was underestimated and that the lowest
bid warranted negotiations with the bidders. Bank staff recommended that
TANESCO obtain alternative offers for the main civil works, after modifying
designs to reduce cost, revalue all the tenders on the basis of new offers
and open negotiationswith the final lowest bidder instead of rebidding.
These negotiations have now been completed, and all major construction
supply contracts have been awarded. The contract for the consulting
engineer in relation to supervision is being negotiated. Although total
foreign funds available would still cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements, a total financing gap of about $40 million remains. The
most important issue facing TANESCO is mobilizing adequate financial
resources. This is presently under discussion between the Government and
TANESCO.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project: $6.0
million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976
to December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All loan
funds are now committed. Some smaller project elements intended to be
financed under Loan 865-EA will have to be deleted. Cost overruns for
cargo handling equipment, tugs and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred,
and their credit has been increased accordingly from Can$26.0 million to
Can$33.5 million. Port labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where
general cargo throughput has declined considerably. General cargo through-
put has increased above appraisal forecasts. for Dar es Salaam, where the
three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have been completed and are being
used. Cargo handling productivity here has improved with increasing through-
put. The Closing Date of Loan 865-EA has been extended from June 30, 1977
to June 30, 1978.
Loan 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to political problems within the Community. In November 1974,
the Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted invest-
ments. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants
to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers
and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset
studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted
a report on decentralization of the railways. The Closing Date has been
extended to June 30, 1978.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Eight subprojects have so far been approved for a commitment of
$8.9 million against this Loan; one remaining project is under review.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
All major works other than microwave or UHF/VHF system
construction have now been completed despite initial delays caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the head-
quarters. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979.
The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
THIRD TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
1. Timetable of key events
(a) Time taken to prepare:            Not applicable
(b) Preparation by:                   Not applicable
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:    June 1976
(d)  First Bank mission:              June 1976
(e) Appraisal mission departure:      April 1977
(f)) Negotiations:                    October 1977
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness:   February 1978
2. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
3. Special Conditions
(a) TIB's debt to equity ratio would not be allowed to
exceed 3:1 (para 42).
(b) TIB would seek prior apptoval of all subprojects in excess
of $800,000 and aggregate approvals under the free limit
would not be in excess of $7 million (para 46).



