Report No. 1730-TA
Appraisal of the
Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB)
November 21, 1977
Eastern Africa Region
Industrial Development and Finance Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may nmt
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents /1
Currency Unit    =   Tsh
Tsh 1.00             US$0.12
US$1.00           =   Tsh 8.30
SDR 1.00         =   Tsh 9.66
Abbreviations
ADB     -    African Development Bank
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Authority
CFTC    -    Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
KfW     -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NBC     -    National Bank of Commerce
NDC     -    National Development Corporation
NIC     -    National Insurance Corporation
NORAD   -    Norwegian Agency for Development
SIDA    -    Swedish International Development Authority
TDFL    -    Tanganyika Development Finance Company Ltd.
TIB's Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30
/1   In October 1975 the Tanzanian Shilling was pegged to the value of the
Special Drawing Rights (SDR) of the IMF. The US dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is therefore subject to change.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK (TIB)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA ................................    ..............   i-iii
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........ . . .  ............... ..........  .* .    iv-vi
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................          ............ .... .   I
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT ........  ................... ................    I
The Economy . ...............................       ......... .    I
The Industrial Sector .....        .....................          3
The Financial Sector ........ . . .  ............................ .t.o.o.    7
III.   THE INSTITUTION ..........................................................   8
Ownership and Role .......... 8
Board and Management . ... . ... . . . . . . . . . .  ...........................    9
Organization and Staff .....................                     10
Procedures ..........................                            11
Investment and Financial Policies   ..                           12
Interest and Other Charges    .              .13
IV. OPERATION AND FINANCE ......  14
Operations......... * ...   14
Portfolio ...................  ...    15
Resources .. .16
Financial Situation ..........  ...00  .  0 17
Financial Results.                                               18
V. PROSPECTS                      ... ......18
TIB's Strategy                 ...18
Projected Operations              . . .19
Resource Requirements         ........... ..19
Financial Prospects              . . .20
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS..  21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEX NO.
1    Structure of Value Added and Employment in Large Scale
Manufacturing in Tanzania 1965-1973
2    Interest Rate Structure in Tanzania
3    Financial Institutions
4    TIB's Statement of Investment and Financial Policy
5    Board of Directors
6    Organization Chart
7    Summary of Foreign Lines of Credit
8    Summary of Operations 1971 - 1977
9    Analysis of Loans Approved as of June 30, 1977
10    Summary of Loan Portfolio as of June 30, 1977
11    Status of Problem Projects as of June 30, 1977
12    Summary of Equity Portfolio as of June 30, 1977
13    Income Statements (1972-1977)
14    Balance Sheets (1972-1977)
15    Pipeline of Projects as of June 30, 1977
16    Projection Assumptions
17    Forecast of Operations (1978-1982)
18    Projected Income Statements (1978-1982)
19    Projected Balance Sheets (1978-1982)
20    Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (1978-1982)
21    Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1972-1982)
22    Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
BASIC DATA
1.   Date of Establishment:  November   1970
2.   Ownership
Authorized capital                          Tsh200.0 million
Paid-up capital                             TshlOO.0 million
of which                              Amount             %
Government of Tanzania                 Tsh 60 million         60
National Bank of Commerce 1/                30                30
National Insurance Corporation 1/           10                10
100               100
3.   Resource Position (June 30, 1977) In Tsh Millions
Sources                             Domestic Funds         Foreign Funds
SIDA                                       -                   262.5
KfW                                       6.5                   70.8
CIDA                                       -                    18.3
NORAD                                      -                   148.8
FINLAND                                    -                     6.0
ADB                                        -                    43.6
IDA Credit No. 460-TA                      -                    45.9
IBRD Loan No. 1172-TA                      -                   123.7
Netherlands                                -                    18.9
Paid-in capital                        100.0                     -
Accumulated profits                      19.6
Depreciation & provisions                 6.3
Treasury Fund                            14.2                    -
Total                             146.5                   738.5
Uses
Disbursed commitments
Loans                                 54.4                   240.5
Equity Investments                    19.0                     7.7
Technical Assistance                    -                      1.3
Fixed Assets                           3.3                     -
Exchange Adjustment                     -                      5.8
76.7                  255.3
Available for disbursement              69.8                   483.2
Undisbursed commitments
Loans                                 17.0                    39.8
Equity                                 9.0                     2.7
Technical Assistance                    -                      1.0
26.0                   43.5
Available for commitment                43.8                   439.7
1/   100% Government-owned.



- ii -
4.   Summary of Operations and Finance
Year Ending June 30               1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Operations
Approvals (Tsh million)
Loans                           34.6      52.9    97.1   128.5   150.4    309.5
Equity Investments               1.2       0.4      7.2      0.7    10.6       3.8
Total                       35.8      53.3   104.3   129.2   161.0    313.3
Commitments (Tsh million)
Loans                             -       54.9    54.3   131.4   120.8        43.1
Equity Investments               1.2       0.4      5.2      0.7     0.6       3.8
Total                         1.2     55.3    59.5   132.1   144.7         46.9
Disbursements (Tsh million)
Loans                            9.1       9.6    39.0    70.3    77.6    142.1
Equity Investments               1.0       0.8      4.8     -        0.5        1.7
Total                       10.1       10.4    43.8    70.3    78.1    143.8
Finance                           1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Financial Results (Tsh'000)
Total Income                   7,988    7,506   8,484  13,807  22,705  29,365
Profit After tax               1,222    1,135   1,166   3,523   4,517   7,110
Profit After tax as
% of average net
worth                          2.4       1.9      1.7     3.0      2.5      2.9
Financial Situation (Tsh million)
Net Worth                       52.1      65.2    78.0   159.0   206.9   302.4
Total Assets                   134.5    142.2   155.9   265.1   336.6   474.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                1.6       1.2      1.3      0.6      0.6     0.5
5.   Interest Rate and Other Charges
Interest rate on loans:       Minimum of 10.0%.  Currently charging 11.0%.
Commitment charges:            1% p.a. on undisbursed balances.
Commission fee:                1% on approved loan amount.
Foreign Exchange risk:         Borne by the subborrowers.



- iii -
6.   Status of Bank Group Lines of Credit (October 31, 1977)
IDA Credit 460-TA
Date of effectiveness:                          April 18, 1974
Amount of Credit:                               $6 million
Authorized:                                     $6 million
Disbursed and outstanding:                      $4.7 million
Foreign Exchange risk:                          Borne by the sub-borrower
Terminal date of project submission:            December 31, 1977
Closing date for disbursements:                 June 30, 1978
Free Limit:                                     $100,000
Aggregate Free Limit:                           $1 million
IBRD Loan 1172-TA
Date of effectiveness:                          February 20, 1976
Amount of loan:                                 $15 million
Authorized:                                     $15 million
Disbursed and outstanding:                      $7.0 million
Foreign exchange risk:                          Borne by the sub-borrower
Terminal date for project submission:           December 31, 1977
Closing date for disbursement:                  December 31, 1980
Free Limit:                                     $400,000
Aggregate Free Limit:                           $3 million



- iv -
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Tanzania Investment Bank was established in 1970 to promote
economic development in Tanzania by providing medium- and long-term finance
and technical assistance to projects in various productive sectors. TIB has
so far received from the Bank Group an IDA credit of $6 million, which has
been fully committed, and a Bank loan of $15 million which is also fully
committed. TIB also administers an IDA Technical Assistance Credit of
$6 million to Tanzania for financing feasibility and pre-investment studies
in the industrial sector and the training of Tanzanian staff in key areas.
This report appraises TIB for a third line of credit of $15 million to assist
it in providing term finance to viable projects in productive sectors.
ii.       Tanzania, with a population of 14.8 million, has a rural economy
in which agriculture contributes about 40 percent of GDP. With a per capita
income of about $180, it is classified as one of the 25 least developed coun-
tries. The Tanzanian economy grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent
between 1967 and 1973, and the inflation rate averaged 4 percent per annum
over the same period. In 1974, as a result of drought and a dramatic import
price escalation this growth was arrested. The balance of payments went into
a deficit due to large grain imports and a stagnation in the production of
export crops. The resulting curtailment of imports led to a stagnation in
industrial production, while increased demand due to expansionary fiscal,
monetary and wage policies led to high inflation rates. With stringent
import controls, restraints on wages and on public and private consumption,
and better coffee prices, the situation has now improved. In 1976, GDP is
estimated to have grown at about 5% and the balance of payments moved back to
a surplus position. The inflation rate also declined to between 12 and 15
percent.
iii.      The industrial sector has undergone a fairly rapid change during
the last 15 years. Its contribution to GDP has increased from 5% to 10%,
and the level of employment has increased from 20,000 to 55,000 jobs. Pro-
duction of consumer goods for the domestic market still dominates but there
is a larger number of goods now being produced including some intermediate
goods. Following the Arusha declaration of 1967, control and ownership of
large industrial enterprises were transferred to parastatal corporations
which now account for 50% of manufacturing value added and employment. The
main problem affecting the industrial sector is low productivity which is
due to both macro and micro economic factors. While improvements at the
macro level will require time, at the micro level some measures have been
introduced recently on a limited scale in some enterprises which have led to
improvements in productivity. Future development of the sector will proceed
according to the Basic Industrial Strategy which aims at achieving structural
transformation of the sector and self-reliance by emphasizing the use of
domestic resources for domestic needs. To successfully implement this
strategy changes will have to be made in the macro policy framework. In
addition, the Government should, in the future, clarify what role the still
important private sector will play in industrial development in Tanzania;
this will also have implications for the growth of small-scale industries.



-v-
iv.       Tanzania has a fairly well-developed financial system consisting of
the Central Bank, a commercial bank, a housing bank, four development banks,
an insurance corporation and a provident fund organization, all publicly
owned. Of these only three institutions are active in savings mobilization.
This has been achieved more by extending the branch network than through the
interest rate structure. In Tanzania's command economy the role of interest
rate in mobilization and allocation of resources tends to be marginal. How-
ever, in view of the poor savings performance of the public sector, the Gov-
ernment is carrying out a study to determine the role interest rate could
play in mobilizing savings.
v.        TIB has a paid-in share capital of Tsh 100 million owned by the
Government (60%), the National Bank of Commerce (30%) and the National In-
surance Corporation (10%), all of which are represented on TIB Board. TIB's
management is competent and dynamic. The quality of TIB's professional staff
is good and TIB has a satisfactory staff development program. All of its
departments are headed by qualified Tanzanians. Eight expatriates funded
by several bilateral aid agencies are assisting TIB in areas where it does
not have local expertise.
vi.       TIB has grown into a well-organized institution with a reputation
for making sound investment decisions. Its operations have expanded rapidly
and net loan approvals have increased from 9 loans for Tsh 29 million in 1972
to 20 loans for Tsh 238 million in 1977. Its loans have gone to projects in
a broad range of economic sectors but the main beneficiaries are the projects
in manufacturing and agro-processing sectors. TIB has taken care in project
selection to ensure that only projects having a high economic rate of return
qualify for its assistance. TIB projects approved during the two years ended
March 31, 1977 had forecast economic rates of return of about 36% and an
average forecast investment cost per job created of about $12,000.
vii.      As of June 30, 1977, about 39% of TIB's portfolio was affected
by arrears of over three months; about 50% of the amount was outstanding in
projects under implementation and only 6 projects, accounting for about 14%
of the portfolio, were having moderate to serious problems.
viii.     In view of its reputation as an efficient resource allocator, TIB
has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources from seven
donors so far. These include grants of Tsh 183 million which have enabled
TIB to expand its equity base to Tsh 302 million. Consequently, TIB's
long-term debt equity ratio was only 0.5:1 as at the end of June 1977.
Again, because of its large equity base, TIB's return on average net worth
was also low at 2.9%. TIB's financial position is sound.
ix. TIB's projected resource requirements covering the period July 1977 to
December 1980 amount to Tsh 293 million in local currency and Tsh 608 million
in foreign currency. TIB's internal cash generation, loan collections
and a new loan from the Treasury will be adequate to meet its local currency



- vi -
requirements. TIB's presently uncommitted foreign resources amount to Tsh
/4-. .t' 7.U1  ~3~lLiag    '¢a projected foreign resource gap of Tsh 168 million.
TIB proposes to finance this gap with a Bank loan of $15 million and future
bilateral support of $5 million. As most of the existing resources are
>able for financing manufacturing enterprises only, TIB needs Bank funds
at this stage to have operational flexibility to finance projects in other
sectors also.
x.        TIB is a well organized and competently managed institution which
plays a useful role in the economic development of Tanzania through its
financing of projects in productive sectors, and through its financing of
suitable technical assistance needs and plant rehabiliation studies submitted
by parastatal enterprises. It needs additional foreign resources to meet
the reasonable lending targets it has set for itself in accordance with the
Government's Basic Industrial Strategy and the Third Five Year Development
Plan. While there are no major institutional risks involved in lending to
TIB, the general problem of low productivity in the industrial sector affects
TIB financed projects also. This is, however, a general sectoral problem
which is being addressed by Government in that context. Moreover, TIB's
present equity base is large enough to protect it against possible portfolio
losses in the near future. TIB is creditworthy for continued Bank Group
lending and a loan of $15.0 million is recommended.
xi.       The proposed loan would finance 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
goods and services, 65% of the invoice price of locally produced goods pre-
viously imported into Tanzania, and 40% of civil construction costs. It
would be repaid according to a flexible amortization schedule conforming
to the aggregate amortization schedules of TIB subloans, which will have a
maximum maturity of 15 years including appropriate grace periods. TIB would
need Bank approval for subloans involving $800,000 or more out of the Bank
loan and will not be able to use more than $7 million in total without the
Bank's approval.
xii.      TIB will on-lend the proceeds of the proposed loan at its current
*nterest rate of 11%, with the foreign exchange risk being borne by the
sub-borrower.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) was established in 1970 to
promote economic development in Tanzania by providing long- and medium-term
finance and technical assistance to projects, and by administering, on behalf
of the Government, special funds for industrial development. TIB requested
Bank Group assistance soon after its establishment, and was granted an IDA
credit of $6 million in February 1974; this credit is fully committed. As
of October 31, 1977, $4.7 million was disbursed and outstanding. A Bank
loan of $15 million, approved for TIB in November 1975, is also fully com-
mitted. TIB also administers a $6.0 million IDA Technical Assistance credit
approved for Tanzania in November 1975 to finance feasibility and pre-invest-
ment studies in the industrial sector. This report appraises TIB for a third
Bank Group line of credit of $15 million (second Bank loan).
1.02      In addition to receiving financial assistance from the Bank Group,
TIB has benefitted from technical assistance for improving its procedures and
project selection, and has developed into a strong and well regarded develop-
ment financing institution in Tanzania.  The objective of the proposed third
Bank Group line of credit is to continue providing part of TIB's foreign
exchange requirements for its growing operations, and to maintain the tech-
nical assistance relationship which has proved so useful in strengthening  U'
as an intermediary.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission,
consisting of Messrs. Zia Ahmed, Tei Mante, and Ismail Dalla, which visited
Tanzania in March-April 1977.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
The Economy
2
2.01      Tanzania, with a total area of approximately 945,000 km , has a
population of 14.8 million, which is growing at about 2.8 percent per year.
About 93% of the population lives in rural areas and 90% of the labor force
is engaged in agriculture and related activities, which constitute the
largest single sector in the economy. Over 40% of the GDP is derived from
the agricultural sector, of which one-half constitutes subsistence produc-
tion. Agricultural exports consist mainly of cotton, coffee, cashewnuts
and sisal and account for 80% of total exports. With a per capita GNP of
only $180, Tanzania is classified as one of the 25 least developed coun-
tries.



-2-
2.02      The Tanzanian economy performed modestly between 1967 and 1973; an
average annual growth in GDP of 4.5 percent led to an average increase in per
capita output of about 1.8 percent per year. Domestic savings were impressive,
reaching a level of 18 percent of GDP, while gross investment was sustained
at about 20-25 percent of GDP. However, since a high proportion of these
investments went into infrastructure and social service projects, the growth
rate of GDP was not commensurate with the investment effort. Output in the
agricultural and other productive sectors grew slowly during this period and
the export sector performed disappointingly. Tanzania's balance of payments
position, however, continued to be satisfactory due to capital flows from
bilateral sources on soft terms. This modest economic performance was
seriously affected in 1974 when an economic crisis, brought about by drought
conditions and a dramatic import price escalation, set in. Tanzania had to
resort to large grain imports on commercial terms at the same time that the
drought was severely affecting the production of the main export crops. The
balance of payments moved from a surplus situation to a deficit of about $140
million and severe import shortages resulted, leading to a stagnation of
industrial production. While production declined, domestic demand increased
rapidly due to expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies, resulting in
severe pressures on the domestic price level.
2.03      The economy is still recovering from the crisis of 1974.  A hard-
measured response from the Government, involving reallocation of investment
into directly productive sectors (agriculture, manufacturing and mining),
stringent import controls, and restraints on wages and on public and private
consumption, has led to some improvement. Agricultural production increased
by about 6.6% in 1975 compared to a decline of about 3% in 1974, while GDP grew
by about 4.6% in 1975 compared to only 2.2% in 1974. Preliminary estimates
for 1976 indicate that agricultural production increased by 4.7% and GDP grew
by about 5.2%. The inflation rate, which had risen rapidly from an annual
average of about 4% between 1967 and 1973 to 20% in 1974 and 26% in 1975, is
estimated to have declined to between 12% and 15% in 1976; indications are
that the rate will decline further in 1977. The GDP Deflator is projected to
increase by 10% in 1977, 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979 and 7% thereafter. The
balance of payments situation also improved considerably in 1976 from deficits
of about $140 million and $73 million in 1974 and 1975 respectively to an
estimated surplus of about $35 million in 1976. This was due largely to a
strong export performance, especially for cotton and coffee, a substantially
reduced need for food imports and tight restrictions on all other categories
of imports.
2.04      With this improved economic situation, the Government will launch
later this year its Third Five Year Development Plan (1977-81) which sets
out its strategy for development of the economy in the medium term. The
implementation of the plan, originally scheduled to commence in 1975, was
postponed due to the crisis. It is expected that the basic objectives of
social equality, self-reliance, eradication of absolute poverty and economic
and social transformation will be reaffirmed and that the development strategy
will continue to emphasize rural development, social ownership of the prin-
cipal means of production, and full participation of all regions and popula-
tion groups in the development process. Preliminary targets set by the
economic planners include an average annual growth in GDP of 6%, and planned



-3-
increase of the contribution of industry and mining from the present 12.5% to
about 14.5% by the end of the plan period.
The Industrial Sector I/
2.05      Structure.  Tanzania's industrial sector has undergone a fairly
rapid change from the rudimentary structure inherited at independence in 1961
when the largest single manufacturing subsector was cotton ginning and there
was no factory production of textiles, shoes, cement or cigarettes. In the
early days, sugar and beer were produced on a small scale, the only export
industries were canned meat and wattle extract, and there were numerous Asian-
owned small establishments producing clothing, bread, bricks, footwear, and
the like. Total manufacturing employment was about 20,000 and manufacturing
and handicrafts contributed less than 5% of GDP. By 1971 the contribution
of the sector to GDP had increased to 10% and there were about 55,000 jobs
in manufacturing. The subsectoral structure has also undergone substantial
change. Although production of consumer goods for the domestic market still
dominates, a larger number of goods are now produced, including basic food
and non-food consumer goods (e.g., meat and dairy products, edible oil mill-
ing, textiles, tobacco), intermediate goods (sawmilling and plywood, tanneries
and leather, aluminum rerolling), and capital goods (vehicle assembly). Annex 1
shows the changed structure of output in the manufacturing sector between
1965 and 1973. 2/ The relative share of non-food consumer, intermediate and
capital goods in value added increased substantially at the expense of the
share of food and food products. Another significant change in the structure
of the sector has been the increased role of the public sector. Following the
Arusha declaration of 1967, the Government systematically transferred the
control and ownership of the large private and foreign owned industrial
enterprises to parastatals. By 1974, the public sector accounted for about
50% of manufacturing value-added and of employment. Presently 4 ministries
control 17 holding companies which have a total of 97 subsidiaries in various
productive sectors (including 9 operating companies in which the Government
holds 50% or less shares).
2.06      Performance and Problems.  Reflecting the structural changes of
the sector, the aggregate manufacturing production grew rapidly between the
mid-60's and the onset of the economic crisis in 1974. The average annual
real growth of the manufacturing sector was 7.8% between 1964-75 compared
to an average growth rate of 4.8% of total GDP. The absolute amount of
investment in manufacturing in real terms increased until 1971, and began
to decline thereafter. Although this catalogue of increasing output and
1/   For a more detailed analysis of the structure, performance, problems,
and prospects of Tanzania's industrial sector, see the Bank's report:
"Tanzania Industrial and Mining Sector Survey" No. 647-TA, March 31,
1975. The forthcoming "Tanzania Basic Economic Report: Annex V"
also has an extensive discussion of the industrial sector.
2/   More recent information is not available.



-4-
investment would seem to indicate satisfactory industrial performance, an
analysis of the performance of manufacturing in Tanzania indicates that
prociucLL  Lj i{as beeni ow and output has been far less than warranted by
the level of investment.
L.Ji      The problems underlying suboptimal performance in the sector are
many and varied, and include both macro and micro economic factors. At the
macro level, the Government is yet to develop the administrative capability
to monitor and coordinate the operations of the control systems which were
instituted in concomitance with the increased public ownership of manufac-
turing enterprises. Important components of this control system include
centralized decision-making on investments, detailed allocations of foreign
exchange through import licensing, an extensive regime of price controls and
rules of procedure operated by the National Pricing Commission (NPC) 1/ and
wage-setting by the Permanent Labor Tribunal and the Government. These
controls have largely insulated the enterprises from the discipline of market
forces. At the micro level two sets of problems operate. First, performance
indicators consistent with the macro control systems and clear guidelines for
evaluating performance are still lacking. Managers and workers, therefore,
have virtually no motivating incentives or disincentives in Tanzania. Second,
there is a scarcity of trained managerial personnel and skilled labor, and
most enterprises have to live with periodic shortages of key inputs.
2.08      The Government has been well aware of all these problems which have
been raised in many Bank reports on Tanzania industry, and considerable dis-
cussion has taken place among Tanzanian economic and enterprise managers on
possible solutions. The Bank Group has participated in these discussions
within the context of both its general economic work in Tanzania, and of
specific projects in the industrial sector, and raised these issues again
during the review of the Basic Economic Report this fall. While decisions
on any major policy changes dealing with the incentive system for workers and
managers 2!, parastatal organizations, Government control of parastatals, and
the price and import control systems will take time because of the importance
and breadth of the issues, there are already indications that at the firm
level a number of improvements have been made. These include some cases of
-tar: r1trenchment in overmanned parastatals, an eight percent limit on
allow,,1le increases in overhead costs of manufacturing firms which approach
the National Price Commission for price increases and the hiring of a foreign
consultant group to advise on operational/managerial improvements for the
1/   NPC controls the prices of more than 1,000 commodities from ex-factory
to the retail level. In principle the gross profit margin as a per-
centage of capital employed is supposed to be used to set ex-factory
prices. In practice, however, the gross profit margin as a percentage
of operating costs is used for the purpose. The margin on costs per-
mitted to most manufacturers is between 10-20%.
2/   Presently a study dealing with productivity incentives for managers is
under preparation in the Ministry of Industries.



subsidiaries and associate firms of the National Development Corporation
(NDC), the largest parastatal holding company. As a result of these effi-
ciency studies, NDC has been able to improve the operations of some of its
subsidiaries by correcting known problems in management, maintenance, in-
ventory control, excess receivables, unbalanced process lines, and worker
skills. This approach could be repeated with success in other parastatals;
in fact the more active among them are already contemplating approaching
TIB for assistance under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit. Furthermore,
TIB on its own initiative has asked the Bank for assistance in locating one
or more experts to study the operations of major Tanzanian enterprises and
to lay down production norms in the light of social and technical condi-
tions in the country.
2.09      Prospects and Issues.  Future development of the sector will be
based on the Basic Industrial Strategy (BIS) adopted in 1974 by the Govern-
ment, and expected to be reaffirmed under the Third Five Year Plan. The two
main goals of this strategy are structural transformation and self-reliance.
The strategy, in its pure form, emphasizes the use of domestic resources for
domestic needs. This involves giving top priority in investment allocations
to industries supplying basic needs of food, shelter, health, education and
transport, and to producer goods which contribute to production of a wide
range of industrial products. At the heart of the strategy is the metals
engineering sector because of its potential as a base for a wide range of
industrial skills. This pure version has subsequently been modified to
permit expansion of export-oriented production, especially that based on
domestic raw materials (namely, cashew processing, sisal spinning, textile
manufacture, and meat and leather processing.) The Government is also
seeking a stronger export orientation for the existing resource based indus-
tries such as textiles and wood products. A better export performance from
the existing industries would, however, require improvements in factor
productivity and in the institutional and price policy framework for manufac-
tured exports, including export subsidies or other price inducements. The
potential problems with this strategy are that attempts to restructure the
economy too quickly during a period of resource stringency may ultimately
frustrate both growth and structural change. A too rapid expansion of the
metals sector (especially steel production) may lead to more reliance on
external finance, knowhow and markets, and the massive investment coordination
required by the strategy may overburden the country's already weak planning
capacity. Moreover, effective implementation of the strategy will require
specific changes in the macro policy framework towards a protection and
tariff structure which does not discriminate against backward linkage import
substitution, discourage domestic production of capital good, nor confer high
and widely varying effective rates of protection to the production of con-
sumer goods.
2.10      In addition to the need for these macro policy changes two important
issues which will need to be addressed during implementation of the strategy
are the role of the private sector and the development of small-scale in-
dustry. Notwithstanding the dominant role of the public sector, the share



-6-
of the private sector in manufacturing, particularly of small enterprises,
is still significant. It presently accounts for 50% of value-added and of
employment. Of the 500 registered factories employing 10 or more workers,
about 430 are privately owned; these include a few relatively large estab-
lishments such as a Danish Sugar factory and a glassware factory. The
private sector still has vast potential and, given the necessary encourage-
ment, could contribute substantially to Tanzania's economic development. The
Government does not presently have the financial, technical, and managerial
resources to extend its control over the full range of manufacturing activ-
ity.
2.11      The question of development of small-scale industries is related to
that of the prospective role of the private sector. Whereas the Government
has recently taken a number of measures to foster the development of small-
scale industries, a clear well-publicized statement of the opportunities and
facilities available could go a long way in attracting investment in this
sector. 1/ This would require both the political will and the strengthening
of the institutional set up. The Small Industries Development Organization
(SIDO), set up in 1973 as a parastatal organization under the Ministry of
Industries, has primary responsibility for planning small-scale industries
and coordinating the development effort in this area. While SIDO has an
ambitious national program to assist small-scale industry and is planning to
set up a few industrial estates and training-cum-production centers, its
capacity to implement these projects is limited. Bilateral aid agencies like
SIDA and KfW have provided financial and technical assistance to SIDO, and
IDA has recently approved an urban project having a component for small-scale
industries which will be on-lent through SIDO. In order to coordinate the
efforts in the districts and regions to foster industrial development at the
local level a committee consisting of representatives of SIDO, TIB, TRDB and
NBC has been established with responsibility for examining the development
strategy and exchanging information on matters of common interest.
2.12      The Third Five Year Plan (FY 77-81) envisages an investment program
of about Tsh 23 billion, of which about 21 percent will go to manufacturing.
Projects earmarked for development/implementation under the plan are mainly
based on Tanzania's domestic resources. Among the sizeable projects currently
under implementation are an export-oriented industrial complex at Morogoro
involving an industrial estate, a canvas mill, a tannery, a shoe factory, and
a leather goods factory, partly financed by the World Bank. Other major proj-
ects under implementation, which are beneficiaries of World Bank financing,
are a cashew processing project and a textile mill. The National Development
Corporation (NDC), which is the largest parastatal holding company, operating
in a number of sectors, is presently implementing five other major projects,
namely, another tannery, a bicycle plant, a farm implements factory, a deter-
gents factory, and a pharmaceutical plant. A pulp and paper mill project
involving an investment of over $200 million is at an advanced stage of
investigation. The total investment in these projects is estimated at over
Tsh 2,640 million.
1/   In a recent statement President Nyerere emphasized the importance of
the private sector in small scale industry development.



-7-
2.13      Industrial Consultancy.  In order to improve facilities for indus-
trial studies and consultancy in Tanzania and to coordinate the work relating
to employment of foreign consultants for preparation of pre-investment and
feasibility studies, the Government established the Tanzanian Industrial Studies
and Consultancy Organization (TISCO) in 1976. SIDA has provided Tsh 10.8 mil-
lion for recruitment of consultants and for retaining the services of some of
the UNIDO appointed experts who were working for Indcenter (TISCO's predecessor
which confined its activities to preparation of feasibility studies). TISCO
proposes to appoint 13 foreign experts and 2 Tanzanians during 1977. While
in terms of the law establishing TISCO, all requests from Tanzanian individ-
uals or institutions for industrial studies or consultancy should first be
submitted to TISCO, the latter's Board proposes to follow a flexible and
pragmatic policy by allowing TIB's Feasibility Studies Unit (para. 3.08) to
operate independently in selection of industrial consultants and advisors.
In view of the non-availability of Tanzanian experts in various industrial
disciplines in the foreseeable future, TISCO will have to depend largely on
expatriates for carrying out its tasks.
The Financial Sector
2.14      In terms of appropriate institutions, Tanzania's financial system
is relatively well developed. In addition to the central bank (Bank of
Tanzania), which is responsible for overall monetary policy, and TIB,
there are eight other financial institutions. Annex 3 provides a summary of
the activities of these institutions, which include a state-owned commercial
bank, a state-owned insurance corporation, a national provident fund, three
development banks (two dealing with the modern sectors of manufacturing,
transport, etc., and one with rural development) and two other state-owned
specialized institutions (a savings bank and a housing bank). Of these the
commercial, savings, and housing banks are authorized to mobilize savings
directly from the public through deposit accounts. The two development
banks, dealing with the modern sectors of manufacturing, agrobusiness,
tourism, transport, etc., and whose functions partly overlap those of TIB,
are (i) the East African Development Bank (EADB), an East African Community
corporation whose majority shares are held by the governments of Kenya,
Tanzania, and Uganda and (ii) the Tanganyika Development Finance Co. Ltd.
(TDFL). EADB's charter does not allow it to make more than 38.75% of its
investments in Tanzania; its impact, therefore, is limited. TDFL is jointly
owned by TIB and the bilateral aid agencies of the UK, West Germany, and the
Netherlands in equal amounts. TDFL has been particularly active in the past
in financing private enterprises and in making equity investments but is now
also financing parastatal enterprises. The Government perceives TDFL's role
as complementary to that of TIB. TDFL's shareholders have been providing it
with resources in the form of subscription to its income notes. In keeping
with the socialist orientation of Government policy, Tanzania has no active
private capital market and the bulk of equity investments is provided by the
Government directly through the budgetary process. Overall, the respective
roles and functions of the financial institutions are clearly defined and
there is no costly duplication of effort.



2.15      In spite of this fairly well developed institutional framework,
the impact of the financial sector on domestic resource mobilization and
allocation has not been as substantial as it could have been. The decline in
domestic savings after 1971 from the impressive level of 18% of GDP, coupled
Wi th the ambitious investment targets of the Third Five Year Plan has prodded
Tanzania's economic managers to attempt to come up with a policy for reviving
domestic savings. The Bank's Basic Economic Report 1/ concludes that, while
interest rates will remain less important in resource allocation in Tanzania's
command economy than in less controlled economies, because of the centralized
decision making on investments, they could still play a role on the mobiliza-
tion side. With Government now a dissaver, the parastatal sector will remain
the major saving entity in the economy, and hence will bear primary responsi-
bility for rebuilding savings. For maximum results, however, the private
sector will also need to be tapped. The recommended role for a more active
interest rate policy is thus to stimulate monetary savings from these sectors.
Specifically, on private savings it is felt that the existing interest
rates on savings deposits, which vary according to term between 4% and 6.5%,
are on the low side, considering the substantial increases in inflation rates
in the recent past (para. 2.03). Therefore, while there is no empirical
basis for judging what the exact response to more attractive interest rates
on bank deposits might be, a case could be made for increasing deposit rates.
On parastatal savings, the evidence shows that the financial parastatals are
better savers than many manufacturing and commercial parastatals. There
appears to be a good case, therefore, for enabling the former to generate more
surpluses at the expense of the latter by increasing the former's lending
rates. The Bank's position on these issues has been discussed with the
Government during the review of the Basic Economic Report as an economy-wide
issue affecting all financial institutions.
III. THE INSTITUTION
Ownership and Role
3.0J.     TIB is wholly owned by the Tanzanian Government.  It has an autho-
rized capital of Tsh 200 million, of which Tsh 100 million was paid-in as of
June 30, 1977. The Government holds 60% of the issued capital, the National
Ban! of Commerce 30%, and the National Insurance Corporation 10%. Both NBC
and NIC are wholly owned by the Government.
3.02      Within the institutional framework of Tanzania, TIB's main role
has been to provide financing to projects in the directly productive sectors
in the form of medium- and long-term loans; this is because almost all size-
able projects are promoted and implemented by the various parastatals and
1/   Which is expected to be issued in early 1978.



- 9 -
equity financing is provided directly by the Treasury through the budgetary
process. To finance its lending operations TIB obtains long-term domestic
and foreign loans and grants from the Government, international lending
agencies, and bilateral donors. Through its independent appraisal and
investment decision-making process, TIB has provided an independent check on
the financial, technical and economic feasibility of parastatal investments
which come to it for financing, thereby exerting a useful influence on the
quality of resource allocation in Tanzania. Having built up a good reputa-
tion as a well-organized and professional institution it is gradually extend-
ing its activities from this basic role of loan financing to include inten-
sive project identification and promotion. It is also working in conjunction
with NBC, TRDB and the Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO) in
drawing up a strategy for the development of small industries. In addition
to this increased involvement in project identification and promotion, TIB is
devoting increasing attention to the operational problems of existing pro-
jects. Its role here has been to use its influence as a major financier of
projects to get the parastatal holding companies to undertake efficiency
studies which would help improve the productivity of their manufacturing
subsidiaries. It stands ready to finance such studies from the IDA Technical
Assistance Credit. TIB's involvement in these newer types of activities is
appropriate and reflects its growing maturity as an institution.
Board and Management
3.03      TIB's Board consists of nine members, including the Chairman, who
is also the Managing Director. The Chairman is appointed by the President.
Five members are nominated by the Minister of Finance, two by the National
Bank of Commerce and one by the National Insurance Corporation. The majority
of the members (Annex 5) are high level officials involved with the management
of various aspects of the Tanzanian economy. The Board is quite independent
in its deliberations, and fairly critical in examining investment proposals.
It also takes decisions on all policy matters affecting TIB operations.
3.04      TIB's management is of good quality.  It consists of a Managing
Director and a General Manager. TIB's present Managing Director has occupied
that position since September 1972, and is very dynamic, influential, and
dedicated. He is a director of several important parastatals, as well as
of the Tanganyika Development Finance Co., Ltd. As the Chief Executive he
concentrates on policy matters and external relations, and has also evolved
an excellent management information system which keeps him informed on all
important developments in TIB. He is assisted by a General Manager who is
responsible for TIB's day-to-day management. The present incumbent is a
former General Manager of the National Bank of Commerce and has been TIB's
General Manager since June 1976.



- 10 -
3.05      TIB's management is assisted by four committees:  Loan Committee,
Management Committee, Staff Appointment Committee and Housing Allocation
Committee. All these committees, except the Loan Committee, are chaired by
the General Manager and include all Department Directors. The Loan Com-
mittee (which is chaired by the Managing Director) meets weekly and dis-
cusses financing proposals submitted by the Operations and the Planning and
Development Departments. No financing proposal is put up to the Board with-
out the clearance of the Loan Committee.
Organization and Staff
3.06      Annex 6 shows TIB's Organization Chart, as of March 31, 1977,
indicating the departmental set-up and the professional staff in each depart-
ment and unit. TIB has four departments: Operations, Planning and Develop-
ment, Finance, and Secretary's and Administration. In addition, TIB has set
up a unit for Internal Audit. All these departments and the Internal Audit
unit are headed by qualified Tanzanians.
3.07      As of March 31, 1977, TIB had a professional staff of 41, of whom
8 were expatriates. Six expatriates were recruited under the technical
assistance programs funded by UNDP, SIDA, CIDA, CFTC and West Germany, and
two other expatriates are the nominees of Tata Consulting Engineers (India)
who are manning the Feasibility Study Unit. TIB has made good use of the
expatriate staff in training Tanzanians. It will continue to use expatriates
in the future in areas where it lacks Tanzanian expertise, particularly in
technical appraisal of projects. Two expatriate industrial engineers, who
complete their assignments shortly, will be replaced. Two additional indus-
trial engineers, a food technologist, a wood technologist and an agronomist
are proposed to be recruited under technical assistance programs funded by
West Germany, SIDA, CIDA and Norway. There is an acute shortage of engineers
in Tanzania and TIB has so far been successful in appointing only one qualified
Tanzanian engineer. However, the country's High Level Manpower Allocation
Committee has started posting science-oriented graduates to TIB which plans to
award them fellowships for undertaking engineering studies abroad.
3.08      The Operations Department has three divisions:  Appraisal, Follow-
Up and Feasibility Unit. It has a staff of 19 professionals, including 5
expatriates. TIB's appraisal capability has consistently improved over the
past few years and is considered satisfactory. The Follow-Up Division has
made considerable progress during the last two years and keeps an up-to-date
record of each project financed by TIB. It proposes to use the facilities
offered by the Feasibility Unit to carry out efficiency studies, training of
key personnel and overall improvement of problem projects in the portfolio.
The Feasibility. Studies Unit was established primarily to administer the
$6.0 million IDA Technical Assistance Credit to Tanzania for undertaking
feasibility and preinvestment studies. The Unit prepares terms of reference
for consultants proposed to be engaged by Tanzanian institutions and is
equipped to evaluate the feasibility studies prepared by consultants, and to
assist in providing training to the staff of parastatals.



- 11 -
It is manned by four professionals, two of whom are experts from Tata Con-
sulting Engineers of India, the consulting firm selected by TIB and the
Government in accordance with the requirements of the IDA credit. The Unit
has not been in existence long enough to permit a meaningful assessment of
its work. Its potential usefulness to TIB is, however, considerable.
3.09      The Planning and Development Department has two divisions:  Project
Identification and Project Promotion.  It has a staff of eight professionals
of whom two are expatriates.  Although the basic role of the department is to
identify and promote projects, it also analyzes broader economic issues re-
lating to overall industrial and agricultural development. The department's
main achievement so far has been to promote four projects which have been
financed by TIB. It has about seven more projects under study which could
become workable. For the department to be fully effective it needs to main-
tain close relationships with the various parastatals which have ultimate
responsiblity for managing projects.
3.10      The Finance Department is responsible for financial planning and
control, preparation of financial reports for both internal and external use,
and disbursement and collection of loans and equity investments. It has
three divisions: Accounts, Controllers and Disbursements, manned by nine
profesionals of whom one is an expatriate.
3.11      The Internal Auditing Department which has been functioning since
1974 is run by a qualified accountant, who reports directly to the General
Manager. The independent checking which the department has provided has been
quite useful, and has been partly instrumental in strengthening the account-
ing records, and in improving cash flow management. In future the department
would also be usefully deployed in strengthening operations, especially follow-
up on past investment.
3.12      The Administration Department is responsible for administering legal
matters, the Board Secretariat, Personnel Management, and General Services.
It has performed these functions satisfactorily.
3.13      Staff Development.  TIB has been particularly successful at develop-
ing its professional staff because of its very good training program. This
training program includes an initial training period of about a year of
rotation in all departments in TIB, and a project appraisal course at the
Institute of Finance Management in Dar-es-Salaam. After spending a year with
a specific department following this initial orientation, professional staff
members are generally sent abroad to one of the many training outlets,
namely, Arthur D. Little Institute in Massachusetts, the Institute of Social
Science in the Hague, EDI, and some well-known development finance companies.
This development program has enabled TIB to recruit all of its key middle
management personnel from within.



- 12 -
Procedures
3.14      Procurement and Disbursement.  TIB's procurement procedures require
competitive quotations for all items costing Tsh 100,000 (US$12,000) or more.
The procedures also require that TIB be consulted before contracts for goods
or services to be financed by TIB are awarded. TIB's procurement and dis-
bursement procedures are satisfactory.
3.15      Legal.  TIB's legal work is performed by the Tanzania Legal Cor-
poration, a Government legal services agency which parastatal organizations
are required to use. TIB's standard loan agreement is satisfactory, and the
services provided by the legal corporation have been timely and satisfactory.
As a result, TIB is able to commit most of its loans within two months of
approval.
3.16      Audit.  By statute, TIB's accounts must be audited by the Tanzania
Audit Corporation (TAC), which is owned by the Government. TIB's FY77
audit was thorough, and met the general requirements of the Bank Group for
DFCs.
Investment and Financial Policies
3.17      TIB's Statement of Investment and Financial Policy is provided as
Annex 4. The statement is comprehensive and sets appropriate guidelines and
limits for TIB's operations. Important provisions are the following:
(a) TIB will only finance projects which are technically and
financially viable, economically justified, and which
are consistent with national priorities as set out in the
national development plans.
(b) TIB's minimum commitment is set at Tsh 100,000 (US$12,000).
The maximum financial commitment in any project is set at
75% of the project's total capital cost so long as it does
not exceed 20% of TIB's net worth (now Tsh 302 million).
In addition, TIB's total commitments in equity investments
should not exceed its own net worth.
i() TIB should under no circumstances assume the exchange risk
on its foreign borrowings.
3.18      Since the policy statement does not set a debt equity limit on
TIB's capital structure, the Bank has agreed with TIB on a limit of 3:1.
Because of a large equity base, however, TIB has not reached this limit,
and our projections show that it will not reach it within the next five
years.



- 13 -
Interest and Other Charges
3.19      It is TIB's policy to charge interest rates which substantially
reflect the cost of capital in Tanzania. In its Policy Statement a normal
minimum of 10% p.a. is set, although it increased its lending rate to
11% p.a. about two years ago. In addition, TIB charges a commitment fee of
1.0% per annum on committed but undisbursed loan balances, and a one-time
commission of 1.0% on the loan amount. It passes on the foreign exchange
risk on its foreign borrowings to the subborrowers.
3.20      TIB's lending rates are among the highest in Tanzania (see Annex 2),
and although they have not been positive in real terms in the past three
years, given Tanzania's experience with inflation, they have been sufficient
to provide TIB with a reasonable spread; TIB's spread has increased from 2.7%
in 1972 to 5.2% in 1977. Considering that the inflation rate is expected to
decline in Tanzania to about 10% in 1977, we consider the present lending
rate of 11% to be adequate. Understandings were reached with the Tanzanian
delegation at the negotiations that TIB will continue to charge this rate on
all its sub-loans.



- 14 -
IV. OPERATION AND FiNANCE
Operations
4.01      A summary of TIB's operations since its inception through
June 30, 1977 is provided in Annex 8. TIB had approved (net of cancel-
lations) 106 loans for a total of Tsh 677.5 million, of which 5 loans amount-
ing to Tsh 47.6 million were on an agency 1/ basis. Excluding its investment
in shares and income notes of the Tanzania Development Finance Company Ltd.
(TDFL), it had approved 12 equity investments for Tsh 13.5 million. This
comparatively low level of equity investments is a reflection of both the
ready availability of equity funds for projects from the Treasury and TIB's
decision not to tie up too much of its resources in that relatively illiquid
type of financial commitment. The growth in loan approvals has been fairly
rapid, considering that annual approvals have increased from 9 loans for Tsh
29 million in 1972 to 20 loans for Tsh 238 million in 1977. TIB's loan
commitments and disbursements have kept pace with the increase in approvals.
As of June 30, 1977, as much as 77% in number and 60% in amount of total net
approvals has been committed, whilst 86% of the amount committed had been
disbursed. It is expected that with TIB's improved loan administration and
supervision capability, the pace of commitment and disbursement would be
further improved.
4.02      Annex 9 shows an analysis of TIB's lending operations since its
inception by size, terms and sub-sector.  A majority of the loans (77% in
numbers) have been for Tsh 7.6 million ($905,000) or less, but 17 loans for
Tsh 10.0 million ($1.2 million) or more account for 53% of approvals by
amount. Most loans have maturities between five and ten years (62% by
amount). Over 90% of the loans carry an interest rate of 8.5% or more,
with an average rate of 10.2%.  The loan recipients operate in a wide variety
of sectors, reflecting the broad range of economic sectors TIB is assisting.
Manufacturing and processing activities have been the largest recipients;
food processing activities such as sugar, cashewnuc and fish processing
have been the main beneficiaries, accounting for 21% (in amount) of loans
approved. Other important beneficiaries have been tourist development
projects (hotels), textiles, chemical and rubber processing activities, the
transport sector and the metals and non-metallic mi.nerals subsectors. TIB's
projects are located mainly in urban areas, with the largest concentration
in the capital city of Dar es Salaam.  Although no comprehensive post-invest-
ment assessment has as yet been made of their economic impact, their poten-
tial economic benefits determined at the time of appraisal were generally
satisfactory.  For example, projects approved during the two years ending
March 31, 1977 had a high forecast average economic rate of return of about
1/   TIB administers, on behalf of the Gcvernment, agency funds for financing
projects selected by the Government and on whlich the Government assumes
credit risk; TIB receives a management fee of 3/4% per quarter on the
outstanding balance.



- 15 -
36%, and a forecast average investment cost per direct job created of $12,186.
The projected average financial return was also quite high at about 21%. TIB
financed five sub-projects under the IDA Credit. The average amount of
these sub-loans was Tsh 10 million and the average repayment period 8 years.
These sub-projects involve leather tanning, textiles, farming and marketing
of navy beans, cashewnut processing and detergent manufacture. One of these
sub-projects is in operation and four are still under implementation. Of
those in operation, the navy bean sub-project has production and marketing
problems and receives intensive supervision from TIB. Under the second line
of credit (a Bank loan), TIB had, as of October 31,1977, financed 14 sub-
projects of which 9 are still under implementation. These sub-projects
involve agro-processing, leather tanning, textiles, steel rerolling and
fabrication of automotive bodies and spare parts.
Portfolio
4.03      TIB's loan portfolio of Tsh 295 million, as of June 30, 1977,
was outstanding in 58 projects owned mostly by various parastatal organiza-
tions. Annex 10 contains a list of the loan portfolio. 1/ This loan
portfolio is well diversified by economic sectors and the proportion of
new to expansion projects is about the same.
4.04      A breakdown of the loan portfolio according to the status of the
projects, and the situation on arrears of principal, interest and commitment
charges is provided below:
Portfolio                             Arrears over 3 months
------------------ -----(Amount in Tsh million)-              --------
Total Affected by                        Interest and
Operating        Principal Outstanding  Arrears over 3 months   Principal   Commitment Charges
Projects              No.      Amount        No.     Amount       No.  Amount    No.       Amount
Serious Problems      2         19.1         2          19.1       2      3.3       2        1.4
Moderate Problems    4          21.4         4          21.4        4     1.4       4        5.4
Other Projects       30        105.3        12          44.3       8      3.3       8        4.7
36       145.8        18          84.8       14     8.0      14       11.5
Projects under
implementation      22        149.1         4         29.7        1      0.6      4         1.3
TOTAL             58        294.9       22         114.5       15     8.6      18        12.8
As of June 30, 1977, 39% of TIB's portfolio was affected by arrears of
over three months.  However, since 50% of the portfolio was outstanding
in projects under implementation, it is premature to make a judgment on
1/   The analysis of TIB's portfolio has been made on a project basis,
although in some cases, TIB has made more than one loan for the same
project. See Annex 10.



- 16 -
the portfolio's overall quality on the basis of the size of the arrear-
affected portfolio. Projects facing moderate to serious problems account for
only 14% of the outstanding portfolio. The encouraging aspect is that 30 out
of the 36 operating companies, accounting for 72% of the amounts outstanding
in operating companies, and 36% of the total portfolio, are operating without
difficulties. Although 12 of these projects without difficulties were also
in 3rrears of over 3 months on principal, interest and commitment charges,
this appeared to be a temporary problem, and the total amount involved
(Tsh 8.0 million) is likely to be collected in the near future. Of the
22 projects under implementation, 4 have faced debt servicing problems due
to construction delays and are candidates for amortization rescheduling.
4.05      Annex 11 gives the latest situation of the six operating projects
with moderate to serious problems, which together have total arrears amounting
to Tsh 11.5 million; these were among the earliest projects TIB had approved
when it was a new institution developing its appraisal capabilities. All six
projects have financial problems (low profitability, and huge accumulated
losses) and varying degrees of management and technical problems (poor plant
design, lack of spare parts and lack of technicians). Of these, two projects
have more fundamental problems of poor project conception and design (mainly
inadequate markets). While TIB's intensive follow up of these projects is
gradually leading to an improvement of the situation in respect of the four
projects with moderate problems, the future of the two projects with serious
problems is uncertain, and TIB may lose a sizeable portion of its investments
(amounting to Tsh 19.1 million) in them. Only one of these (the navy bean
project) has been financed out of the Bank Group lines of credit. Since most
TIB projects having problems are owned by parastatal holding companies, TIB
periodically reviews the situation of these projects with the holding com-
panies to determine the most appropriate measures necessary to solve the
problems and in suitable cases agrees to capitalize the interest and commit-
ment charges or reschedule the principal payments.
4.06      TIB's equity portfolio of Tsh 26.7 million as of June 30, 1977
(Annex 12) consisted to Tsh 10.6 million of common stock in 3 companies and
Tsh 16.1 million in preference shares in 7 companies. About 71% (Tsh 10.0
million in common stock and Tsh 9.0 million in income notes) was outstanding
in the Tanzania Development Finance Ltd. (TDFL) one of Tanzania's development
banks, where TIB's role is mainly that of a convenient channel for the
Government's financial participation. TIB has received interest payments on
TDFL's income notes of 8% per annum, but has not received any financial
returns (dividends, interest) on other equity investments. This is partly due
to the psor financial performance of some of the companies (3 involving equity
investments of Tsh 4.7 million are problem projects) and partly to the fact
that some projects are still under implementation.
Resources
4.07      TIB has been particularly successful at mobilizing resources,
especially foreign exchange resources. As of June 30, 1977, it had total
ordinary domestic currency resources of Tsh 146.5 million consisting of
paid-in share capital (Tsh 100 million), internally generated funds
amounting to Tsh 25.9 million, a grant of Tsh 14.2 million from the



- 17 -
Tanzanian treasury, and Tsh 6.5 million from KfW. Its total ordinary foreign
exchange resources amounted to Tsh 738.5 million. As shown in Annex 7, these
have come from Swedish, Norwegian, Dutch, German, Finnish and Canadian aid,
provided typically through the Government under an umbrella agreement, an IDA
credit and direct loans to TIB from the Bank and the African Development Bank.
The terms under which TIB received these foreign funds are also detailed in
Annex 7. Except for the IDA credit and the ADB and Bank loans which were
passed on at annual interest rates of 7.25%, 7.0% and 8.5% respectively, TIB
has received the other funds on concessionary terms. Of the Tsh 405 million
(61% of total foreign resources) which TIB has received from Swedish and
Norwegian aid, only Tsh 8.5 million came in the form of a loan, (repayable
over 20 years including 6 years grace, and at an interest rate of 4% per
annum). The rest was provided as a straight grant subject only to the con-
dition that TIB transfer an amount equivalent to 6% per annum on subloans
made out of these funds into a special fund for the development of small
industries. The Dutch, Finnish and Canadian funds are long term loans bear-
ing concessionary interest rates ranging from 0.75% per anum to 2.5% per
annum.
4.08      TIB has also received Tsh 47.6 million (Tsh 12.7 million in domes-
tic currency) from Canadian, Norwegian, Swedish and Dutch aid, and from the
Treasury as agency funds (para 4.01) which it has disbursed on behalf of [.e
Treasury to 5 projects.
Financial Situation
4.09      Annex 14 shows TIB's audited balance sheets for the years ending
June 30, 1972-1977. In keeping with the rapid growth of its operations,
its long term assets, consisting almost entirely of portfolio investments,
have more than tripled over the six year period, increasing from Tsh 93
million as of June 30, 1972 to Tsh 330 million as of June 30, 1977. To
finance this increase in long term assets TIB has relied on increased long-
term borrowings and retained earnings and grants, with the last source
contributing the bulk of new financing. Thus, whilst its total long term
liabilities (Tsh 81 million) were 88% of its long term assets as of June 30,
1972, its long term liabilities (Tsh 160 million) by June 30, 1977 amounted
to only one-half of its long term assets. By comparison, TIB's net worth,
consisting mainly of paid-in capital and grants, increased from Tsh 52
million at the end of FY 72 to Tsh 302 million at the end of FY 77, an
increase of 500% over a six year period. As a result of this fast expansion
of equity base, TIB's long term debt to equity ratio improved from its
already sound position of 1.6:1 at the end of FY 72, to 0.5:1 at the end of
FY 77. TIB's liquidity situation has also remained very sound over the
years. Its net current assets increased from Tsh 40 million in 1972 to Tsh
132 million in 1977. The bulk of TIB's current assets is in cash and short
term investments.
4.10      As of June 30, 1977, TIB's provisions for doubtful debts and bad
investments amounted to Tsh 5.1 million. This was only 1.7% of its total
portfolio as of that date, compared to a level of provisions of only 0.5%



- 18 -
of the portfolio at the end of 1975. The level of provisions has been deter-
mined on the basis of an assessment of the situation of all projects in the
portfolio and the quality of TIB's security in each case. It is considered
adequate.
Financial Results
4.11      Annex 13 shows TIB's audited income statements for FY 72 through
FY 77, and Annex 20 shows selected financial ratios. TIB has increased the
spread between its income from loans and its financial expenses on long
term debt from 2.7% in 1972 to 5.2% in 1977, and has managed to hold down
its administrative expenses below 2% of its average total assets. Its
return on average net worth has remained modest at an average of 2.4% because
of the rapid expansion of its equity base, which has a large grant element
(para. 4.07). This modest level of profitability has prevented TIB from
declaring dividends since by statute it can only declare dividends when its
retained earnings grow to half the size of its authorized capital (that is,
to Tsh 100 million). Because it is a majority government-owned bank, this
has not adversely affected its ability to raise resources, however.
V. PROSPECTS
TIB's Strategy
5.01      About 21% of the planned Tsh 23 billion investment program for
the Third Five Year Plan is earmarked for the manufacturing sector, to
implement the Basic Industrial Strategy.  In formulating its strategy,
TIB has been guided by the plan and by the investment priorities set by
the parastatals. In the medium-term, TIB's strategy is proposed to be
as follows:
(i)  to increase gradually its share of the financing of
investments in the industrial sector from the present
20% to 25%, particularly by financing the types of
projects recommended in the Basic Industrial Strategy;
(ii)  to increase its efforts in project identification and
promotion by getting more involved in the formulation
of the specific investment plans of the parastatals;
(iii)  to pay more attention than in the past to the operational
problems of the projects it has already financed and to
make funds available for studies aimed at identifying
and resolving technical problems of operating companies;
and



- 19 -
(iv) to build up an adequate cadre of technical staff by
recruiting and training engineers in different
specialties.
We consider this strategy appropriate for TIB; it is consistent with the
Government's development priorities, fits well into TIB's role in the
Tanzanian economy, and is within its administrative capability.
Projected Operations
5.02      Annex 15 shows TIB's existing pipeline of projects as of June 30,
1977. All these projects are expected to be approved before December 31,
1977 and will require an estimated Tsh 105 million from TIB in addition to
about Tsh 250 million in new parastatal equity (to be raised mainly from the
Treasury) and about Tsh 150 million from other lenders. TIB keeps detailed
records only on new projects which are under active appraisal, but updates
its pipeline monthly. Annex 17 shows TIB's projected operations through FY82.
It is projected that TIB's approvals will increase by 15% per annum whilst the
level of its equity investments remains the same, in keeping with its policy
of a low exposure in equity investments. For the five year period ending June
30, 1982, TIB is projected to approve about Tsh 1.6 billion in loans and Tsh
10 million in equity investments. Some seventy percent of loans approved will
be in foreign currency, and all equity investments in local currency. Loan
commitments during the same period are expected to amount to about Tsh 1.8 bil-
lion, of which about Tsh 1.3 billion will be disbursed. These medium range
operational targets are in keeping with TIB's objective of financing about 25%
of investments in Tanzania's industrial sector, and their attainment is well
within the administrative capability of TIB.
Resource Requirements
5.03      TIB will need new resources to finance the planned increases in
its operations. Its projected resource requirements from July 1977 through
December 31, 1980 and the proposed financing plan (excluding the proposed
Bank loan) are as follows:



- 20 -
(Amounts in Tsh millions)
Estimated Commitments                               Domestic         Foreign
Loan Commitments                                   256            598
Equity Investments and Fixed Assets                 12             -
Debt Repayments                                     25             10
Total                                293            608
Proposed Financing Plan
Existing Uncommitted Resources                      44            440
Funds from Operations                               54             -
Loan Collections                                   128
New Loans and Grants                                -              -
Total                                226            440
Resource Surplus (gap)                             (67)          (168)
5.04      TIB expects to finance its domestic resource needs over the period
mainly through collection of existing loans and funds generated from opera-
tions. It will finance the estimated residual domestic resource gap of Tsh
67 million with new loans from the Treasury. Its requirement of foreign
funds will amount to Tsh 608 million. As of June 30, 1977 it had Tsh 440
million available for new commitments. TIB's foreign resource gap thereafter
is estimated at Tsh 168 million (approximately US$20 million). It has
requested that the Bank finance 75% of this gap with a US$15 million loan.
TIB's request for Bank assistance at this time stems from the fact that most
of its existing foreign resources (from SIDA and NORAD) can be used only for
financing manufacturing enterprises, and it is keen to have the operational
flexibility to finance enterprises in other sectors also, particularly
agro-industries, transport and tourism, where it expects to approve some
loans in the near future. The proposed Bank loan would provide TIB with the
necessary flexibility and would meet about 20% of TIB's estimated total
foreign resource requirements through December 1980. TIB plans to raise the
reovaining US$5.0 million from bilateral sources.
5.05      The proposed Bank loan will finance 100% of the c.i.f. cost of
imported goods and services, up to 65% of the invoice price of goods
previously imported into Tanzania, and up to 40% of the contract price under
civil works or construction contracts to be carried out.
Financial Prospects
5.06      Annexes 18 through 21 show financial projections and projected
ratios for TIB for 1978-1982. TIB's return on average net worth is projected
to increase from 2.9% earned in 1977 to about 5.3% by 1982. Although TIB's
profitability is still modest, it will be sufficient to enable TIB to maintain



- 21 -
an adequate equity base. It will also enable TIB to consider dividend pay-
ments to its shareholders after 1981 when, as the projections show, it will
be able to meet the legal requirement stipulated in its act (para 4.11).
Over the projection period TIB is expected to control its administrative
expenses closely so that they do not rise above 2% of its average total
assets. Its financial expenses will however become increasingly important
as it resorts to increased borrowing.  While the average yield from the loan
portfolio is expected to increase from the current rate of 9% to about 11.4%
by 1981 as more loans approved at an interest rate of 11% (plus a 1% commit-
ment charge and a 1% commission) are disbursed, the interest spread is not
expected to increase significantly. Apart from interest to be received from
its investment in TDFL income notes, TIB does not expect to receive any
dividend income from its other equity investments during the projection
period. TIB's debt service coverage is projected to be adequate during the
period, and will remain so, even if its loan collections should turn out
to be about 20% less than projected.
5.07      TIB's long term debt to equity ratio averaged 0.5 in 1977 and is not
projected to reach 1.0 until 1982. This gives TIB a sound equity base and
adequate cushion against possible erosion of equity due to portfolio losses.
TIB's liquidity situation has also been very sound. Because it is able to
drawdown on some of its lines of credit well in advance of disbursing the
funds to projects, TIB has substantial amounts of cash and short term invest-
ments. It is projected that this item alone would more than cover TIB's total
current liabilities (including current maturities of term debt). If other
current assets are included, TIB's current ratio is projected to exceed 3.0 in
each of the projected years, indicating that it will remain very liquid. TIB
expects to increase the provisions gradually so that by 1982, its total
provisions would amount to about 3.0% of its total loan and equity portfolio,
a significant increase from the 1.7% existing in 1977.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      TIB is a well organized and competently managed institution
which is making positive contributions to the economic development of
Tanzania through the selection and financing of economically justified,
financially viable and technically feasible projects, and through provision
of technical assistance for the management of such projects. It has an
appropriate medium term strategy involving, among other things, increased
lending to the productive sectors in accordance with the Basic Industrial
Strategy and the investment targets of the Third Five Year Plan. Furthermore,
it is helping to improve the operational efficiency of the parastatal enter-
prises by its willingness to find consultants to carry out efficiency
studies and to provide training facilities to their Tanzanian staff under
IDA's Technical Assistance Credit. To meet the lending targets it has
set under this strategy, it will need more foreign resources. A Bank loan
of $15.0 million is therefore recommended for TIB to enable it to meet part
of its foreign resource requirements through December 1980.



- 22 -
6.02      The proposed loan will be repaid according to a flexible Amortiza-
tion Schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedules of TIB's
sub-loans. The sub-loans will have a maximum maturity of 15 years, including
appropriate grace periods depending on the type of projects financed. TIB will
need the Bank's prior approval for each subproject using $800,000 or more
of the proposed loan, and will not be able to use more than $7 million in
total without the Bank's prior approval. TIB will on-lend the proceeds of
this loan at the current interest rate of 11%, with the foreign exchange risk
being borne by the sub-borrower.



ANNEX 1
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
STRUCTURE OF VALUE ADDED AND aVL0Y-%EAT.  IN
LARGE-SCALE MANUFACTURING IN TANZANIA 1965-73
Absolute Amount          Share Total (h)       Increase 1965-73
Absolute Share
1965   1969   1973       1965   1969   1973    Amount   Total
Value added (Shs. Million)
Consumer goods                        124.3  281.6  563.6       56.2   59.2   59.3    439.3       60.2
Food and food products             80.4  125.7  204.9       36.4   26.4   21.6    124.5        17.1
Non-food products                  43.9  155.9  358.7       19.9   32.8   37.7    314.8        43.1
Textiles and clothing              18.5   88.3  208.6        8.4   18.6   21.9    190.1        26.1
Intermediate coods                    87.6  142.7  302.3       39.6   30.0   31.8    214.7        29.4
Basic chemicals, non-edible
oils, petroleum products            4.8   30.6   58.0        2.2    6.4    6.1       53.2       7.3
Caoital goods                           6.0   48.2   79.5        2.7   10.1    8.4       73.5      10.1
Other manufacturine                    3.1    2.9    5.3         1.4    0.6    0.6        2.2      0.3
Total mAnufacturing                   221.0  475.4  950.7    100.0  100.0  100.0    729.7    100.0
Emiloyment (thousands)                                         -
Consumner Goods                        19.0   31.0   43.7       67.8   71.4   68.9       24.7      69.8
Food and food products              9.4   11.9   17.0       33.5   27.3   26.8        7.6      21.5
Non-food products                   9.6   19.1   26.7       34.3   44.0   42.0        17.1     48.3
Textiles and clothing               5.4   14.7   18.8       19.2   33.9   29.6        13.4     37.9
Intermediate goods                     8.1   10.2   16.1       28.9   23.6   25.4        8.0      22.6
Basic iadustrial chemicals,
non-edible oils, petroleum prod.  0.3    0.6    1.2.         1.1    1.4    1.9        0.9       2.5
Caoital gcods                           0.6    1.4    2.9        2.0    3.1    4.5       2.3       6.5
Other manufacturin4                    0.4    0.8    0.8        1.4    1.9    1.2        0.4       1.1
Tctal manufacturing                    28.1   43.4   63.5    100.0  100.0  100.0         35.4    100.0
Source:  Survey of Industries 1965 and Survev of Industrial Production,  1969 and 1973
ELAP ID
October 1977



ANNEX 2
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Interest Rate Structure in Tanzania
(As of March 31, 1977)
1969-1975         1976         March 1977
Bank of Tanzania
Rediscounts and advances
Commercial bills
Crop:  90 days                         5.00           5.00             5.00
91-180 days                     5.50           5.50            5.50
Other: 90 days 1/                   5.25-6.00      5.25-6.00       5.25-6.00
91-180 days                  5.75-6.50      5.75-6.50       5.75-6.50
Treasury bills (35 days) 2/
Rediscounts                            4.27           4.27             4.27
Advances                               4.77            4.77            4.77
Commercial Banks
Deposits
Savings                                      3.50           4.00            4.00
Time (7 days' notice)                    3.00-3.50           -               -
3-6 months                             4.00           4.00            4.00
6-9 months                             4.25           4.25             4.25
9-12 months                            4.50           4.50            4.50
Lending                                        6.50-10.00    6.00-10.50       6.00-10.50
Normal rate                                       8.00           8.00            8.00
Other Financial Institutions
Post Office Savings Bank
Deposits                                     3.00           4.00            4.00
Tanzania Housing Bank
Savings accounts                             4.50           4.50            4.50
Deposit accounts                             5.50           5.50            5.50
Fixed term deposits
1 year                                 5.50           5.50             6.00
2 years                                6.00           6.50             6.50
Lending                                                            5.00-10.00
Rural Development Bank
Short-term lending                           8.50           8.50            8.50
Long-term lending                            7.50           7.50            7.50
East African Development Bank                  8.50-9.00        10.00           11.00
Tanganyika Development Finance Co. Ltd.        8.50-9.50      9.00-9.50       10.00-11.50
Tanzania Investment Bank                       7.00-9.00        10.00         10.00-11.00
1/ Rate depends on the purpose for which the bill was drawn.
2/ For treasury bills of all maturities rediscounts are one-half percent and
advances one percent above the current rate for bills.
EAPID
nctober 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
1.          The National Bank of Commerce (NBC).  NBC is the only commercial
bank operating on the mainland (Zanzibar has its own commercial bank,the
Peoples' Bank of Zanzibar, which also manages the foreign exchange reserves
of Zanzibar, independently of the Bank of Tanzania). Established in 1967,
as a result of the merger of the eight commercial banks then operating in
Tanzania, NBC presently has 92 branches and 312 mobile units. NBC
discontinued its medium and long-term financing to industry and transferred
its term loan portfolio to TIB on its establishment in 1970. It now
advances money to industrial enterprises only on short-term basis for working
capital. NBC owns 30% of TIB's shares. As of June 30, 1975, NBC had a
paid-in capital of Tsh 50 million, reserves of Tsh 178 million and total
assets of Tsh 4,686 million. It made a profit of Tsh 142 million for FY 75.
As of this date, total deposits amounted to Tsh 3,648 million, indicating
an increase of 34% over the previous yearts figures. Deposits from the
private sector were 49% of the total deposits and those from the public
sector 36%. However, loans to the public sector amounted to 82% of the
total. Over 29% of the loans went to marketing of agricultural produce,
27% to mining and manufacturing and 20% to trade. The total number of
accounts increased from 366,000 in June 1974 to 449,000 at the end of Jisne 1975.
2.          The National Insurance Corporation (NIC).  Established in 1964
primarily as a property and casualty company, NIC is the only insurer in
Tanzania. It undertakes life, fire, marine, motor and miscellaneous
insurance. As of December 31, 1975, it had a paid-in capital of Tsh 5 million
reserves of Tsh 45 million and insurance funds of Tsh 172 million. Its
total assets amounted to Tsh 222 million, of which Tsh 167 million were
invested in treasury stock. Due to the Government's tight budgetary
situation, NIC is under pressure to put all its investments in treasury
stocks. Given the freedom of choice, NIC would like to increase its
investments in real estate. NIC owns 10% of TIB's share capital.
3.          The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB).  TRDB was established
in 1971 with an authorized capital of Tsh 300 million, of which
Tsh 150 million was fully paid-in as of June 30, 1975. TRDB's other
resources as of this date consisted of 6 IDA credits amounting to
Tsh 274 million and 4 loans from bilateral sources amounting to Tsh 49 million.
TRDB is authorized to provide financial assistance for all aspects of rural
development. During FY 75 it approved 176 loans amounting to Tsh 203 million
in 20 regions. About 70% of the loans were approved cor co-operatives,
ujamaa villages and the District Development Corporations. The bulk of the
loans (62 loans for Tsh 142 million) were for seasonal inputs, mainly
fertilizers and insecticide. The remaining medium and long-term loans
were for farm machinery, rural transport, crop storage, livestock development,
small scale industries and fisheries. As of June 30, 1975, about 19% of
TRDB's portfolio was affected by arrears.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
4.          The Tanzania Housing Banl: (THB).  It is the main source of
funds for commercial and residential buildings, including low cost
housing. It was established in 1972 with an authorized capital of
Tsh 100 million, of which Tsh 28 million was paid in, as of December 31, 1975.
As of this date, THB had reserves of Tsh 2 million, grants from Germany
and Sweden of Tsh 6.5 million and loans from CDC, Canada, Workers and
Farmers Housing Fund and the Government aggregating Tsh 52 million and
deposits of Tsh 128 million. THB pays 4.5% on savings and between 5.5%
and 6.5% on time deposits. IDA had provided a crefit of $2 million to
THB as part of the financing for the Site and Services Project. Total
assets amounted to Tsh 221 million, of which mortgages and other loans
amounted to Tsh 183 million. THB charges interest in the range of 5-10%
on its loans and its average return on loans is about 8.5%. Apart from
its Head Office, TRDB has one zonal office, 10 branches and 7 agencies in
Tanzania including one agency in Zanzibar.
5.          The National Provident Fund (NPF).  Originally constituted to
provide retirement benefits to its members, the benefit eligibility
criteria were liberalized in 1975 to include payment of benefits during
prolonged unemployment. All employers of more than four workers are
required to contribute to NPF 10% of the employeest regular salary, 50%
of which can be deducted out of the salary. NPF had assets of Tsh 482
million as of September 1973. The net value of memroers contributions
to NPF has been increasing rapidly and went up from Tsh 86 million in
FY 73 to Tsh 159 million in FY 75. NPF is required by statute to invest
all its surpluses in government securities. Its bond holdings increased
by Tsh 161 million in 1975.
6.          The Tanganyika Post Office Savings Bank (TPOSB).  This
institution is used mainly by small urban savers whose accounts presently
number over 384,000. As of June 30, 1975, total deposits in TPOSB amounted
to Tsh 90 million. All surpluses in TPOSB are required to be invested in
government securities.
7.          The Tanganyika Development Finance Company Ltd. (TDFL).  TDFL
was established in 1962 with an authorized capital of Tsh 60 million, of
which Tsh 40 million is paid in. The latter is owned in equal amounts by
TIB, CDC, DEG and FMO (the last three are bilateral aid agencies of U.K.,
West Germany and the Netherlands). The shareholders have also subscribed
in equal amounts to TDFL's income notes amounting to Tsh 31.6 million. TDFL's
Board has six directors, five representing the foreign shareholders and the
sixth representing the Tanzanian investor. The latter is also the Chairman
of its Board. TDFL has played an important part in promoting and financing
projects in the manufacturing sector. Until a few years ago TDFL was
financing only private sector projects but has since changed its policies
to include financing of public sector projects as well. From its inception
to December 31, 1976, TDFL approved Loans and equ-ty investments aggregating
Tsh 129 million in 57 projects. During 1976 TIDFL approved financing of 13
projects involving Tsh 32 million.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
8.          The East African Development Bank (EADB) was established in
1967 as an East African Community Corporation, with an authorized
capital of Tsh 562.4 million; the majority ownership is held by the
three partner States of the community (each with 30.75% holding), and the
minority ownership by six banks and a consortium of Yugoslav institutions.
It finances only industrial projects and its charter requires it to
divide 77.5% of its total investments equally among Uganda and
Tanzania and invest the remaining 22.5% in Kenya. The World Bank has
provided EADB with two lines of credit (a US$ 8.0 million loan in 1972
which is fully disbursed, and a US$15 million in 1976). As of June 30, 1976
EADB's cumulative commitments in Tanzania amounted to Sh 111.3 million
compared to cumulative commitments of Sh 392.7 million by TIB; its impact
on resource allocation to the productive sectors in Tanzania is therefore
rather limited compared to TIB. A large part of its operations in
Tanzania consist of large projects jointly financed with other insti-
tutions (including TIB). EADB presently charges an interest rate of
10.0% per annum plus an appraisal fee of 1% (for projects which are
ultimately approved) and a commitment charge of 1.0% per annum.
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
TIB's Statement of Investment and Financial Policy
The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) was created by an Act of the
Tanzania National Assembly which came into effect on November 16, 1970.
The Objects of the Bank
TIB will extend its assistance on the basis of national priorities
for economic and social development as laid down in the current and future
national development plans. In this respect, TIB will:
(a)   make available long and medium term finance for:
(i) the development of manufacturing, assembly and processing
industries including industries engaged in the processing
of products of agriculture, forestry or fishing;
(ii) the development of engineering, construction, transport,
tourist and mining industries; and
(iii) the development of large-scale corporate agriculture,
ranching, forestry and fishing.
(b)   provide technical assistance and advice for the purpose of
promoting industrial development;
(c)   administer such special funds as may from time to time be
placed at the disposal of the Bank; and
(d)   undertake such other activities as may be necessary or
advantageous for the purpose of furthering the foregoing
objectives.
A. General Policy
1.    As a national development institution, TIB will lend its assistance
to the development of soundly managed enterprises in the United
Republic of Tanzania in all the sectors of the economy specified
in the Act.
2.    TIB will extend its assistance on the basis of national priorities
for economic and social development as laid down in the current
and future development plans. TIB will only finance projects which
are technically feasible and economically sound and financially
viable. TIB's economic evaluation will take into account, among
others, the foreign exchange savings or earnings, the development
of manpower skills, employment opportunities and the spread effects
on the rest of the economy, as well as the effect on Government
budget.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
3.   TIB will in the framework of the national development strategy
give priority to public sector projects.
4.   TIB will not subsidize enterprises or projects whether in the
public or private sector. In the case of projects which are
less than financially viable the decision on their implementation
because of the overall development effect, should be taken by
the national planning authorities with appropriate recommendations
for Government subsidies.
5.   TIB will prepare broader studies of the sectors where important
applications for TIB financing are on hand or expected in order
to ensure a thorough and comprehensive evaluation of such appli-
cations. It will also prepare such other studies which will
facilitate the analysis of TIB's role in the development policy
of the country and which will make TIB an active partner in the
national planning effort.
6.   TIB will take the lead in identifying and appropriately publicizing
investment opportunities in all the productive sectors of the
economy. It will, where appropriate, extend technical assistance
and advice to its clients in matters of project planning, organization
and financing. It will also place emphasis on the use of suitable
modern management techniques among its customers.
7.   All applications for TIB assistance must be formerly submitted to
it in writing through the applicants' Board of Directors. All
applications must be accompanied by written confirmations of
relevant Ministries that the project in question is in line with
national development objectives
B.   Investment Policy
1.   TIB will grant medium and long term loans whose terms and condi-
tions, such as repayment periods, interest rates, commitment fees,
and grace periods, will vary with the requirements of each project
taking into account relevant Government policies as well, it will
also invest in the share capital of enterprises, underwrite
securities and guarantee debts as appropriate.
2.   TIB's financial   assistance from the ordinary resources will
not normally amount to less than        100,000.  However, TIB will
be prepared to consider requests for financing of projects which,
although requiring a smaller amount, nevertheless present a definite
economic interest.
3.   TIB will seek to diversify its portfolio in order to maintain a
reasonable level of risk. In this respect and as a general rule
the total outstanding commitments granted by TIB on its ordinary



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
resources in favour of a single project shall nit exceed 75%
of the value of the total investment in fixed assets and capital-
ized services (i.e., excluding current assets/working capital).
This means that TIB can wholly finance a project which is an
extension, provided the total involved does riot exceed 75% of the
total fixed investment programme. Under normal circumstances a
figure of 60% shall be an acceptable target.
4.   As a rule, the total outstanding co-nmitments granted by TIB in
favour of a single project shall not exceed 20% of TIB's net
worth.
5.   The restrictions laid down in paragraphs (3) and (4) above may
be waived in cases where TIB is acting as a trustee, on behalf
of the Government or one of its agencies, for the channelling
of foreign funds to a specific project and where TIB's liability
towards the foreign agency or lender is fully and unconditionally
covered by a guarantee from the Government or the agency concerned.
6.   Under normal circumstances, TIB's total investments in the form
of equity participation may not exceed 40% of its paid in share
capital, unimpaired reserves and grants.
7.   TIB will not grant loans for the purpose of refinarcing projects.
8.   In principle, TIB will participate in the financing of such pro-
jects only where the procurement of plant and machinery, contractors
and services is made by way of the most widely spread tenders. As
a rule, international tendering will be required, but in cases where
local contractors or suppliers are available, local tenders may be
considered sufficient. At all events procurement of goods and
services or the award of contracts for the total or partial financing
for which TIB's assistance is being sought must not take place before
or without the Bank having been consulted by the applicant or project
promoter. The Bank will also require minutes of meetings of boards
or committees where offers have been d-iscussed and decisions taken
with respect to suppliers, contractors, etc. Such decisions must
be well documented in a comparison of the -various offers received
and all reasons for the choices made must be given therein.
9.   In cases of single items constituting the object of TIB's financing,
and whose value does not exceed Tshis. 100,000 per item, a reasonable
number of different proforma invoices from various suppliers may be
accepted by the Bank instead of a full tender. For the selection
process the last sentence of para. 8 above applies.
10.   TIB will not finance infrastructure projects such as roads, buildings,
etc., except insofar as such infrastructure is required as part of
a project which does come within TIB's terms of reference.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
11.   Where appropriate TIB will join with other financing institu-
tions, local or foreign, in financing projects.
12.   TIB will endeavor to maintain a well-balanced loan portfolio
by distributing its commitments--i.e., loans, guarantees and
participations--prudently among the sectors of the economy
falling within the range of its objects.
C. Financial Policy
1.   It will be the general aim of TIB's financial policy to maintain
the value of its own capital, to manage its funds in such a way
that it is at all times able to honor its obligations and to
achieve a profit margin that enables it to cover its operating
costs, build up adequate provisions and reserves, and remunerate
its share capital.
2.   TIB will maintain a satisfactory balance between the maturities
of its own obligations and those of the loans it grants.
3.   In cases where loans are made in currencies other than Tanzanian
Shillings, TIB will not accept any exchange risks. This will
have to be borne by the borrower or by the Government.
4.   The minimum interest rate charged by TIB will substantially reflect
the cost of capital in Tanzania, but will normally hot be less than
10%.
5.   In addition to interest, TIB shall charge a commission of 1% on
the total loan at the time of first disbursement.
6.   A commission in terms of a percentage of outstanding loans or
participation amounts will be charged in return for particular
and specified services, such as one time or continuous provision
of technical assistance by TIB (organizational, planning) or the
negotiations and arrangement of finance from other sources. The
size of the commission will have to depend on the work and effort
involved for TIB, it should, however, normally not exceed 2% of
the amount upon which it is charged.
7.   The fee to be charged by TIB for the granting of a guarantee to
a supplier or tenderer will depend on the nature of the project,
the general present and expected future standing of the borrower's
business, the extent of the commitment entered into, the size of
the amount guaranteed and the duration of the guarantee commitment.
It will normally not be less than 1-1/2% per annum on outstanding
amounts.
8.   On all loans a commitment fee will be charged at the uniform rate
of 1% per annum on committed but undisbursed balances. Such com-
mitment fee will accrue from the date of the completed signing of



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
the loan agreement, but not later than from a date 30 days
after receipt by the Borrower of the Bank's written decision
to grant the loan.
9.   The maximum term of a loan or guarantee will be 15 years
counted from the date of the loan agreement until the date of
the last repayment installment. The maximum grace period--
with interest due and payable--will be five years counted
from the date of the loan agreement. The validity of Board's
approval for each loan shall not exceed six months counting
from the date on which the decision was made.
10.   All charges, i.e., legal fees, bank charges and commissions
and all appraisal costs other than those normally incurred by
the Bank, will constitute recoverable items of expenditure
under the application and the loan agreement.
11.   TIB will seek adequate security for its lendings, such as
debentures, mortgages, promissory notes and guarantees. The
kind and amount of security required will depend on the nature
of the assets charged as to their degree of liquidity, the
standing of the guarantors and other considerations having
regard to the future expectations from a project.
12.   In addition TIB will, in full awareness of the relative value
of any type of classical security (except for a first-class
guarantee) under present circumstances, incorporate in its loan
or guarantee agreements all those conditions which in the Bank's
opinion are designed to improve the borrower's management and
organizational set-up with a view to improved project viability.
Areas of consideration in this respect will be (a) the selection
of plant and equipment, (b) plant location, (c) technical organiza-
tion, (d) cost accounting, (e) product mix, (f) marketing and
(g) financial policies, procedures and practices.
13.   The Borrower has the right, upon not less than 30 days notice
and upon payment of all accrued interest, commitment fees,
charges and commissions to repay all or any installments of the
loan in advance of maturities, provided that 25% of the amount
of the interest saved by the borrower through such repayment in
advance shall be paid to the Bank as a premium.
14.   Under certain specified conditions such as a failure to make repay-
ments or non-fulfillment of loan conditions, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, suspend wholly or in part the right of
the Borrower to disbursements from the loan account.
15.   TIB will make adequate provisions against potential losses and
build up reserves to a level consistent with sound financial
practices, taking into account the size and quality of its port-
folio of loans and investments as well as the need to pay adequate
dividends to shareholders.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
16.   Whenever it considers  it necessary to broaden its own facilities
for operations, TIB will obtain funds locally or abroad by the
issue of bond loans and/or by entering into loan agreements. In
this connection, the Bank will follow a prudent policy as far as
debt acquisition is concerned.
D- Relationship with Enterpristes Financed
1.   TIB will not seek by the making of equity investments, to obtain
a controlling interest in a project or enterprise. It will also
generally avoid assuming management responsibilities in such pro-
jects or enterprises. This will not, however, preclude TIB from
requiring membership on the Board of Directors of any or all enter-
prises in which it has outstanding loans or guarantee arrangements
or in which it has equity participation.
2.   When deciding upon the amount and the form of financial assistance
it will provide, TIB will take into account all the financial
requirements of the project and the general financial situation
of the borrowers in question.
3.   In accordance with normal banking practices, TIB will require
its borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate security, to
keep records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices and to furnish whatever information on their operations
and accounts TIB deems desirable. TIB will have the right to
inspect the enterprises it finances as well as their operations
and accounts.
4.  Business secrets and other information furnished by applicants
or clients will be treated as confidential by TIB.
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 5
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Board of Directors
(As of March 31, 1977)
Board Member                    Position                      Appointed By
Mr. G.F. Mbowe                  Chairman & Managing           President
Director
Mr. A.S. Janguo                 Deputy Principal Secretary  Government
Ministry of Finance and
Planning
Prof. J.F. Rweyemamu            Personal Assistant to         Government
the President
Mr. C. Sammang'ombe             Representative of the         Government
National Union of
Tanganyika Workers
Mr. G. Mwaikambo                General Manager, NIC          National Insurance Corp.
Mr. F.J. Kibonde                Director of Domestic          National Bank of
Banking, NBC                       Commerce
Prof. A.J. Temu                 Professor, University         National Bank of
of Dar es Salaam                   Commerce
Mr. H.K. Ameir                   Secretary General, Int.      Government
Government Standing
Committee on Staffing
vacant                          Member of Parliament          Government
EAPID
October 1Q77



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
organization Chart
(As of March 31, 1977)
IBOARD OF DIRECTORS
CHAIRMAN & MANAGING DIRECTOR
G.F. Mbowe
GENERAL MANAGER
IS. Kassim (On Training)|
LOAN CM                                                            MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
STAFF APPOINTHENT |                                                 OUSING ALLOCATION
OMHIEE                                                                 COMMITTEE
|OPERATIONS DEPT.                                FINANCE DET.                                         PLANNING AND    ||SECRETARY' S AND                                        CHE
I E_ Tibesigwa,                                  T. Urasa,                                            DEVELOPMENT                               ADMINISTRATIVE                   N
Director                                     Director                                                DEPT                                       DEFT.AUTO
18 Professionals                         Kitembe  Act   Director          M
| APPRAISAL     l        i FOLLOW-U~P  ~     A                        C ONTROLLER                  PROJECT                     P        IDENTI- |BOARD                   PERSONNELl
[13essionals             Profes                   Professionals            PROMOTION I        _IC AION                                         IPoessional
3EASIBILITY STUDIES                    |IBrofsNas                                              LIBRAY AND                                  GENERAL
14 Professionals                              [3    ssinal,J                                           PUBLICATIONS                               SERVICES
Professional Staff               41
Tanzanians             33
Expatriates             8
EAPI'I                                                                                                                      Non-Professional Staff            50
October 1977
TOTAL           91



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Summary of Foreign Lines of Credit
(as of June 30, 1977)
Source                    Amount             Loar./Crant    Tied/Untied    Rpayment Period          Interest Rate
(in Tshs million)                                          (FY)
Funds at TIB's Risk
SIDA I                     8.5                 Loan           Untied          1980-1994               4% p.a.
SIDA I                     6.3                 Grant        Tied to TDFL          -
SIDA II 1/                19.2                 Grant          Untied              -                      -
SIDA III 1/               28.5                 Grant          Untied              -                      -
NORAD I  1/               41.6                 Grant          Untied              -                      -
CIDA  I  1/               13.9                 Loan           Untied          1983-2022                  -
CIDA II  1/                4.4                 Loan           Untied          1985-2025                  -
Finnish Credit 1/          6.0                 Loan           Tied            1983-2000               0.75%
IDA 2/                    45.9                 Loan           Untied          1978-1989               7.25%
ADB I                     13.6                 Loan           Untied          1977-1988               7.0%
ADB II                    30.0                 Loan           Untied          1980-1992               7.5%
KfW I 3/                   24.8                Loan           Untied          1985-2025               0.75%
KfW II3/                  52.5                 Loan           Untied          1988-2028               0.75%
Dutch Credit              18.9                 Loan         Tied to ALAF      1986-2025               0.75%
IBRD 2/                  123.7                 Loan           Untied          1981-1995               8.5%
SIDA IV  1/              200.0                 Grant          Untied              -                      -
NORAD II  1/             107.2                 Grant          Untied              -
Agency Funds
CIDA III                   9.0                 Loan           Tied            1981-2024
NORAD  4/                  2.9                 Grant          Tied                -
SIDA  1/                  19.0                 Grant          Tied                -
Dutch Credit  1/           3.9                 Loan           Tied            1986-2025
Treasury Fund  1/         12.7                 Grant          Tied                -
1/  TIB does not pay interest to the Government on these but must transfer an amount equivalent to 6% per annum
on each subloan into a special fund.
2/ Repayment schedule is subject to amendment so as to conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedule
of subloans.
3/ TIB is to transfer an amount equivalent to 4% interest per annum on subloans to a special fund.
4/  TIB is to transfer an amount equivalent to 4.45% interest per annum on subloans to a special fund.
EAPID
October 1977



TANZANIA INVESTMENP BANK
Summary of Operations 1971-1977
(Amounts in Tah '000)
Of which
Year Ending June 30                 1971              1972             1973              1974              1975               1976                   1977               Cu-8lati,e        Agency Operations
No.   Amount   No.   Amount    No.   Amount          No.   Amount    No.   Amount         No.      Amount    No.         Amount      No.   Amount          No.    Amount
APPROVALS
Loans                       5    7,520    13    34,565    15    52,870           25    97,092    22    128,651       20       150,418   23           309,512     123   780,428          5     47,648
Equity                              -        2      1200       1       400       4      7.175      2         700      3        10,640    4           _ 3.770      16   _3,885           -        -
Total                  5    7,520    15    35,765    16    53.270          29   104,267    24    129,151        23       161,058   27          313,282     t39   804,313          5      47,648
COWIITMENTS
Loans                       -       -       _        _        18    54,255      10    53,807    31    118,772        17       134,036    6           43,170       R7   403,990         5      47,648
Equity                              -        2      1,200      1       400        3     5,175      2         700      3        10,640    4                        15   21883            -      -
Total                  _      -        2      1,200      n    54,655       i3    58,982    33    UiT           2W       144,676   10            46,890      97   425,873          5     47,648
DISBURSEHENTS
Loans                                       . -  n.a.   9,092    n.a.   9,629   n.a.  39,023    n.a.   70,338        23        77,644   18           142,113      82   347,839          5     79.751
Equity                              -       n.a.   1         s000    n.a.  760  n.a.  4_839    na.          -         2           476    2             1,740       9      8,815         -      -
Total                                 . -  n.a.  10,092    n.a.  10,389    n.a.  43,862    n.a.   70,338    25            78,120   20           142,853      91   356,654         5      29,751
CANCELLATIONS
Loans                       1       600      4      5,200     4      4,000        3     8,500    _          _         2        13,103     3            71,500     17   102,903          -        -
Equity                      -       -        -       -         -          --                       -                  2        10.400    -              -          2   _LO.400--
Total                  1      600      4      5,200      4      4,000       3     8,500                -         4        23,503    3            71,500      19   113,303
NOTE:  Equity Investments exclude Tshs 25.0 million invested in TDFL shares
and income notes.  This had been fully committed and Tshs 19.0 million
had been disbursed as of June 30, 1977.
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 9
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Analysis of Loans Approved as of June 30, 1977
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
A.  SIZE                                 No.            %           Amount            %
Up to Tsh 2.59 million               42            41           53,528           9
Tsh 2.6 - 5.09 million               19            19           77,173          12
Tsh 5.1 - 7.59 million               17            17         112,550           18
Tsh 7.6 - 10.09 million               6             6          51,700            8
Tsh 10.1 million and over            17            17         334,926           53
Total                       101            100         629,877         100
Mean Size Tsh 6.2 million
B.  MATURITY
Up to 5 years                        15            15           27,341           4
5.1 - 7 years                        27            27         109,149           17
7.1 - 10 years                       37            36         259,960           41
Over 10 years                        22            22         233,827           37
Total                       101            100         629,877         100
Mean Maturity 7.9 years
C.  INTEREST RATE
7%                                    1             1            7,000           1
8%                                    4             4            6,605           1
8.5%                                 15            15          51,845            8
9%                                   21            21          79,966           14
9.5%                                  2             2            8,000           1
10%                                  29            29         152,804           24
11%                                  29            28         323,657           51
101           100         629,877          100
Weighted -! Mean 10.2%
SUB-SECTOR
Chemical and Rubber                   8             8          48,682            8
Food and Food Processing             26            25         135,414           21
Metals & Non-Metallic Minerals        9             9          49,434            8
Tanneries and Leather                 7             7          31,614            5
Textiles and Rope                     9             9          55,296            9
Tourism                               8             8          52,972            8
Transport                             9             9          72,715           12
Wood and Wood Processing              9             9           33,291           5
Others                               16            16         150,459           24
1/  Weighted by amount.              101           100         629,877         100
EAPID
October 1977



TANZANIA 1090141TMW  SAJ
Lint of Ordlaal Loon Portfolio an of J.an 30. 1977
(Aa En.eti  ThR  Million)
Ploanrd tic/er
Loan                                                               ioonic                             Type of                         A-o,t                       MAct                 fatatoOt             Roayet    ak/lIDA
Mto.                     PROJECTAcityPoctAena                                                                                                                   lgtninit1.Pre                                          Lo/Cet              Rmrk
70                       Al-aio-n  Africa Lcd.                   Cold Ro.er,i.g Mill                8v10.5                                                        10. 5                  10                10          1080                Probin   fre
N9                       Al.unico. Africa Ltd.                    Cold Ro-oraig Mill                 Eopa... on                      20.0                         20.0                   it                 10                             Proble  free.
94                       AI,-fn-  dfrlo-  Lcd.                   Cold OcRe-iog Mill                  tooso                              .A                          1.]                  ii                 10                             Proble   fr...
35                        occWhacoonWhea  0o-iog                                                    Noo                               0.3                          0.2                   0.5                6                              Probln  tree.  Arrar   n  n-re
90                        ooCneena   atr                         Canbhnent peoce..aino              en.                              10.0                         10. 0                  10                 10         1880D               tidr,  ipiun-co
44                IOtA~~~~DS  DeeIn1sent Crponatioo        Pinking                            eN-                               0.9                          0.8                   0                  A                              Attes. .. princIpal A In tre-
13                       cSii Mit.r 3nna poet Co. Ltd.           Tro..np-rtaton                      Uop ..ion                        7.5                          1.7                   0.5                5                              Probles Penn
l0A                       EA. toErnaI Tnien-   lYRC               Co oncconle                                                         13.0                          6.3                  Ii                   7 .5                          tider I.erle-etscicn
20                       Pibrebood Africa Ltd.                   Pibrekoad prod-etio                Now                               6.0                          6.0                   0.5               12                              Moderate1  p-bklena.  Arrne   O
princlpo If I.t--eee
76                       Plhbeeord AfrIca Ltd.                   Fibbrebad prodontlon               E,paneion                         2.0                          2.0                  to                 7                               M,l/troe poiss
46                        lhr   runr   o-pPlco                                                       noco                             0.4                          0.3                    9                6.3                             Arreorso   pr.iorIp     & Int-rst.
Al                       Kid-c_-t I.oa                            ngar project                      14-t                              4.1                          0.6                   10               Il                               VW/r  .plmntcn
32                       tilimenJarn lboml  Ltd.                 Htnnl                              Renova-tion                       5.0                          2.1                   910Polmfe
42                       tlo.eoIgo  Mil                           uarMl                              e                               11.4                         10.                    9                13.5                             PrbemIo
52                RI lea Ornieflln Ltd.                   SoRer Mill                         New                               6.5                          39                    9                14                               Prblem  f-t   Arre.r, or itteret
77   ~~~~~~~MIjoiot  Ye ibIs. Ltd.                         fo. Mill                          tN-e                               6.8                          l.                   I0                 7                               Coe    .yeerto
TI                       Macee iLiren-to  Work. Ltd.             L-at-n  neck.                      Eonin0.5                                                       O.k                   9                 7Polmfe
66                       W.ot  Son M111.                         Yaw Mill.                          N-e                               4.0                          3.1                   10                8                               tic/e  in.lronentarl.  Arresr. on
41                       Mo/eo  CGt.ent  Ltd.                    Garet prodaccio                    Ne-                               1.4                          1.3                   9                 5.5                             Polmfe
70                       Horog..o 011 Mill                       Seed p-.nonan  HoMo                                                 13.5                          2.1                  1Ia               II           fB00                OneU    lnbn.e-tto    Arrear   -
109                       .pnd  Wo Mil  (IPDCO                     o  Mill                           MeI07                                                           .AII                                                                   tienhd-    eoostc
33             lOt~~~~~~~~~M. Hero Motel                lntel                              eN-                               7.5                          7.5                   913                                               Arreera  - prie-pl     Itees
lt                       McIbIm  Segn- EstoLen                   Sugar tacatnaF.  ..oneo                                              7.0                          7.0                   q8                                               Mooaopoln. Arra-                  o
60                      fKeanbochingine..i. AI.                   gto...ering Contractor.           iopan..II.                        7.5                          7.3                  10                 6                               Pocblem free
C-ntnt-e-   (HECCO)
47                       Mea..a Powe  (TANfESCO)                 Ge-e-rtr                           topon.. o                         7.5                          6.0                   i                15                               lid/e  ti .menat-n   Arrar  e
55                       lannTano-rls                            Ton.ery                            Hle                               6.0                          6.0                   9.5               9           IDA                 Un/er  Impleeetotlo.  Arrar-o
ptein-pt I   jofecet-
104.                              T..... Yn ien                   Tontey                             ropo..eion                        5.5                          1.0                  11                 6.5         cORlI               Uin/n  iacortoir.    rrnr   o
10              Notional ~~~~~~Cold Chain Opeentio-     told to.erge                       Mon                               7.0                          7.0                   7                17                               ebo   crohbl-n   Oreoeo
34                       Neciono.ICold Chain Opencis-            Cold  - totge                      140                               2.9                          2.9                   8.5               7.5                             lerte.n  problen.  Arrar   o
Nlatoos t..I lnee--ng Co. Ltd.          M-ch-ni-n  -okebop                 Eopon-ion                         2.0                          1.9                   8                 P7oeaepoiei. Arsso
prriolP.1  Iners
S9                      Nainl  iln  Cop                            Ie-iltr                                                           2.0                          1.0                    0.,              7                               Arenr  00.  prIncipal & Ic --n
27ntoa   Priting   o.Ld.R.itigtpo..I-n                                                                                               2.6                          2.3                   10                4.5                             Problem free
53                lOre bInd   Motel I                      Oct1                               Non                              2.                           2.0                    9                9                               A-nn-o  in ftes-
40             elyanta Flnhtng A Protean ng&C.          Pikprcssn.fe                                                        4.                           4.0                    99.8                                             ercblem  Ine.  Arenonites
7t1nns   iho   At .re .essig C..    FleA  preneoslng                                                topanson6.0                                                    6.0                  10.               10                               Polmfree    Arro,0-iere
4                        ytoSl    ie                            s.It mn,tpain3.0                                                                                  3.0                   8.               10                               Mo/.rete prehlonn.  Arnoota 00 .
14                HY-.~lonn  Salt Mines                    Sole prod-ctIo                    ftp.nnion                         1.1                          1.5                    9               t0iooaecobon                                               rere
so                       P itico                                 Noe                                 e                               0.7                           0.7                   9                1I                               Arreroo   principal    i-ter-s
07                       PADECO                                  lIce                               ipooalo                           0.4                          0.4                  10                 8rornepniocipeI & interet
Ti                ~~~~~~~PADECO                           Oil sill                           Met                               1.1                           1.1                   9                4                               ti/rip-nnain                  Anreno
princpal A ntnn
06                        ult   oonMotor car body kuildin0                                          U F..p.nII.                       0.4                         0.                    I                  4           I080                Prblem  fre
Al                       _o,n   onti,Ld                           inf_u_,n                          Arm                              13.5                         13.5                  10                 7IO/tBROD                       tne   ipoetto
93                       Sbolent Ln  td.                         M-futfo-oiog                       fN..                              1.9                          1.8                  I0                 7I08011                             I/r  tn -eetate
31                                 S.. 1   Hn i MIII             S.. nill                           toya..io                          77                           7.                    8.1I                                              Areasni  ee 
74                ~~~~~~S:. eItl  SacU Hi IlI              S-o mill                          Ecyono. in58.0                                                                       10               13                               Acaso   ntcn
7 tSetbetWhet Sbre                                        tAot  chen                         Om                                 .4                          3.6                   10                0                               Onn   alnoato.Anoao
,5                        T-11.ibon  enll  Mill. Lcd.      TroiesItNc25.2                                                                                   6.6                   11                8IOA/13to                       li/nfpto        -entato
64                       T.c                                     C.senitpn         sIc              No.                               5.0                          5.0                  10                10          IRA                  On/sr tepte.e.t.fiot
64             tatcouylba ~~~~~~OYIylg 4 7/n-tig        -Teniie                           New                             10.1                          9.8                   10                6           1800                Problem  free
97                       To-ga-ylks Dyeltg A W-aing              TeethesE.  ..snic L.3                                                                             6.7                  II6                                                PnhIem  feen
83                       Toegnoylkn  F-c-a  Ce. Ltd.             Pr-ree. I-R  ef flcsetc            Not                              18.6                          1.0                  I                                                  On/sr impl-teetatin.  Arreas o
in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nes 
Itt               ~~~~~~T-g-cylka  1IcdosIni.1 Corp.       Stel  roe  -    eicc               iP...i W.3                                                    0.3                    8.1              8                               Problem  ie-
S'IOTOTAI.                                                                                                320.3                        225.5                                                                                                                  I



Fll-nred  (odd
e,s,                                                               Prononir                          I3'ptof                      Amount                     AmDUDnnt                 Ittetet          tpeenA R,.y-,   B-nk/IPA
1,                       PROJECT                                  Activi ty                         PrOfect                       Apyved                  Ootste.ndinj              hRae 7.           Period       LUanrrydit             te_ nA ep_ _
SOiS)TAL                                                                                                320i3                      225.5
ZR                       TeoganoylkT   TeRry plenties Ltd        ripe  file   -f-no. - trlob        Topans-Ln                       3.7                       2.2                     8.5
91                       T--yi-anpko TaRry Pl-tnis Itd           IIP'  Rile,  -ufetevtvtlog        r-p-i-on                        8.4                        266 IDN A                                            t                       l.le,a Ire.
84                       Tanzania A,rpart-                        tenuitttrlng                       ien                            2.0                       1i.                     ii                  S        ItetO
29                       Paneatia Cfmcaval                       Chetaical peed... Ion              Epanesi                         2.0                        2.0                     9.5               6                                Arrars..,  principal & t '
IA                       Too--i.a Con-tmi  ehtpping line         Slhipping                           Ep.n.ioo                       0.5                       0.3                     8                  5         ItBdD                  Arr--t  no princIpal A I
37                       Taoeanle Co.Ital IShipping line         Shipping                           Cornon                          9.7                       9.7                     85                1                                 t5enre  co  'loipa A   I
88                       Tza  ia Coatel tRIpping Line            SElPPlng                          Popol 6,                          0                       A 0                      0                 5c ter.r   0 prl..cile. 4 Iv
9n                       TonrooRo Co :trol Shipptnt Line          Shipping                          Enp n-ton                       O.                        0.1 3                   0                                                                  ," Ite-t' to  irtpSp    4 I
P1                       botanicn  Fltlierire                     etonV  tleing                    N-                              3.5                        3.5                   1 O                h.,Io, Bopenroo In                                            eenre
5S                       Ttntia  Fichnete                        FRnI net Danotateleg               Expotelen                       1.0                       0.9                     9                  4                                Pr, fle  frn
72                       Tateatia Fiehno                         Pinh Ft tnen notarelg              rtpneiot                       0.5                        8.0                     0                  6                                Pr,l,ln  Pen
13                       Toocttna Teatlont  iratbe               Pllnhogbito s                      PEptesiet                       l S                       1.                     111O                6                                terroar, .e.pi..ipal h Io,eo,ee
63                       Tanzania  Nt loa 1  Pepiea              CfiaAing liens                     Etpotsioe                       18 6. 1                                           0t                 8                                t,eoertc1, °     , rrn pa, 1.4i
IS                       fanoanf Nant Aeon. ltipC03              OrnOingIpente-lng                  Popae Ion 12                                             1 2                     8 5                8         lOt                    Soel  'a proc
61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eo nn T                                                                                                                                                                                                      o',Icl,:elkA I nrirrentP
65                       T-aeni  Navy Scene                       Trnvtig peoree  iog               EPopnsion                      10. 7.0                                           10                  6                                Serf on  e,ol          tretreon
t9                       T sn  tA,ec Co  Id                      9re  mwtfarr,,rleo                 tEe naie                       3.6                        2.1                     9
6h                       Taneenia Slloe Co. Ltd.                 ticele tire. A cAnesi             EPopen, ln                      4.0                        4.0                    III                 8                                PIol    i 4reee
9h                      SteameR.  unet tCo  Led.                  tInyeie niece  A nAeae             npante.on                     0.6                        0.5                    I0                  8                                Pn,,lfrn 1m   e 
S9                       Tentacle Snatlinees b'enuR  ltd.    Stationery nenoteotering               tea                             5.5                       5.5                     9                  6                                lno(,Ieo  tent
49                       Tanzan. a Totoerlea Ild                 Tatetey                            Enpannion                       3.4                       3 1                     9                  9                                peoblen 7,-e
67                       Taneanis Tatteriea Ltd.                 Teeterp                            Pnf.ontint                     4.5                        4 0                    10                  8                                  rlelelo   err
27                       T.P:ani,  Tufto A RtoP  Ce.             Nine A rnep  -anuf-ct-riog         Enpacetet                      4.S                        2 1                     8.5                7                                    lro  free
19                       Tcabe Chipb-osed L.d                    tent  ii,Rr prnd.tlon              ten                            0.5                        O0                      0 .3               1                                 o, Ira leer.
I   Il 4ld   Ioleen.a t
92                       TEICO      ben                          Coent nanetaninring                flea                            2. 0                      2.0                     Id 5                                                    Inerlreneniet
62                         LerCol-nthereact entinp.rnen  Corp.    inchIng                           ten                              .                        0 1                    In                 1n                                 lnder lei w ..oeatinO      rr,r 
107                       United C-n.fr,oeinn Co.                 conantrtiet eqlpnnent              N ie                            5 0                       5.0                    II                  5                                Indee inpieneotatin
TOTAL                                                                                                   366.A                      294.9
EAOID
kt=ber 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Status of Problem Projects
(as of June 30, 1977)
Fibreboard Africa Ltd. (Loan No. 20/76)
TIB Loan Outstanding                  Tsh 8 million
% of TIB Portfolio                        3
Arrears on Principal            Tsh 0.4 million
Arrears on Interest             Tsh 1.9 million
Other long-term debt                  Tsh 6 million (from EADB)
This company, which produces fibreboard, commenced operations in mid-1975,
and has been plagued with technical, marketing, financial and management
problems since its inception. The audited accounts for the company for
the year ending December 31, 1976 show a loss of Tsh 4.6 million. This
brings accumulated losses to Tsh 16 million, giving a negative net
worth of Tsh 3 million. NBC has refused to grant the company additional
overdraft facilities, but it has indicated its willingness to reconsider
if sales improve. Collection of accounts receivable is very poor and if
the company is to continue in business, the appointment of a cost
accountant is essential. TIB's last loan financed some balancing
equipment, which is presently under installation. SIDA continues to
provide engineering support. Messrs. Comcroft Services of London have
recently shown interest in acquiring minority shareholding and management
services. A reorganization of the marketing function with a view to
giving the company greater autonomy is under consideration. Prospects
for this company remain uncertain.
Mtibwa Sugar Estates (MSE) Ltd. (Loan No. 11)
TIB  Equity Investment                Tsh 3.5 million
% of Share Capital                        6.4
TIB Loan Outstanding                  Tsh 7 million
% of TIB Loan Portfolio                   2.4
Arrears on Principal            Tsh 1.4 million
Arrears on Interest             Tsh 10 million EADB
Other long-term debt                  Tsh 3 million TDFL
This project never reached capacity operations mainly due to inadequate
cane supply, plant imbalances and lack of spare parts. The company has a
cane acreage of 9,200, which it expects to extend to 9,700 by 1979.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
Plans to have 4,700 acres under irrigation by August 1977 have been
delayed but are expected to be completed shortly. A total sugar production
of 13,000 tons is expected this season. The main problem is still
the ex-factory price of Tsh 2,500 fixed by the Government (which other
sugar factories consider reasonable) as against MSE's cost of production
per ton of Tsh 2,919. The total rehabilitation program recommended by
the Dutch firm of H.V.A. is estimated to cost Tsh 115 million and is
already underway. However only about Tsh 25 million has been provided
for MSE from the 1977/78 Development Budget. Existing accumulated
losses exceed Tsh 35 million. The company is virtually bankrupt
and NBC continues to refuse overdraft facilities. However the
Government has provided Tsh 3.5 million to cover TIB's equity investment
in MSE and the Sugar Development Corporation has decided to convert its
loan into an equity investment. The project has potential for
profitable operations provided it is able to reduce its cost of produc-
tion, increase its capacity utilization and obtain sufficient funds
for the rehabilitation program.
National Cold Chain Operations, Ltd. (Loan No. 10/34)
TIB Loan Outstanding                  Tsh 9.9 million
% of TIB Loan Portfolio                   3.3
Arrears on Principal            Tsh 2.2 million
Arrears on Interest             Tsh 1.4 million
The company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NAFCO, started operations
in 1973. It was designed to transport frozen and refrigerated goods,
especially New Zealand meat to Zambia. However, Zambia started to
use Mozambique to import its requirements and to send its own
refrigerated trucks to Dar es Salaam. While the Government has asked
other parastatal companies handling perishable commodities to place
all their business with NCCO, the project's conception and design are
so deficient that it is very difficult to visualize its survival.
The audited accounts as at December 31, 1975 showed a loss of
Tsh 1.5 million for the year. Accumulated losses at the same date
were Tsh 4.2 million. Its future prospects appear bleak.
National Engineering Co., (NECO) Ltd. (Loan No. 7)
TIB's Equity Investment               Tsh 1 million
% of Share Capital                       33
TIBts Loan Outstanding                Tsh 1.9 million
% of TIB's portfolio                      1
Arrears on Principal            Tsh 0.6 million
Arrears on Interest             Tsh 0.4 million



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
The company manufactures steel structures, tanks and containers. Its
prospects have been improving since the beginning of 1977: Turnover
has increased, thereby strengthening the financial situation of the
company. The two main reasons for this are an improvement in the
business environment in Tanzania and the appointment of well-qualified
experienced people to top management positions under West German
technical assistance.  The continued support of this company by the
West Germans depends on the results of an evaluation to be carried
out in November 1977 by a German firm.  The National Development Corpo-
ration has been directed by the Government to take a majority
shareholding in NECO but as yet has not done so. Currently an evaluation
of the company's share capital is in progress to determine the propor-
tion of shares to be held by each shareholder.
Nyanza Salt Mines (NSM) Ltd. (Loan No. 4/44)
TIB's Loan Outstanding                Tsh 4.5 million
% of TIB Loan Portfolio                   2
Arrears on Interest             Tsh 1.3 million
Other long-term debt                  Tsh 14.2 million(from EADB)
The company produces salt from 8 thermal plant and a solar plant.  The
thermal plant normally operates at full capacity but in the first five
months of 1977 it produced only 4,660 metric tons, a drop of 40%
over the same period in 1976, due to a shortage of wood fuel. There
was no production from the solar plant, January to May being the
off-season for the solar process, High overheads and continuous
breakdowns of the plant have been causing huge losses.  No work is taking
place at a second solar plant at Magumbile, consequently much of the
machinery is corroded and out of order. The Treasury has injected
Tsh 2.6 million for technical corrections to the solar plant design
which has not yet been utilized. TIB granted NSM a moratorium until
1979 on principal repayments and until October 1977 on interest arrears.
Between April and June 1977 NSM teduced its interest arrears to TIB to
Tsh 1.3 million. The financial situation of the company is somewhat
improved; its 1976 draft accounts show a profit before tax and
interest of over Tsh 739,000.  Management requires strengthening,
especially in the financial and technical areas. Prospects for the
profitable operation of this company are reasonable.
Tanzania Navy Beans Ltd. (Loan No. 15/65)
TIB Equity Investment                Tsh 200,000
% of Share Capital                        6.7
TIB Loan Outstanding                 Tsh 9.2 million
% of TIB Portfolio                        3
Arrears on Principal            Tsh 1.9 million
Arrears on Interest             Tsh 0.4 million



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
The company, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the National
Agricultural and Food Corporation, grows, buys, and processes
navy beans for exports. The company has been facing serious production
problems since inception,(low yields, high costs, inadequate storage
facilities and farm machinery, heavy dependence on small outgrowers,
and competition from seed bean growers)and it has not yet developed
adequate capability to market its product. However, recent measures
to improve production and to market the company's products appear
to be bearing fruit inasmuch as the company sold its entire 1976 crop.
Also, the company diversified into other crops, such as sorghum,
seed beans, cranberries and canadian wonders, during the 1976/77 season.
Additional working capital has been provided by the National Bank of
Commerce to enable the company to increase the volume and diversity of
its operations. Preparation of the 1976 financial statements is
likely to be delayed due in fact that the Chief Accountant has tendered
his resignation. Efforts are being made to recruit an expatriate Chief
Accountant to be financed by SIDA. Prospects for the company are
improving and depend largely on an improved yield per acre, and the
success of crops other than navy beans.
EAPID
October 1977



TANZANIA INVESTHENT BANK
List of Equity Portfolio as of June 30, 1977
(Amounts in Shs Million)
Amount                TlB's Share In
COHPANY                                    Economic Activity                   Amount Approved                Paid In               Total Equity 7h                             Remarks
Common Stock
Tanzania Chemical Industries         Chemicals                                 0.4                        0.4                       33
Tanzania Navy Beans Co.              Bean Processing                           0.2                        0.2                       6.7
TDFL                                 Development Bank                         10.0                       10.0                       25
Ndolela Maize Scheme                 Maize Production                          2.0                        -                         -                 Shares not yet iss-ed.
Tanzania Aviation Ltd.               Domestic Air Service                     L.O_                       --
Sub-total                                                   LL.i                       10.6
Preference Shares
National Engineering Co.             Mechanical Workshop                       1.0                        1.0                       33                Cumulative preference shares.
Tanzania Tours Ltd.                  Tourism                                   1.5                        1.5                       43                Interest at 8.57 p.a.
TDFL (Income Notes)                  Development Banking                      15.0                        9                         25                Interest on Tsh 7.9 million is 8.57. p.a.; on
Tah 1.1 million is 874 p.s.
Kigoma llotel                        Hotel                                     0.5                        0.5                       43                Redemption overd-e since June 1976.
Mtibwa Sugar Estates                 Sugar Cultivation                         3.5                        3.5                       6.4               Redemption overdue sin-e  1974.
Tanzania Autoparts                   Auto Part Making                          1.3                        0.5                       18                Interest at 12.5°h p.a.; shares not yet issued.
Quality Garage                       Auto Repair                               0.1                        0.1                       5.0               RedIemption nor later than 1Q82.
Tanzania Aviation Ltd.               Domestic Air Service                      1.0                        -
Afro Cooling Systems Ltd.            Automative Radiator Manufacture           1.0
Sub-total                                                    21&..                      16.1
TOTAL                                                        38.5                       26.7
6Aflctor 1977
c 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



ANNEX 13
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Income Statements
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
Year ending June 30                 1972      1973     1974      1975       1976      1977
REVENUE
Short-Term Investment Income    867        513       522       855      3,211    3,176
Interest Income & Commitment
Fees
-  TIB Portfolio           361    1,291    3,411    9,594        12,596   23,416
-  NBC Portfolio         6,760    5,701    4,537    3,271         2,853       813
Agency Fees & Commission
on Loans                   -        -        -         -          1,087    1,769
Other Income                      -           1       15        87         313      191
Total Revenue            7,988    7,506    8,485   13,807        20,060   29,365
EXPENSES
Salaries & Other Personnel
Expenses                 1,047    1,279    1,776    1,983         2,076    2,663
Depreciation                      125      176       204       229         221      242
Other Administrative
Expenses                   260       646       975    1,156       3,260    2,694
Total Administrative            1,452    2,101    2,955    3,368        5,557    5,599
Expenses
Interest & Commitment
Charges                  4,454    3,469    3,244    3,052         4,876    6,729
Provisions                       -        -          286       884      1,322    2,638
Total Expenses           5,906    5,570    6,485    7,304        11,755   14,966
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES            2,082    1,936    2,000    6,503         8,305   14,399
Income Taxes                         860       801      834    2,979        3,788    7,289
NET PROFIT                         1,222    1,135    1,166    3,523         4,517    7,110
=====  -=====     ==       ==          ==        ==
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 14
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Balance Sheets 1972-1977
(Amounts in Tsh million)
a~~~a
As of June 30                         1972       1973       1974       1975       1976-/    1977 -
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Deposits & Short-term
Investments                  14.7       15.3       23.4       66.8       75.3       114.8
Advances, Prepayments and
Other                         0.1        0.2        0.2        1.0        1.6          3.2
Receivables                        0.8        1.7        3.7       11.6       19.5        24.1
Special Deposit with NBC          26.1      20.3         4.5        0.1        -           1.7
Total Current Assets              41.7       37.5.      32.0       79.5       96.4       143.8
Long-Term Assets
TIB - Loans                        9.1       18.0       54.2      122.2      186.3       300.7
Equity Investments                 1.0        1.8        6.4        6.4        6.9         7.6
Less:  Provisions for Losses    -             -         (0.3)      (1.2)      (2.5)       (5.1)
investment in TDFL
Shares                         -         10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0         10.0
Income Notes                   -          2.5        5.0        7.9         7.9         9.0
NBC Portfolio                     81.4       70.8       46.6       38.1       29.4         6.1
Fixed Assets (Net)                 1.3        1.6        1.9        2.2        2.2         2.1
Total Long-Term Assets            92.8      104.7      123.8      185.6      240.2       330.4
Total Assets                    134.5      142.2       155.9      265.1      336.6       474.2
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                   0.1        0.3        1.2        2.0        5.9         4.9
Tax Payable                        0.9        0.8        0.8        3.1        3.9         7.3
Total Current Liabilities          1.0        1.1        2.0        5.1        9.8        12.2
Long-Term Liabilities
NBC                               81.4       70.8       46.6       38.1       29.4         6.1
Foreign & Other Borrowings         -          5.1       29.2       62.9       90.5       153.5
Total Long-Term Liabilities    81.4          75.9       75.8      101.0      119.9       159.6
Net Worth
Paid-in Capital                   50.0       50.0       50.0       70.0       92.7       100.0
Retained earnings                  2.1        3.2        4.3        7.9       12.4        19.6
Grants                             -         12.0       23.7      81.1      101.8       182.8
Total Net Worth                   52.1      65.2        78.0     159.0      206.9       302.4
Total Liabilities & Net Worth        134.5      142.2      155.9      265.1      336.6       474.2
a! Includes only operations on which TIB bears the risk.
EAPID
Qctober 1977



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Pipeline of Prolects as of June 30, 1977
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
Proposed Financing
PRO 3F CT                             Economic                            New/          Total             TIB             Sponsors           Suppliers       Other              Expected
Activity                        Extension    Projegt Costs         Loan          Contribution         _Credit       Borrowings         Approval Date
1.  Workshop Machine Tools            Machine tool manufacture         New             3,740              3,740            -                                 -                Beyond Au,gust
2.  Tanzania Africa Wire Ltd.         Wire manufacture                 New             2,283              1,232            821                -              230              Beyond A'rguqt
3.  GAsrment Mantifacturers Ltd,      Garment manufacture              Extension       7,300              1,500            800                5,000          -                August 1977
4.  Ubungo Spinning Mill               Spinning                        New           132,000              9,000         46,000               71,000        6,000              August 1977
5.  Siselana Products                                                  New            25,500             15,500         10,000                -              -                Beyond Atigust
6.  Tanzania Carpet Factory           Carpet manufacture               New            17,653              7,653         10,000                -              -                July 1977
7.  Shah Industrles Ltd.                                               Extension       1,420              1,220            200                -              -                July 1977
S.  Molasses Storage Tanks            Molasses storage                 New             4,850              4,850         -                     -              -                Jujly 1977
9.  Brick Tile Manufacture            Brick tile manufacture           New             1,726              1,304.5          421.5              -              -                August 1977
10.  Equipment For Tin Plate           Equipment for tin plate          Extension       2,090              2,090         --                                   -                July 1977
Manufacture                       manufacture
11.  Soft Drink Project                Soft drink manufacture           New            10,000              4,500          5,500                -              -                July 1977
12.  Mkonge Hotel Ltd.                 Tourism                          New            16,250              2,000          6,500                -            7,750              June 1977
504Y,922          104,589.5      250,352.5             76,000       73,980
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 16
page 1 of 2
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Projection Assumptions
Approvals
1.                                   1978       1979       1980       1981      1982
(In Tsh million)
Loans                           242.0      278.0     320.0      368.0      423.0
Equity Investments                2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
Total                     244.0      280.0      322.0      370.0      425.0
Seventy percent of the total loan approvals are for imports.  All equity investments are
in local currency.
Commitments
2.   Total uncommitted approvals amounted to Tsh 273.5 million as of June 30, 1977.  Of this
Tsh 191.4 million are committed in FY78 and the balance of Tsh 82.1 million in FY79.
Thereafter 67% of loans approved are committed in the year of approval and 33% in the
following year. Equity investments are committed in the year of approval.
Disbursements
3.   As of June 30, 1977, undisbursed commitments totalled Tsh 56.8 million.  It is assumed
that this amount will be disbursed in FY78. Thereafter disbursements would follow a
pattern of 20% in the year of commitment; 40% in the second year and 40% in the third
year. Equity investments are disbursed in the year of commitment. In addition Tsh 11.7
million of undisbursed equity investments as of June 30, 1977 will be disbursed 50%
in 1978 and 50% in 1979.
Loan Collections -
4.   For loans committed before June 30, 1977, repayments of principal are based on
actual repayment schedules. It is assumed that new loan commitments have an average
term of 11 years including 3 years grace. Actual repayment schedules apply to loans
on the NBC portfolio.
Debt Repayments
5.   Debt repayments are based on actual amortization schedules, assuming equal annual
principal repayments.
Interest Income
6.   NBC Portfolio:                  Yields based on loan agreements.
TIB Portfolio:                  An annual average yield of 10.0% on outstanding
and 1l10% on all new loans.
Other Income
7.   Commitment fees of 1% on the average undisbursed loan commitments.



ANNEX 16
page 2 of 2
8.     A flat commission of 1% on approved loans.
9.     Annual average yield of 4.25% on short-term investments.
10.     No dividend income during the projection period.  Yield on TDFL income notes
is assumed at 8% per annum.
Interest Costs
11.     NBC Loan:                    Average annual cost of 6-1/4%.
Other Borrowings:           Interest cost on existing loans based on loan agreements.
(See Annex 6). On proposed new borrowings as follows:
KfW: Annual interest cost of 0.75% -
ADB: Annual interest cost of 7.5% on drawn down
balance. Commitment charge of 3/4 of 1% on
undisbursed commitments.
IBRD:  Annual interest cost of 8.0% on drawn down
balance. Commitment charges of 3/4 of 1% on
undisbursed commitments.
Administrative Expenses
12.     An increase of 30% per annum based on 1977 actual.
Salaries and Other Personnel Expenses
13.     An increase of 20% per annum based on 1977 actual.
Provision for Tax
14.     Provision at 45% of net taxable income.  Corporate tax is payable in the
following year.
Provision for Losses
15.     Increases in provisions for losses are 2% of annual disbursements.  Provisions
are not tax deductible in Tanzania and taxable income has been adjusted accordingly.
Accounts Receivable
16.     80% of interest income collected in the same year and 20% in the following year.
Accounts Payable
17.     Assumed to increase by 10% annually.
Fixed Assets
18.     Annual replacement expenditures assumed to equal annual depreciation on existing
assets.
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 1 '
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Forecast of Operations 1978 - 1982
(Tsh Million)
Year ending June 30                      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982
Approvals
Loans
Foreign                          169.4    194.6    224.0    257.6    296.1
Local                             72.6      83.4      96.0    110.4    126.9
Subtotal                         242.0    278.0    320.0    368.0    423.0
Investments                          2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0
Total                              244.0    280.0    322.0    370.0    425.0
Commitments
Loans
Foreign                          247.5    243.7    214.3    246.5    283.4
Local                            106.0    104.4       91.8    105.7    121.4
Subtotal                         353.5    348.1    306.1    352.2    404.8
Investments                          2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0
Total                              355.5    350.1    308.1    354.2    406.8
Disbursements
Loans
Foreign                           89.2    147.6    239.4    232.5    241.0
Local                             38.4      54.9    102.6      99.6    103.3
Subtotal                         127.6    202.5    34-2.0    332.1    344.3
Investments                          7.9       7.9       2.0      2.0       2.0
Total                              135.5    210.4    344.0    334.1    346.3
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 18
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Income Statements (1978-1982)
(Tsh t000)
Year ending June 30                           1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
REVENUE
Interest on ST investments                4,879      5,372      4,709     3,825      5,638
Interest on loans                        33,694    47,340    73,498   100,867   123,599
Commitment fees                           3,113      4,200      3,841     4,042      4,647
Commission fees                           2,420      2,780      3,200     3,680      4,230
Dividend income                             720        720        720        720        720
TOTAL REVENUE                     44,2       60,412    85,969   11           138,834
EXPENSES
Salaries and personnel expenses           3,196      3,835      4,602     5,523      6,627
Other administrative expenses             3,502      4,553     5,918      7,694    10,002
Subtotal                           6,698      8,388    10,520    13,217    16,629
Interest on borrowings                    8,675    11,242    16,332    24,724    37,622
Commitment fees                             500        680      1,303     2,008      2,440
Subtotal                           9 175    ll,922    17,635    26,732    40,062
Depreciation                                132        132        132        132        132
Provisions                                2,710      4,208      6,838      6,643     6,886
TOTAL EXPENSES                    18,715    24,650    35,125    46,724    63,709
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                      26,111    35,762    50,844    66,410    75,125
Provision for income tax                 12,969    17,986    25,956    32,874    36,905
NET PROFIT                                   13,142    17,776    24,888    33,536    38,220
EAPIID
October 1977



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Proiected Balance Sheets (1978-1982)
(Tsh Millions)
As of June 30                                                          1977        197B       1979       1980        1961       1962
Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and short-term investments                                  114.8       96.5       117.0      94.0        133.6      189.2
Other current assets                                              29.0       35.7        38.3      43.7         49.2       53.7
Current maturities of loan portfolio                              44.4       53.0        63.1      123.2       148.5      i69.9
Total Current Assets                                       188.2      185.2        218 4    260.9         331.3      412.8
Long-Term Assets
TIB loan portfolio                                               262.4      337.0       476.4    695.1         878.0   1,053.1
Provisions                                                        (5.1)      (7.8)      (12.0)   (18.8)        (25.4)     (32.3)
Net TIB loans                                                    257.3      329.2       464.4    676.3         852.6   1,020.8
NIBC loan portfolio                                               -          -           -
Equity investments                                                26.6       34.5        42.4       44.4        46.4       48r.4
Fixed assets (net)                                                 2.1        2.1          2.1       2.1         2.1         2.1
Total Long-Term Assets                                     286.0      365.8        508.9     722.8        901.1   1,071.3
TOTAL ASSETS                                               474.2      551.0        727.3    983.7    !>232.4   1 484. L
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
Current Liabilities
Current maturities of term debt                                   11.9       14.5         16.5      24.2        33.0        59.1
Other                                                             12.2       18.4         23.9      32.5        39.4       44.8
Total Current Liabilities                                   23.9        32.9        40.4      56.7         72.4      103.9
NBC Loan                                                          -
Other Long-Term loans                                            147.9      171.9        237.0    334.2        462.7      629.5
Total Liabilities                                          149.0       204.8       277.4    390.9         536.1      733.4
Net Worth
Paid-in capital                                                  100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0
Grants                                                           182.8      213.5        299.4    417.4        488.4       503.6
Retalned earnings                                                 19.6       32.7         50.5      75.4       108.9       147.1
Total Net Worth                                            302.4       346.2       449.9    592.8         697.3      750.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUlTY                                 474.2       551.0       727.3    983.7    1,232.4   1,484.1
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 20
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (1978-1982)
(Tsh '000)
Year ending June 30              1978       1979       1980     1981       1982
SOURCES
Net profit before tax         26,111    35,762    50,844   66,410    75,125
Depreciation                     132        132        132      132        132
Provisions                     2,710      4,208      6,838    6,643      6,886
Funds from operations   28,953    40,102    57,814   73,185    82,143
Loan collections              44,400    53,000    63,072  123,174   148,492
Increase (decrease) in
payables                    490        539       593       652        717
Long-term borrowings          38,513    81,607   121,373  161,535   225,976
Grants                        30,747    85,909   117,999   70,980    15,207
TOTAL SOURCES           143,103   261,157   360,851  429,526   472,535
USES
Loan disbursements           127,600   202,500   341,932  332,156   344,290
Equity investments             7,850      7,850      2,000    2,000      2,000
Loan repayments               11,700    14,500    16,507   24,239    33,046
Tax                            7,300    12,969    17,986   25,956    32,874
Increase (decrease) in
Fixed Assets                 132        132       132       132       132
Receivables                6,739      2,729     5,252    5,474      4,546
TOTAL USES               161,321   240,680   383,809  389,957   416,888
Increase (decrease)
in cash                  (18,218)   20,477   (22,958)  39,569    55,647
EAPID
October 1977



TANZANIA INVESTHENT BANK
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1972-1982)
Actusl                                                                    Prolectod
Year endinA June 30                                                  1972        1973       1974        1975       1976        1977                   1978        1979       1980        1981       l983
A.  Income Statement Items as . of
Average Total Aesets
Gross Income                                                     5.7         5.4        5.7        6.6         6.7         7.3                    8.7        9.4         10.1       10.2        10.2
Financial Expenses                                               3.2         2.5        2.2        1.5         1.6         1.7                    1.8        1.9          1.9         2.2        2.8
Administrative Expenses                                          1.0         I.5        2.0         1.6        1.8         1.4                    1.3        1.3          1.2         1.2        1.2
Cross Profit                                                     1.5         1.4        1.5        3.5         2.8         3.5                    5.1        5.6          5.9        6.0         5.5
Net Earnings                                                     0.9        0.8         0.7         1.7        I.5         1.8                    2.6        2.8          2.9         3.0        2.8
B.  Adminiatrative Expenses as . of
Amount Approved                                                  3.7        3.6         2.6         2.4        3.3         1.8                    2.7        3.0          3.3         3.6        3.9
C.  Selected Income and Cost items
Income from loans as 7. of
Average Loan Portfolio                                           7.8         7.8        8.4         9.9        8.9        10.0                   13.1       13.4         13.7        13.8       13.7
Cost of Debt as % of
Average Long-Term Debt                                           5.1        4.4         4.0         3.5        4.4         4.8                    5.8        5.8          6.2         6.7         7.3
Spread                                                           2.7         3.4        4.4         6.4        4.5         5.2                    7.3        7.6          7.5         7.1        6.4
D.  Net Profit
Net Profit as . of Year-End Networth                             2.5         2.3        2.3         2.2        2.2         2.3                    3.8        4.0          4.2         4.8         5.1
Net Profit an 1 of Average Networth                              2.4         1.9        1.7         3.0        2.5         2.9                    4.0        4.5          4.8         5.2         5.3
E.  Structural Ratios
Long-Term Debt/Equity Bamed on
Outstanding Debts                                                1.6         1.2        1.3         0.6        0.5         0.5                    0.6        0.6          0.7         0.8         1.0
Provisions as % of TIB Loan
and Equity Portfolio                                               0           0        0.5         1.1        1.5         1.7                    2.1         2.3         2.5         2.7         2.9
F. Debt Coverage
Debt Service Coverage (DSC) (Excluding NBC)                      n.a.        n.a.       8.8        15.0        1.4         1.7                    3.9         3.9         4.0         4.6         3.9
EAPID
October 1977



ANNEX 22
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year                                           Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                                at end of Quarter
($ 000's)
1979
December 31, 1978                                                   420
March 31, 1979                                                      840
June 30, 1979                                                    1,260
1980
September 30, 1979                                               2,235
December 31, 1979                                                3,210
March 31, 1980                                                    4,185
June 30, 1980                                                    5,160
1981
September 30, 1980                                               6,570
December 31, 1980                                                7,980
March 31, 1981                                                   9,390
June 30, 1981                                                   10,800
1982
September 30, 1981                                              11,666
December 31, 1981                                               12,532
March 31, 1982                                                  13,398
June 30, 1982                                                   14,265
1983
September 30, 1982                                              14,632
December 31, 1982                                               15,000
EAPID
October 1977



