CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1498 TA
Loan Agreement
(Third TIB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Dated December 28, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1498 TA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a statutory corporation established and operating
under the laws of the United Republic of Tanzania.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Act" means the Tanzania Investment Bank Act, 1970, as
amended from time to time.
(b) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(c) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(d) "Investment Enterprise" reans an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(f) "Prior Loan Agreement" means (A) any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the


﻿-2-
date of this Agreement and (B) any outstanding development credit
agreement between the Guarantor and the Association dated before
the date of this Agreement providing for a development credit to
be relent by the Guarantor to the Borrower, and "Prior Loan" means
any loan or development credit provided for therein.
(g) "Statement of Policy" means the policies set forth in
Chapter IV of the TIB Handbook approved by the Directors of the
Borrower on December 18, 1973, as amended from time to time.
(h) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Invest-
ment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-
loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement.
(i) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the <itstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned  r effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more sibsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
(j) "Tanzanian Shillings" and "TShs" mean the currency of
the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan or
investment to meet the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided,
however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan
or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall have


﻿-3-
been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-
limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized with-
drawals from the Loan Account.
(b) For the purposes of paragrqph (a) above, except as
otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, withdrawals
from the Loan Account shall be authorized by the Bank in respect
of expenditures under a sub-loan or investment:
(i) in a foreign currency for goods procured, or
services supplied from, outside the territories of
tOe Guarantor;
(ii) in Tanzanian Shillings on account of not more than
sixty-five per cent (65%) of the invoiced price for
goods previously imported into the territories of
the Guarantor through normal trade channels;
and
(iii) in Tanzanian Shillings on account of not more than
forty per cent (40%) of the contract price under
civil works and/or construction contracts to be
carried out in the United RepubAic of Tanzania.
(c) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $800,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
of any Prior Loan for such Investment Project or (ii) $7,000,000
equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Bank.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment
to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the invest-
ment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1980.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on January 1 and July 1 in each year. Such
amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the
table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i)
shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval
by the Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a
free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Bor--wer shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wi,e agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan
or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such invest-
ment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the United Republic of Tanzania as will contribute to the
economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists in the financing of specific development projects through
loans to and investments in productive enterprises in the United
Republic of Tanzania, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of
the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act and the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with d%e diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequAte records; (ii) require that: (A) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased


﻿-7-
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare p . ts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (B)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) requireo that: (A) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (B) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; (vi) suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to use the proceeds of
the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Borrower; and (vii)
require the Investment Enterprise to assume any risk of loss
resulting  l"on, Thanges in the rate of exchange between the
currencies usvd 2n its operations relating to the Investment
Project.
(b) The Borrew-L shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent


﻿-8-
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cau&e such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as
security for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or
disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall-be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,


﻿-9-
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
three times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of


﻿- 10 -
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Tanzanian Shillings debt payable
in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevail-
ing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the
purposes of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidia-
ries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves (including grants
received) of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries after excluding
therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests of the
Borrower in any subidiary or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or
any other subidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Tanzanian Shillings) used in its
operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsid-
iaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Act which would
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy which would materially and adversely affect the operations
or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur;
and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of March 28, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Tanzania Investment Bank
P. 0. Box 9373
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                    Telex:
INVESTMENTS                       41295
Dar es Salaam
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 13 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
January 1, 1982                                   150,000
July 1, 1982                                      150,000
January 1, 1983                                   450,000
July 1, 1983                                      450,000
January 1, 1984                                   750,000
July 1, 1984                                      750,000
January 1, 1985                                   750,000
July 1, 1985                                      750,000
January 1, 1986                                   750,000
July 1, 1986                                      750,000
Janaury 1, 1987                                   750,000
July 1, 1987                                      750,000
January 1, 1988                                   750,000
July 1, 1988                                      750,000
January 1, 1989                                   750,000
July 1, 1989                                      750,000
January 1, 1990                                   750,000
July 1, 1990                                      750,000
January 1, 1991                                   750,000
July 1, 1991                                      750,000
January 1, 1992                                   600,000
July 1, 1992                                      600,000
January 1, 1993                                   300,000
July 1, 1993                                      300,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.60%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                       6.85%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount .or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


