Report No. PIC5047
Project Name                   Colombia-Pasto Education Project
Region                         Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     COPA46112
Implementing Agencies          Municipality of San Juan de Pasto
Secretaria de Educacion Municipal (SEM)
Environment Category           C
Contacts                       Mr. Marco Fidel Martinez
Secretary of Education, Secretaria de Educacion
Date Prepared                  April 1997
Board Approval Date            July 1997
Peer Reviewers Juan Prawda, Ward Heneveld
1.      Project objectives: The Project development objectives are to
(i) improve the capacity of schools, education communities and the
municipality to provide effectively their respective education
services and (ii) contribute to the municipality's goal of
improving the quality of education services and student learning in
the territory of the municipality. The objectives will be achieved
by supporting and financing the development of Educational Networks
(Redes Educativas) and the implementation of their education
improvement plans; a short term strategy supporting and financing
Municipal plans to address Basic Unattended Educational Needs
(Necesidades Educativas Basicas Insatisfechas - NEBIs ), such as
provision of basic education materials, urgent school
infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion of access, and
supporting and financing the improvement of the education
management capacity of the SEM.
2.      Project description: The project will include the following
components: NEBIs (Necesidades Educativas Basicas Insatisfechas -
Basic Unattended Educational Needs) - would provide resources
(educational materials, training, civil works, furniture and
equipment) to most of the public schools (grade 0-9) of the
municipal territory; expansion of access - would finance the
construction of new classrooms or the substitution of existing
classrooms in serious state of disrepair, and finance contracts
with non-profit private schools or organizations to provide
education to children of poor neighborhoods and outside the school
system; institutional strengthening - resources (technical
assistance, training and systems development) would be provided to
strengthen the SEM to fully assume the management of the
decentralized sector, and to finance workshops and specific
technical assistance which will promote and guide the early
development of the Redes; Redes - School Networks - 12 Redes, each
comprising about 15 public schools (grades 0-9), would be created
on the basis of geographic contiguity and socio-economic
homogeneity criteria. The school communities of the Redes would



develop and implement their own education development sub-projects
(Planes de Desarrollo de Red - PDRs). These subprojects would be
demand-driven, but would be combined with promotional and technical
assistance efforts to develop institutional capacity as needed.
3.      Project Implementation: The SEM would be responsible for the
overall project coordination as well as the promotion, appraisal,
and ex-post evaluation of the demand-driven investment subprojects.
The Redes, once created, will, through their executive organ, the
Council, be responsible for the implementation of the sub-projects
under the supervision of the SEM.
4.      Project Cost and Financing: Project cost and the financing
plan are to be determined. Current estimates are for a total
project cost of US$12 million, US$4.8 million financed by the
Municipality and the other US$7.8 million through an IBRD Loan.
5.      Environmental Aspects: Because of the small size and
characteristics of the school, community and municipal subprojects,
project implementation is not expected to have negative
environmental effects. The project would be category C.
Contact Point:           Mr. Marco Mantovanelli, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473 9220,
Fax No.: (202) 522 1202
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 2, 1997.
- 2 -



