                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 28193

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (SCL-42420 PPFB-P2990)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.2 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                MUNICIPALITY OF PASTO

                             IN THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                         FOR A

                               PASTO EDUCATION PROJECT




                                       June 4, 2004




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

                                            Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                                         October 8, 1997 = US$ 1.00 = Col$1,244.00
                                         US$ May, 2004 = Col$2,600.00

                                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                            January 1 -        December 31

                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CMU      Country Management Unit
CODHES   Human Rights and Displacement Consultancy (Consultoría para los Derechos Humanos y el Desplazamiento)
CPIs     Pedagogical Circles (Círculos Pedagógicos Institucionales)
DNP      National Department of Planning
FSD      School Management Account (Fondo de Servicios Docentes)
GOC      Government of Colombia
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("World Bank")
ICFES    Colombian Institute for the Development of Higher Education (Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educación
         Superior) (State Test for Secondary Education)
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IEC      Information, Education, and Communication
IFC      International Finance Corporation
JUME     Municipal Education Board (Junta Municipal de Educación)
LCSHD    Human Development Department, Latin America and the Caribbean Region
MIS      Management Information System
MOE      Ministry of Education
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NBF      Non Bank Financing
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NEBIs    Unattended Basic Education Needs (Necesidades Educativas Básicas insatisfechas)
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PDR      Network Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo de Red)
PEI      School Education Project (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
PEM      Municipal education plan (Proyecto educativo municipal)
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
POA      Annual Investment Plan
SA       Special Account
SABER    Achievement Test
SEM      Municipal Education Secretariat (Secretaría de Educación Municipal)
SOE      Statement of Expense
TOR      Terms of Reference
WB       World Bank




                                         Vice President:            David de Ferranti
                                       Country Director             Isabel M. Guerrero
                                         Sector Director            Ana-María Arriagada
                                    Task Team Leader:               Martha Laverde

                                         COLOMBIA
                                   Pasto Education Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              28
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Annex 8. Borrower's comments                                                     44
Annex 9. Endnotes                                                                51
Annex 10. Map                                                                    52

Project ID: P046112                                                  Project Name: Pasto Education Project
Team Leader: Martha Laverde                                          TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pasto Education Project                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-42420; PPFB-P2990
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (40%); Primary education (40%); Central
                            government administration (10%); Tertiary education (5%);
                            Sub-national government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Decentralization (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S); Municipal governance and institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/02/1996                                     Effective: 03/17/1998                03/13/1998
     Appraisal: 05/30/1997                                         MTR: 10/01/2000                  06/11/2000
      Approval: 11/06/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 08/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA/Municipality of Pasto/Pasto Municipal
                                           Education Secretariat (Secretaría de Educación Municipal, SEM)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Andrés Solimano
Sector Director:                Ana Maria Arriagada                            Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:             Martha Laverde                                 Marco Manotvanelli
ICR Primary Author:             Martha Laverde


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
In the early 1990s, the Government of Colombia (GOC) was engaged in an ongoing process of supporting
local government and community management of the education system, yet this decentralization was not
generating expected results since the quality indicators in the education system were still poor and financing
remained centralized. In order to advance the decentralization strategy, the GOC decided to build the
capacity of municipalities to manage the education sector and provide schools with the autonomy and
capacity to plan, implement, and evaluate their own education development efforts. As part of this
strategy, the government supported a pilot program to provide multilateral funds directly to local
governments; one municipality (Pasto) and one department (Antioquia) were selected to participate in this
program.    The Municipality of Pasto is located in the Andean highlands and has a majority urban
population. In the mid-1990s, 40 percent of the population lived with an income below the poverty line and
the school exit exams showed low achievement in comparison with national averages, with particularly high
rates of drop out and repetition.

To help support the GOC's decentralization strategy, the Pasto Education Project was prepared and
approved in November 1997. The specific objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the capacity of
schools, education communities, and the Municipality to provide their respective education services
effectively and in a participatory way; and (b) contribute to the municipality's goal of improving student
learning, school access, and retention rates in the territory of the municipality. The project would support
achievement of these objectives through:

(i)      a short-term strategy that supported and financed Municipal Plans to address Basic Unattended
Educational Needs (Necesidades Educativas Básicas Insatisfechas--NEBIs), such as provision of basic
education materials, urgent school infrastructure rehabilitation, and expansion of access;
(ii)     a set of activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Municipal Education Secretariat (
Secretaría de Educación Municipal--SEM) for coordination in the execution of the project and discharge
of its managerial and advisory role; and
(iii)     a medium- and long-term strategy that supported and financed the development of School
Networks (Redes Educativas) and the implementation of their education improvement plans.

As a pilot, the project also aimed to provide lessons and valuable experiences for the design of a national
strategy to support municipal and departmental investment programs in the framework of education
decentralization. The departmental project designed in Antioquia (Basic Education, loan 4243-CO) in
parallel to this operation, was an integral part of the same learning strategy.        All departments and
municipalities with over 100,000 inhabitants were expected under the law 115 of 1994 to assume
responsibility for the management of sectoral resources, investment planning, and implementation.

The project's main beneficiaries were the school population of the basic cycle (age 3-15) of the
Municipality of Pasto. The project was designed to finance the improvement of the services provided by
the public sector through organization of school networks with the active participation of families and local
communities.

This project responded to the priorities identified by the GOC and the Bank in terms of strengthening the
decentralization strategy in the education sector.      Colombia's Country Assistance Strategies (CASs)
prepared in 1993 and 1997 recognized that the country still showed low and uneven levels of educational
attainment and coverage, primarily in poor and rural communities, adversely affecting development in the
country.     The 1997 CAS placed greater emphasis on successfully implementing Colombia's



                                                     - 2 -

decentralization and community participation policies. In the education sector, the focus was on expanding
access and improving quality through education services provided at the municipal level, with increased
school autonomy and greater community and private sector participation. When education responsibilities
are transferred to the departments and municipalities, decision-making at the local level can more
accurately reflect the needs of users, adequately attend to regional diversities, and also increase
accountability. As one of the two pilot projects testing decentralization strategies at the departmental and
municipal levels, the project was intended to provide decentralization design and implementation lessons
from the ground-up as input into the national decentralization strengthening strategy.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised. However, as a result of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) carried out
in June 2000 and the Quality Enhancement Review held in March 2001, some of the subcomponents were
modified to reflect the evolution of the development priorities at the local-level and accelerate project
implementation (see Section 3.4).

3.3 Original Components:
Total project costs were estimated at US$12.0 million, financed with a US$7.2 million IBRD Loan and
US$4.8 million in counterpart funding from the Municipality of Pasto. These costs were divided among
three components and several subcomponents:

Project Component 1--Basic Unattended Educational Needs (NEBIs): estimated US$6.7 million -
actual US$5.6 million. The objective of the component was to provide public schools of the basic cycle
(grade 0-9) a minimal level of educational materials (classroom libraries, pedagogical support material, and
teaching tool kits), teacher training on the use of those materials, and urgent infrastructure rehabilitation. In
addition, the component was intended to finance the expansion of school access through the construction of
new classrooms, the replacement of classrooms in serious state of disrepair, and contracts with nonprofit
institutions. The financing of the above activities was regarded as an incentive to schools and communities
for the development of the school networks (redes). Priority was to be given to this component during the
first two years of the project. The project planned to use resources primarily to finance activities in those
schools with the highest levels of need, as determined by the study on "Infrastructure Needs of the
Municipality's Public Establishments" carried out by the Municipality in 1996.

Subcomponent 1.1 Strengthening of PEIs (Institutional Education Projects): The General Law on
Education (115/1994) identifies the school as the main organizational focus of the education sector and the
PEI as the instrument through which schools can develop new pedagogical, administrative, and
participatory strategies. During project design, the team was aware of the need to strongly support rural
schools, especially in the area of PEI development. In addition, the subcomponent promoted the creation of
Pedagogical Circles (CPIs--Circulos Pedagógicos Institucionales) in each public school.                 Teacher
working groups would met periodically to discuss and develop the pedagogical proposal to be included in
the PEIs and to follow their implementation.

Subcomponent 1.2 Educational Materials: The subcomponent financed classroom libraries, teaching tool
kits, pedagogical support materials and teacher training on the use and maintenance of the materials. A
preparatory study demonstrated that more than 60 percent of public schools for the basic cycle lacked a
minimum level of educational materials and teaching aids.

Subcomponent 1.3 School Rehabilitation: This subcomponent would seek to ensure student safety and
sanitation, and was focused on rural and peri-urban areas. It was expected that a total of 136 schools
overall (44 urban and 92 rural) would benefit from the program. It was also anticipated that numerous



                                                      - 3 -

smaller interventions (e.g., fencing walls) would be completed by the local communities with material and
equipment provided by project. The project also sought to finance the purchase of 5,000 new student
desks. It was expected that the PDRs (Network Development Plans) prepared by the school networks
would integrate this subcomponent by financing school infrastructure and furniture maintenance programs.

Subcomponent 1.4 Increased School Access: This subcomponent would finance the expansion of school
access through: (i) the replacement of existing classrooms in serious state of disrepair; (ii) the construction
of new classrooms; and (iii) the signing of contracts with nonprofit private schools. The proposed activities
aimed at increasing access to basic education in the public sector, particularly where there were serious
bottlenecks (grades 0-6), to compensate for rapid school population growth.

Regarding school access, the subcomponent proposed expansion to a total of 75 classrooms in pre-school
and primary level institutions. For technically uncomplicated classroom expansions, the municipality would
transfer the amount of money (under a standard legal agreement) for materials and construction services to
a school management account (Fondo de Servicios Docentes). The school community would contract out
the construction services directly. Often the community itself would complete the work. The Civil Works
Secretariat of the Municipality would provide technical analysis and supervision. Through this strategy,
the project anticipated completing 85 lower-cycle classrooms with a capacity of about 30 children each.

Project Component 2--Institutional Strengthening: estimated US $2.4 million - actual US$2.1 million.
The component entailed: (i) strengthening the capacity of the SEM to coordinate the project, and at the
same time strengthening both its managerial and its advisory roles in the promotion of educational
networks; (ii) promoting the consolidation of an efficient Education Information System as a management
tool; and (iii) strengthening the administrative capacity of the various actors who co-manage the networks
(i.e., the principals, teachers, students and parents of the School Self-Government Associations, the
directors of the Nucleus and the members of the Network Councils).               Specific institution-building
interventions included technical assistance, workshops, studies, and training activities, in addition to office
improvements and equipment upgrading.

As it constituted an overall information, education and communication (IEC) strategy, the project proposed
financing promotional activities, community participation programs, participatory monitoring, and
dissemination of project outcomes.

Project Component 3-­School Networks: estimated US$2.9 million-actual US$3.2 million. The idea of
school networks in Pasto was developed by the SEM on the basis of what a number of schools and
communities had spontaneously begun to do in practice. Faced with institutional and financial weaknesses,
some educational communities in the area began to operate as networks, sharing information, pedagogical
innovations, and the use of physical plants, exchanging teachers, and organizing collective teacher training
or recreational events. On the basis of these positive experiences, the SEM proposed the Network (Red) as
the main method for involving the community in the management of the education sector in Pasto.

The component proposed to finance training and promotional and institutional development activities aimed
at creating School Networks in the Municipality. In additional, the component considered financing the
preparation of Network Development Plans (Planes de Desarrollo de Red--PDRs) by the networks with
the participation of teachers, school governments, students, and parents' associations. These subprojects
would be demand-driven, with the support of promotional and technical assistance to help build
institutional capacity as needed.     The PDRs intended to promote school improvements, pedagogical
innovations, better school management, and community participation.             In this context, the School
Improvement Plans serve as inputs to the Network Projects (PDRs).


                                                    - 4 -

Each School Network (Red Educativa) would be comprised of about 15 public schools (grade cycle 0-11)
and would be identified on the basis of its contiguousness and socioeconomic homogeneity across
territories.   The expected benefits of this strategy included: (a) the strengthening of the education
community within the schools of a Network through interaction, self-training, and the exchange of
pedagogical experiences and innovations; (b) increased parent and private sector participation; and (c)
guaranteed availability of a complete basic education cycle for Network students.

Development of the Networks

Three stages of development were envisaged for the Networks. The first phase would be for Network
promotion, public awareness and train delegates from various associations. Delegates would make up the
Network Assembly, considered the executive body in charge of coordinating the network activities, and of
electing a legal representative of the network, the Network Coordinator (Coordinador de Red). The
assembly would assist the Councilto represent the thematic areas of analysis of the PEIs and PDRs.

The second phase was designed to strengthen the Networks' legal framework and prepare the PDR for its
approval by the SEM. The municipality, through the SEM, would open a special bank account in each
Network (Network account) into which funds would be transferred to operate the network and finance the
PDRs. The network would prepare a PDR in a participatory manner in accordance with pre-established
guidelines included in the Operational Manuals. A committee of the SEM would evaluate the quality and
eligibility of the PDR, and technical assistance would be provided.

Finally, the third phase would include the financing of the annual implementation plans of the PDRs and an
impact evaluation of five pilot networks (two urban and three rural) where school networks were already
spontaneously in operation. The network system would then be expanded to include seven additional
networks.

Each network is overseen by a council which approves the three-year action plan and the budget. The
network coordination unit implements the action plan and manages the network account to which the
project funds are transferred.

PDRs

PDRs are triennial development plans prepared and implemented through annual implementation
programs by the Networks. Each PDR and the related Annual Implementation Plans (POAs)
would be evaluated by a committee of the SEM to ensure quality and conformity with project
objectives and guidelines. A ceiling on the financing for each network was to be established on
the basis of a formula that applies different weights to rural and urban areas and to the size of the
schools in the network. Networks with larger student populations and those in rural areas would
receive comparatively more funds per student. Eligible expenditures and quality criteria for the
financing of the PDRs were stipulated in the PAD.

3.4 Revised Components:
During implementation, by request of the Municipality of Pasto and in agreement with the Bank there were
some adjustments in the components and implementation arrangements which resulted in four amendments
of the Loan Agreement. These changes did not affect the original objectives.




                                                    - 5 -

Based on the Mid-Term Review and the QER Panel, some of the subcomponents were revised, but the
basic structure of the components was unchanged. These changes were formalized in an Amendment to the
Loan Agreement dated June 8, 2001. At that time, slow disbursements were a significant issue. It should
be mentioned as a follow up to the mid-term evaluation, an innovative form of QER was carried out. For
the first time in a Bank QER, the counterpart team was invited to participate together with the Bank
supervision team. This approach had a very positive impact in terms of acceptance and ownership of the
agreed changes. The QER Panel recognized the difficult conditions that surrounded the implementation of
the project and recommended that the school should be the focus of all project activities. The panel also
suggested that the following three guiding principles be applied to all levels of project administration: (i)
selectivity; (ii) simplicity; and (iii) flexibility.

The main adjustments in the subcomponents included at that time were as follows: (i) ten schools
constructed (instead of five) to replace run-down schools with safety problems; and (ii) authorization to
constitute at least 12 networks (instead of 12 only); (iii) extend the duration of the project; (iv) modify the
percentage of counterpart funds from 40-60 to 30-70; (v) reallocation of the loan categories and (vi)
introduce new investment categories in order to provide incentive to the teachers participating in project
implementation.

                 Table 1: Project's Amendments Summary: Relevant changes and its justification
       Amendments                         Change                       Justification                Date
 Table of paragraph 1 of       Introduced salary             To remunerate teachers         First: June 18, 1998
 Schedule 1, reallocating      incentives in the form of a   working full time for the
 US$500,000 from the           salary supplement to be       project.
 Unallocated category.         paid by the borrower to
 Category 5 is renamed         those teachers who work
 as category 5A and a          temporarily as staff of the
 new category 5B "salary SEM
 incentives" is created
 with an allocation of
 US$ 100,000
(a)Date in Section 2.03 of (a) Extension of the              Better utilization of Loan     Second: August 14,
the Loan Agreement is          closing date (b)              Procedures.                    2001
changed to June 30 2003        reallocation of the loan
(b) Paragraph 1 of             categories and (c)            The adjustments aims to
Schedule 1.                    modification of some          facilitate implementation
(c) Adjustments in project targets of civil works. In        considering the characteristics
implementation set in          Part B1 inclusion of school of the project environment.
Schedule 2                     principals in lieu of school
                               leaders.
                              In Part C1 the number of
                              Redes is not limited to 12.
 Paragraph 1 of Schedule Reallocation of the loanBetter utilization of Loan                 Third: March 14,
                              categories                     Proceeds                       2003
 Date in Section 2.03 of       Extension of the closing To allow the completion of          Fourth:   June   30,
 the Loan Agreement is         date                          some procurement process       2003
 postponed to August 31,                                     (computers and furniture
 2003                                                        purchase for schools).




                                                        - 6 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR rating: Satisfactory

The quality at entry is considered satisfactory since the objectives were appropriate to the challenges in the
sector, the project was designed to address the main issues in the municipality, and it incorporated best
practice models. There was not a formal Quality at Entry review at the time of project preparation and
appraisal; this report follows Bank Assurance Group standards.

The project objectives, which focused on decentralization and community participation in policy
formulation, were highly consistent with the CAS and government priorities. Bank safeguards policies
were adequately addressed. Various evaluations have emphasized that the project's main strength lies in its
adequate design, specifically in its technical aspects.

The greatest design strengths were, first, focusing actions on the school, which enhanced autonomy and
empowerment. Second, there was a careful analysis of the Colombian legal framework, particularly as it
related to the municipalities' authority for administering local education services. This made it possible for
the project to maintain the actions planned throughout the implementation phase despite the continuous
changes in the regulatory environment of the education sector.

It is now evident that there was openness to and acceptance of innovation during the preparation phase.
The school network proposal required major efforts to be accepted at first. The feasibility of this proposal
was approached from the legal standpoint, with respect to the trends toward decentralization in Colombia
and particularly in the education sector, as well as from the standpoint of its financial viability. The
proposal was justified by its multiple potential benefits.

The project design was supported by the following preparatory studies (i) study of municipal zoning to
support the development of the school networks; (ii) study of the infrastructure requirements of the
municipality schools; and (iii) four economic studies: Analysis of Indebtedness Capacity of the
Municipality; Analysis of Sectoral Resources; Fiscal Impact Study; and Project Economic Evaluation
Study; and (iv) study of the Municipality's institutional capacity, including that of the Education
Secretariat and the schools.

In addition, there were visits during preparation to Ecuador to observe and analyze educational
organization models similar to the school network proposal. There were also consultations with various
participants in the education community to enable them to show their interest in and commitment to
improving education and verify the required levels of community participation.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified the following risks as the main threats to project
implementation: (i) extreme social violence that could affect community participation; (ii) a possible
teachers' strike; (iii) changes in municipal administration; (iv) changes in the municipal fiscal situation and
lack of counterpart funds; (v) changes in school administration; (vi) stronger school networks reaping
greater benefits than weaker ones; (vii) having a lead school within the network dominate pooled resources;
(viii) subprojects (PDRs) concentrating their investment proposals in infrastructure activities; (ix)
opposition from Nucleus Directors (Núcleos); (x) politicization of subprojects, infrastructure strategy, and
media campaigns; and (xi) delays in disbursements and procurement procedures.

The risks defined during project preparation were present in various degrees throughout the entire project
life cycle. In the course of project implementation, it was possible to define mitigating actions to address
them and minimize their negative impact. However, owing to the resistance of Nucleus Directors (ix-


                                                      - 7 -

above) to the School Network structure, the actions taken were not sufficiently strong to minimize the
negative impact this had on developing the networks further (see Section 3- School Networks). During the
implementation stage, there was also a significant increase in the displacement of population groups from
other departments in reaction to the high level of violence.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the project achievements exceeded the initial targets, even though project execution occurred
during a period of generalized economic and social crisis in Colombia, mainly due to the large numbers of
displaced persons arriving in the Municipality of Pasto due to violence in the area. The project met its
development objectives due to an efficient interconnection of the technical, administrative, and financial
aspects of the project. Also, actions were focused at the school level and in the education community, with
the SEM serving as the guiding entity that was responsible for education in the municipality.

In 1998, Pasto, (the capital of the Department of Nariño), was the first municipality to be certified1 (See
endnotes Annex 9). Certification is an administrative procedure which grants autonomy and resources to
the Mayor's office to manage education autonomously in the country, after making great efforts and
overcoming political obstacles in the implementation of the new decentralization policy. The support of the
Bank was decisive and its intervention was characterized by a great degree of flexibility since the Bank
played a mediation role among some of the national and departmental institutions involved in the
certification process.

The Department of Nariño delegated teacher payroll to the municipal authorities in 1999 and the
management of the situado fiscal (resources for education transferred from the national government) at the
end of 2000. Under these circumstances, the project was crucial to enable the municipality to operate in a
more autonomous manner and manage the provision of education services in a decentralized and
participatory fashion.

The main benefits of the project were: (i) strengthened decentralization; (ii) enhanced management capacity
at the SEM; (iii) abandonment of the traditional approach to managing investment in the education sector
through a broad participatory process for both planning and execution; (iv) changed attitudes and a
commitment to education by the administration and citizens; (v) improved quality of education in terms of
school environment, educational material, teaching-learning processes and the active participation of the
education community; and (vi) improved coverage.

An evaluation study by the University of the Andes, Economics Department, Center for Economic
                      2


Development Research (CEDE), "Document Assessing the Results and Impact of Projects to Improve
Educational Quality in Antioquia and Pasto," Document 1, "Results for the Municipality of Pasto,"
November 2003 concluded that project implementation was satisfactory for the following reasons: (i)
compliance with the objectives of the project and completion of the targets of each of its components; (ii)
project's relevance to the Country Assistance Strategy; (iii) efficiency of investment; (iv) positive
perception of the project by the community in the Pasto Municipality; (v) sustainability of the actions
taken; and (vi) usefulness of the lessons learned from the project as a pilot experiment.

The Municipality of Pasto is receiving the largest number of displaced persons from the southern area of
the country because of violence. As a result, it has had the highest population growth rate in the country in



                                                     - 8 -

the past four years: 2.1 percent a year, compared to the national average of 1.8 percent. These increases
did affect project implementation, but the Bank-financed project was critical in helping the Municipality
absorb the increased school population.

Project execution was carried out during a period of continual and radical changes in the regulations
governing the education sector. The most significant of these was Law 715 of 2001, which the teachers'
union rejected violently, involving parents in their actions, because it implied a threat to the union
(qualification examination for new teachers and pay increases linked to performance evaluation).
Moreover, the teachers blamed the Bank for the changes in budget transfers from the national government
to the local governments, as stipulated in the decentralization law. The strong reactions temporarily halted
project implementation.

Improving student learning: During project execution, two SABER achievement tests were conducted.
The first, for the 1998-99 period, was comprehensive (100 percent) for public schools, while the 2003 test
was comprehensive for both the public and private sectors. The tests evaluated mathematics and language
skills in four grades: 3rd, 5th, 7th, and 9th.

A comparison of the test results reveals a substantial improvement in educational quality for the four
grades in the public sector, significantly exceeding the project's 5 percent increase target. In both tests, the
results were above the national average and showed better performance in the language skills area.

Table 2 below shows the change in the performance of the students reaching level D, with the greatest
complexity.

                   Table 2: Percentage of Public Sector Students Achieving Level D
                                        SABER 98-99 and SABER 03
            Mathematics                 Percentage of students achieving or exceeding the level
                                         3                 5                   7               9
            Achievement                    2002-             2002-                2002-           2002-
                level             97-98    2003     97-98    2003       97-98     2003    97-98   2003
                 D                16.6     41.6      24.4      39         2.4      13      1.8      18
             Language                   Percentage of students achieving or exceeding the level
                                         3                 5                   7               9
            Achievement                    2002-             2002-                2002-           2002-
                level             97-98    2003     97-98    2003       97-98     2003    97-98   2003
                 D                41.7      23        7.9      66        14.7      41     21.0      40
      Source: University of the Andes, Economics Department, Center for Economic Development Research
      (CEDE), "Document Assessing the Results and Impact of Projects to Improve Educational Quality in
      Antioquia and Pasto," Document 1, "Results for the Municipality of Pasto," November 2003.


There has been improvement in both: mathematics and language, but with a greater percentage increase in
mathematics. The characteristics and use of educational materials contributed to these achievements. In
mathematics, the approach was convivial and based on game-playing, making it possible to achieve an
understanding of abstract concepts through games and thereby facilitating learning.                    In addition, a
consultant in School Management and Instruction in Mathematics was hired to work with 50 teachers in 34
new schools (81 percent of all schools) on instruction in mathematics. This coaching led to useful
curriculum revisions.

In terms of equity of educational opportunity, the rural sector made the greatest gains. The rural school
networks that had shown the lowest level of performance in 1997 improved significantly, contributing to



                                                          - 9 -

bridging the gap between urban and rural schools. This progress is explained primarily by: (i) the coaching
provided to rural institutions by the University of Pamplona in the use of the Escuela Nueva (New School)
methodology, which aims at simultaneously enhancing performance in mathematics and language skills; (ii)
the Rural PEIs which enhance awareness of the productive activities of the region among the students and
use it to make the learning experience more relevant; and (iii) the major improvement in school
environments (infrastructure, equipment, and teaching materials) provided by the project.

A multigrade analysis of the tests shows that one of the most important factors involved in cognitive
achievement is the school environment (management, physical and material resources, and infrastructure).
Thirty-four percent of the change in mathematics and 23 percent of the change in language skills are
attributed to this factor.

Improving school access and student retention in Basic Education:

The public sector showed a growth of 7,284 students during the 1998-2003 period, whereas enrollment in
private schools increased by 4,393 students. The public sector increased its share of education coverage by
eight percent (from 78.8 percent to 85.1 percent). This is attributable to: (i) the general economic crisis
affecting the country, which limited families' ability to pay for a private education; (ii) the problem of
population displacement in the Municipality of Pasto due to violence; and (iii) the improvement in the
public sector educational supply in terms of infrastructure and quality as perceived by parents. These
factors resulted in a significant movement of students to the public sector in the municipality.

By educational level, the increase of student places in public schools represented a growth of 28 percent at
the pre-school education level, 5 percent in primary school, 16 percent in basic secondary school and 9
percent in upper secondary school. The relative share of rural enrollment grew by 4.3 percent, from 14.0
percent (1997-1998) to 14.6 percent (2001-2002). The evolution of the net and gross enrollment ratios is
shown in Table 3.

      Table 3 ­ Changes in net and gross enrollment ratios between 1997-98 and 2001-02
                                Net enrollment (%)             Gross enrollment (%)
                           1997-1998      2001-2002      1997-1998        2001-2002
     Preschool                      31.1           33.4            34.9                37.4
     Primary                        72.7           90.2            82.0                113
     Secondary                      44.4             66            71.5                88.7


In terms of coverage, the project met its original targets. The number of additional places offered was
almost twice the planned level. The change in the rate of primary school coverage was almost three times
higher and, for almost all educational levels, new registration grew at an annual rate exceeding population
growth in the corresponding age group. Only in upper secondary school did the population increase more
rapidly than enrollment, while in basic secondary school the growth in the coverage ratio was slightly below
the planned level. In general, coverage increased at the school levels that required it most. The increase
also contributed to more equitable coverage, as it was greater at the pre-school level and in rural areas.

The low improvement in the net enrollment rate is mainly linked to the phenomenon of population
displacement as a result of high levels of violence. Displacement increases the incidence of overage
students.   Students arrive at various moments in the school year, the majority of them are from
disadvantaged areas, they lack documentation showing that they have passed earlier grades, and they lack
the necessary preparation. All these factors explain the rise in the repetition rate from 3.5 percent to 4.2
percent, and of the dropout rate from 4.4 percent to 5.2 percent.



                                                    - 10 -

Building and strengthening educational and institutional management capacity: The pedagogical
management was improved through a combination of measures, including focusing on meeting basic
educational needs, increasing the participation of educational communities, and strengthening the SEM. In
the pedagogical area, actions were focused on improvement in the design and ownership of the PEI,
teacher and supervisor training, and the provision of educational media and materials. In the search for
greater participation by the education community, the school networks supported school autonomy through
the development of PDRs with participatory processes, organization, and training of the education
community. Autonomy was also promoted in the financial area, including in managing the funds for
teaching services. For its part, the SEM was positioned as the entity responsible for education in Pasto and
it has now acquired the technical and logistical resources and trained staff required to manage educational
quality. Its efforts to put in practice a culture of planning, management, and administration for improved
interaction in the sector have been recognized.

The School Network approach was innovative in improving efficiency in the use and application of
resources. Regarding the integration of pre-school, primary and secondary levels into comprehensive
schools that offer students the full educational cycle, Pasto served as a reference point for the formulation
of Law 715 of 2001.33 Law 715 of 20013. From 1999 until a few months before the promulgation of that
law in 2001, many groups from the MOE and DNP visited the Municipality of Pasto to learn about its
strategy and to confirm that it was working and could be scaled up.

With respect to educational statistics, by the end of the project, the SEM was able to use the new education
information system for the municipality in an autonomous manner. To achieve that result, it had to
overcome numerous obstacles, including changes in the territorial configuration of Pasto, which distorted
the number of children enrolled.

Regarding NEBIs, the project was crucial in changing the school environment as an input and key indicator
for improving the quality of education, both in terms of instructional materials and infrastructure. The
municipality now has more suitable academic environments, with appropriate physical spaces for
interaction, pedagogical tools, and proper teaching materials. This upgraded the image of public education
in the municipality improved relationships among the various parties involved, and made it possible to
improve education services and thereby increase the academic performance of students.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Basic Unattended Educational Needs (NEBIs) (US$6.7 million PAD, US$5.6 million
actual)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Subcomponent 1.1: Strengthening of PEIs (School Educational Projects)

When the project launched, the majority of Pasto's schools had PEIs, in response to the requirement of Law
115, but they did not meet the needs of the education community or reflect the desiderata for education in
the schools. These PEIs were inactive and most had been prepared by outside consultants.

The expected target was that all schools in the municipality would have a PEI developed in a participatory
manner, that it would be regularly updated and would spell out the pedagogical content and the mission and
vision of the school and give the education community a planning instrument to guide its activities in the
short and medium terms.



                                                     - 11 -

Under the school network strategy, 287 schools--191 of them public (77 percent) and 96 private--received
support in updating and revising their PEIs. All key members of the education community participated in
the revision of the PEIs. This process facilitated and enhanced institutional autonomy and capacity to
govern curricular, pedagogical, and evaluation practices.           The PEIs were crucial for identifying
institutional improvement projects, and for preparing the school budgets for accessing project resources.
The rural PEIs enabled the schools to tie into "productive projects," thus promoting community
participation and enhancing relevance.

In response to the provision of Law 715 of 2001 on the reorganization of the education sector, during 2002,
the Municipality of Pasto established 42 new schools (32 in urban areas and 10 in rural areas). All have
prepared their first PEI and are preparing the next one in a participatory manner.

The revision of the PEIs began in 2000 with the delivery of 1,000 sets of three self-instructional modules.
Distribution of the material was accompanied by self-training in eighty (80) Pedagogical Circles (CPIs).
The project evaluation study highlighted the following outcomes: (i) the teachers state that they are familiar
with the PEIs for their institutions, they participated in its drafting, and are now engaged in its revision
(updating).    They are also satisfied with and committed to implementing the guidelines; (ii) parents
indicated that although their participation in the preparation and revision of the education projects was
limited, their commitment to implementation of the guidelines is very high; (iii) among students, the
understanding of the PEI is limited, as is participation in its preparation and revision, with some
exceptions; and (iv) the School Network Coordinators are the only ones indicating that the PEIs still do not
have sufficient capacity to bring about pedagogical changes, except in some cases. While the self-training
was participatory, bringing together all the teachers, it is acknowledged that it could have benefited from
greater external input necessary to provide enhanced reflection and analysis on a topic of such importance
where there was no prior experience.

Subcomponent 1.2 Educational Materials: During project preparation, it was determined that more than
60 percent of the public schools suffered from shortages of teaching materials and the few that existed were
not adequately used.

Particular focus was placed on the mechanism used for the selection of educational material. This made it
possible, for the first time in the history of the municipality, for all players in the education community to
participate actively. In the first phase, all the schools were visited in order to identify their needs. Later,
workshops were held with principals, teachers, and parents, in order to assess the relevance of the
proposals made and agree on priorities. At the conclusion of this stage, procurement was delegated to the
SEM. The firms selected handled the training of 2,380 principals and teachers.




                                                     - 12 -

                           Table 4- Instructional Material- Implementation Indicators
                     Item           Project Target       Actual               Comments
                                                     End-of-Project
               School Libraries         1,080             1,727     The achievement of targets
               Instructional tool       1,080             1,232     beyond the initial plans
               kits                                                 reflects the efficient financial
               Musical kits               0                180      management of the SEM and
               Computer and               0               1,938     the favorable exchange rate.
               audiovisual
               equipment

The delivery of learning resources was assessed as timely and generous (see Table 4). For 2000, the target
for classroom libraries was exceeded by 60 percent. The plan called for 1,080 libraries, and 1,727 libraries
were delivered, corresponding to an average of nine for every public school.

Other teaching resources delivered by the project include 1,232 instructional tool kits, of which 374 were
for the rural sector and 858 for the urban schools. Distribution also included 180 musical kits, consisting
of four percussion instruments, three wind instruments, and two string instruments. The schools received
1,938 items of computer and audiovisual equipment, 10 computer rooms were fully equipped, as were 4
laboratories for chemistry, physics, and biology.

The 191 public schools received educational grants. The rural networks received special emphasis, with an
average investment of Col$43,000 (about US $17) per student, while the same figure for the urban schools
was only Col$16,400 (about US $6.5).

The project evaluation recognized the positive impact of the instructional resources. The schools indicated
that the material provided was highly satisfactory and consistent with the curriculum. Unfortunately, there
were shortcomings in the development of pedagogical resources by the teachers themselves. But when the
teachers actually developed instructional resources, there was great potential for replication.

Subcomponent 1.3: School Rehabilitation

The civil works financed under the project were focused in rural areas and semi-urban areas. The criteria
for prioritization were student safety, environmental rehabilitation, and providing surroundings conducive
to learning. The aim was to improve school surroundings by resolving problems of cleanliness, deteriorated
classrooms, insufficient furniture, limited recreational space, deficient amenities and inadequate or
inexistent bathrooms, among others. The implementation indicators are detailed in Table 5 below.




                                                    - 13 -

                            Table 5- Civil Works- Implementation Indicators
                                                   Project Target          Actual
                                                                       End-of-Project
               Classrooms
               New Classrooms                           75                  138
               Classrooms Replacement                   42                   92
               Classrooms Rehabilitation                 -                   15
               Total Classrooms                        117                  245
               Other civil works
               New School Construction                   2                    1
               School Rehabilitation                     5                   17
               Sanitary installations remodeled          0                  102
               Minor remodeling works                  136                  310
               Total other civil works                 143                  571


Of the Municipality's present total school infrastructure of 2,419 classrooms, 10 percent have been
provided by the project. Assuming an average of 32 students per classroom for the public schools
operating on a single shift, these classrooms provide improved learning conditions for 7,840 public school
students.

Approximately 43.3 percent of civil works investments were made in the rural areas and benefited 15
percent of the student population, further evidence of the project's focus on equity with a view to narrowing
the gap between urban and rural areas.

School rehabilitation, improvement in pedagogical practices and the delivery of relevant instructional
material together contribute to making a better school environment, which leads to improved educational
quality, as evidenced by the significant progress made by the students from rural areas in their achievement
test results.

All the NEBI works were carried out under school management accounts (Fondos de Servicios Docentes).
The principals administered the resources with assistance from the education community. Management of
the resources was monitored and controlled by the school governing body, the SEM civil works engineers,
and the Municipal Comptroller's Office. This experience with financial administration strengthened school
management and laid the groundwork for authorizing the transfer of resources to the schools, which is now
done by means of an administrative act. Actually these funds are specifically intended for the improvement
of school surroundings.

The participation of parents and the education community was not limited to oversight, as they also
co-financed works both with financial contributions and with donated labor, which unfortunately was not
assigned a monetary value. Community labor was provided through mingas, especially in rural areas, and
partially explains why the targets for civil works were exceeded.




                                                    - 14 -

                      Table 6- School Furniture- Implementation Indicators
                                                           Project      Actual
                                                            Target  End-of-Project
              Student desks                                 5.000        9,273
              Student chairs                                  -          8,685
              Classroom libraries shelves                     -          1,727
              Desks                                           -           940
              Chairs desks                                    -           982
              Other furniture: multi-use tables, filing       -           467
              cabinets and mini-theatres
              Total                                           -         22,074


Table 6 shows that more school furniture than planned was purchased, which attests to the project's
positive impact in terms of improvement of the learning environment.

Subcomponent 1.4 Increased School Access

In order to broaden coverage without affecting educational quality, 1,220 students were sent to private
schools as compared to a target of 780. The agreements were reached with non-profit entities, 18 urban
private schools and 2 rural ones. The majority of the contracts benefited young people with a high degree
of social vulnerability, such as street children, out-of-school youth and displaced persons, in a proportion of
9 to 1, thereby ensuring the continuity of their education. The Tutorial Learning System (Sistema de
Aprendizaje Tutorial--SAT) benefited 160 rural sector students over the age of 17 to enable them to
complete secondary school.

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening (US$ 2.4 million PAD, US$ 2.1 million actual)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The aim of the institutional strengthening subcomponent was primarily to address the weak management
and planning capacity of the SEM and to decentralize its administrative tasks via the Schools Networks, in
accordance with the competencies established by the General Law on Education (Law 115 of 1994).

Subcomponent 2.1 Strengthening of the Education Secretariat

During the project, two restructuring operations were carried out in the SEM. However, largely owing to
the lack of political will, especially at the Municipal Council level, no major advances were achieved in the
pedagogical sphere.       Yet, it is acknowledged that the current structure strengthens the planning,
supervision, and management processes and promotes an improved organizational climate, making the
SME more efficient in serving users.

The restructuring resulted in an important change from a situation with a minimum level of staffing, mostly
seconded teachers with no planning vision and an inadequate budget for projects to improve educational
quality, toward a more functional model.            The present organization entails one secretary and three
sub-secretaries, with their own staff and an Educational Development Plan to guide activities. Each
sub-secretary and subunit has well-identified functions; administrative procedures are carried out in
accordance with manuals and regulations for the areas concerned.




                                                       - 15 -

Coordination between the SEM and the schools has been optimized by making procedures flexible,
improving communications channels, and decentralizing some financial administration procedures. Budget
management was systematized and administrative management strengthened.

The new structure has promoted greater interaction among the SEM, the educational institutions, and the
community. This is a major step forward from the situation at the start of the project, when schools were
functioning as entities independent from the public administration and were not assuming ownership of the
programs and projects intended to improve education service. The School Networks played an important
role in this transformation by providing incentives for participation and facilitating interaction among the
members of the education community.

The project contributed to initiating the modernization of the SEM, providing the human and technical
skills required to manage educational quality. Among the most important factors of improvement were: (i)
training in aspects such as: information technology, the management of School Networks, budget
management, procurement, curricular standards, and achievement tests; (ii) support for the design,
publication, and distribution of manuals for enhancing the capacity of school principals in the management
of resources and school accounts; (iii) the procurement of audiovisual equipment, computer hardware,
software, and furniture; and (iv) capacity for fund raising with international donor agencies. The acquired
capacity to conduct a participatory planning process and to give technical assistance in support of the
school sub-projects is further evidence of the institutional strengthening of the SEM.

One pending issue is to provide greater impetus for educational research as an instrument for strengthening
the SEM's pedagogical management, which the project was unfortunately unable to do. This is due to the
fact that, during the first years of project implementation, the SEM gave priority to improving the school
environment (constructions, remodeling and equipment), and that the pedagogical improvement program
was launched late in the life of the project.

Subcomponent 2.2 Information System

The SEM now has an adequate platform for operating the information system and is using Sysman for
financial and accounting management. It features systematic archiving and databases that make it possible
to maintain reliable historical archives on enrollment and related school statistics. It also includes a Project
Monitoring and Financial Management system for a transparent and efficient control system. The SABE 50
information system that had been envisaged at the beginning of project implementation was not completed
because of the lack of support from the national authorities.

The following achievements were noted in the area of educational statistics: (i) the school directory was
cleaned up and updated; (ii) the records on registration for 1998 to 2003 were updated and cleaned up in
compliance with the requirements of the C-600 (DANE form) and those of the Ministry of Education
regarding the organization of the series (on registration and on indicators).

Finally, the municipality, working collaboratively with the Departments of Antioquia and Cundinamarca,
developed the registration system required for the new schools.            This system featuring municipal
projections is necessary for providing places and for processing the information for accessing budgetary
resources via the capitation system.

The municipality now recognizes that the development of information technology tools is essential for
administering the sector and that, thanks to the reliability of the information it provides, it can now have
access to additional resources, provided by the MOE and international donors.


                                                     - 16 -

Subcomponent 2.3. Strengthening of the Various Participants in the Networks

SEM intended to deploy a technical assistance model for promoting and strengthening the School
Networks. However, realizing that it lakes sufficient capacity for the various efforts involved, SEM
decided to contract universities and nonprofit organizations to help establish the necessary processes. The
good results achieved in instructional coaching activities for School Management, Mathematics, and
Escuela Nueva are the outgrowth of a response to the needs identified in the classroom by teachers and, at
the institutional level, by principals and administrators. This sub-contracting experience provided useful
lessons to the SEM, but SEM could benefit from efforts to build up its capacity for technical assistance in
these areas.



Component 3 ­ School Networks (US$ 2.9 million PAD, US$ 3.2 million actual)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The School Networks approach was innovative in strengthening school management and promoting
decentralization. It became the central instrument of the project and the primary strategy for improving the
quality of basic and upper secondary education with effective community participation. However, it also
posed the greatest challenge during implementation, given the lack of prior experience with this novel
approach.

The School Networks had their legal foundation in Decree 0384 of 1999, which defined them as follows:
"The School Network is the set of public and private school institutions in the Municipality of Pasto that
provide pre-school, basic, and upper secondary education within a geographic area featuring similar
socioeconomic, educational, and cultural characteristics, and that work in an interconnected manner
with a view to improving the quality of education."

The project evaluation study acknowledged that the School Network strategy succeeded in introducing a
culture of planning, guidance, and management that promoted greater sharing of experience among
interested actors within the education sector and, in particular, made it possible to focus school
management on the classroom learning process. The capacity to prepare School Network projects was
supported by making the sector more dynamic, providing incentives for community participation and
consensus-based decision-making. A prominent modality was joint projects among several Networks,
which had benefits that extended beyond the sphere of a single Network. Examples were the strengthening
of Escuela Nueva in all the rural School Networks, the environmental projects, the school health projects,
and the music education project in six Networks.

The principal outcomes achieved by the formation of the 14 Networks (12 initially planned and 2 added in
2000) Networks include:

·        Noteworthy improvement in community participation. The forums for participation that were
previously in place (school councils, PEIs, parent/student councils, and community-level boards) were
strengthened and new ones were created (Delegates' Assemblies, Network Councils, Institutional
Pedagogical Circles, Student Quality Circles, Parents' Circles). The participatory design and
implementation of the School Network Development Plans (PDRs) and of the Educational Center projects
in a second stage should be recognized, in conjunction with the Project for the Participatory Formulation of


                                                    - 17 -

the Municipal Budget. Transparent processes were developed for the allocation and management of
resources through the school management accounts.

·        The local conditions and the cultural identity of Pasto were recognized in the process of assessing
the social capital dimensions that strengthened the participatory development of the Municipal Education
Plan (PEM).
·        The networks influenced the shaping of Law 715 of 2001 regarding the obligations of
municipalities to merge their primary and lower secondary schools into comprehensive schools, covering
grades 0 to 11, on the basis of geographical homogeneity. This gave Pasto a comparative advantage over
other municipalities in the country regarding provision of education services.
·        The schools in the networks developed the capacity to identify, formulate, and implement
community projects and manage resources, as part of their PDR. In total 14 pedagogic and institutional
projects were approved, providing Col$441 million to strengthen the Networks. Seven Networks set up
their own fund (Col$63 million per Network).

Establishment of the School Networks was not without its difficulties. There was resistance to change on
the part of the teachers' unions and some SEM unit chiefs and employees combined with the conflicting
jurisdictions and overlapping structures within the Networks, for example with respect to the distinction
between School Networks and Educational Nucleos, Network Councils and School Council, and Network
Coordinators versus Nucleus Directors. Another difficulty faced by the Networks came from the change in
administration in 2001, just at the time when the first PDRs were presented for approval. The transition
resulted in delays in the approval of projects, which compromised the credibility of the Networks with the
education community.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not aplicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: Substantial

The project had a substantial impact on various entities in the education community of the municipality, the
department, and the country at large.

The school regained its reason d'être and became the meeting point between society and the state, the latter
being represented by the SEM. The schools, through their PEIs, or from a broader perspective such as the
PDRs, brought these two poles closer together and opened channels of communication between them. On
the one hand, the regulations governing the education sector were streamlined, so that they could be
learned, discussed, and applied; on the other hand, the aspirations and rights of students, parents, and
teachers started to converge.     This brought about changes in the attitudes and commitment toward
education both of the municipal administration and of civil society.

A positive result of the project was that the SEM acquired the ability to provide technical assistance to the
schools on key pedagogical, administrative and financial aspects. This, in turn, strengthened school
autonomy as well as the municipality's ability to operate in a decentralized manner.

The community participation spaces called for in the General Law on Education (Law 115/1994) have been



                                                     - 18 -

consolidated, and the School Networks have opened new channels. The community has been able to
approach the education sector and gain an understanding of its problems, as well as possible solutions,
which are not solely the purview and responsibility of the state, but also those of the community.

The apprehension about using public resources through the school management accounts has been
eliminated.   The project provided tools and training for transparent management.          There is now a
commitment to administer these funds efficiently, and the schools have been organized in order to address
this responsibility.

The traditional opposition shown by the teachers' union has eased. Because of the involvement of teachers
and the general community in planning processes and of responsiveness to their pedagogical requirements,
the teachers' antagonistic positions have been softened and they have realized that they obtain greater
benefits by drawing closer to the dynamics of the project. This has made the delivery of education services
much more regular. The sole issue on which agreement was not reached was the school network model
versus educational nuclei, because of the power dimensions involved.

The professionalization of the SEM was enhanced. Its planning capacity was strengthened, as well its
advisory functions (an area where further development is required) and supervisory functions and its
capacity to generate relevant information for decision-making. Adequate premises, furniture, and equipment
were also provided. The combination of all these factors enabled the SEM to assume management of the
sector, though it is recognized that greater pedagogical strength is required.

There was an attitude shift in civil society and the municipality, and greater commitment to education. In
the education community, through the School Networks, a space for participation in and organization of
project planning and execution was created, departing from the traditional form of demands and criticisms
towards government investments.

The process of education decentralization was consolidated and important contributions were made to the
formulation of Law 715 of 2001 regarding the reorganization of schools, participatory planning processes,
school autonomy with financial management, and educational statistics, among others.

Many lessons from the Pasto and Antioquia projects were incorporated in the design of the new
Cundinamarca operation. The Bank team facilitated meetings with the project implementation teams, with
special emphasis on the participatory model and the monitoring system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Colombian fiscal crisis had implications for the project in two respects. The system for effecting
transfers from the national government to territorial entities was not in accordance with the terms of Law
60, the parameter under which the project was formulated, and the resources available to Pasto decreased
as a result. This required that the municipality reduce the level of investment and the counterpart funds
initially agreed from 60-40 to 70-30. However, the devaluation of the Colombian peso benefited project
investments, as it made it possible to procure more local goods and services. The other implication was
lower family income levels resulting in parents transferring their children from the private sector to the
public sector. On average, participation in the public education sector increased by 8 percent, from 79
percent in 1999 to 85 percent in 2003, with a corresponding decrease in private sector participation.

Legal framework changes: Project execution was carried out during a period of continual and radical



                                                     - 19 -

changes in the regulations governing the education sector. The most significant of these was Law 715 of
2001, which the teachers' union rejected violently, involving parents in their actions, because it implied a
threat to the union's gains (qualification examination for new teachers and pay increases linked to
performance evaluation). Moreover, the teachers blamed the World Bank for the changes in transfers from
the national government stipulated in the law. The strong reactions temporarily halted progress the project.

The municipality certification process was lengthy and complicated. During the process, relations between
the department and the municipality were at a low point, not only from the political standpoint but also
owing to the difficult financial situation of the department. Two years after the process started, the
department's formal instrument of certification began the partial turnover of education to the municipality
as a result of the suit filed by the municipality against the department in the Council of State. The transfer
of the situado fiscal (national government resources earmarked for education) did not ultimately occur until
2002.    This meant that there was a period of erosion and conflict between the department and the
municipality. One faction on the board of the teachers' union aggravated the conflict by opposing the
decentralization policy and the agreements between the department, the nation, and the municipality.

Violence: The high level of violence in the rural Departments of Nariño and Putumayo led to a continual
movement of displaced persons toward Pasto that is difficult to quantify. According to information from
CODHES, on the basis of a sample of 7,314 persons arriving via Nariño largely toward Pasto, 42 percent
of the displaced persons were between 3 and 17 years of age and would require places in the education
system.

Municipal administration changes: The project was implemented under three different municipal
administrations, which delayed important processes despite the Bank's support during the transition
periods. Those delays would be less if an appropriate transition process existed.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Trade-union pressure against the School Networks. The pressures exerted by the teachers' union and by
the Nucleus directors overwhelmed the municipal administration's capacity to respond in support of a
model that had demonstrated satisfactory results. The municipal authorities had to make compromises to
deal with these pressures which in some cases meant a reduced role for the School Network.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Complex accountability requirements. There were implementation difficulties at the beginning because
the Project Coordination Unit imposed complex accountability requirements on the community (accounting,
reporting), which in addition were different from what the Municipal Comptroller's Office required.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The financial management of the project was satisfactory. At appraisal, total project cost as estimated at
US$12 million of which USS7.2 million would correspond to the Bank loan and US$4.8 million to the
counterpart funds.

The project underwent a Mid-Term Evaluation in June 2000 and in March 2001 a Quality Enhancement
Review (QER) was undertaken to obtain expert advice on possible changes. The recommendations of the
QER made it possible to: (i) extend the duration of the project from June 2002 until June 2003; (ii) modify
the percentage of counterpart funds from 40-60 to 30-70; and (iii) introduce new investment categories in
order to provide incentives to the teachers participating in project implementation. The change in the
counterpart funding percentage reduced local contributions to US$3.7 million and increased the Bank's
share correspondingly. However the project benefited from the exchange differential resulting from the



                                                     - 20 -

devaluation of the peso and from the slowdown in inflation in recent years, increased the program's
purchasing capacity by 39.3 percent compared to the initial budgeted level. As a result total project costs
amounted to only US$10.9 million.

IBRD disbursement totaled US$7.102 million, equivalent to 98.6 percent of the loan, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$97,900, which was cancelled. Local counterpart funding was US$3.75 million
(as adjusted in 2001--see below), representing an execution level of 101.5 percent. The total project cost
was US$10.857 million, meaning that the adjusted project budget (US$10.9 million) was 99.6 percent
executed, and the total cost was reduced by 9.5 percent from the initially budgeted level (see Annex 2c for
detail). The actual cost by component is listed in Table 7.

                           Table 7. Project Costs by Component (in US$ million)

        Project component               Appraisal    Revised  Actual/latest       % of
                                        Estimate     Estimate Estimate       Actual/revised
        1. NEBIS--Basic Unattended          5.6        4.8         5.6            116.6
        Educational Needs
      2. Institutional Strengthening        2.3        3.3         2.1             63.6
      3. School Networks                    2.4        2.3         3.2            139.1
      Physical Contingencies                0.9         0           0               0
      Price Contingencies                   0.8         0           0               0
        Total                               12.0       10.4       10.9



The external audits confirmed that the financial management and accounting system fully met the needs of
the project in terms of internal controls and oversight, and produced reports and financial statements that
provided reliable information on the state of project accounts. There were no audit observations or
financial issues pending at the project closing date.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely.

Project sustainability will be facilitated by the high levels of community participation and empowerment
generated, as well as by the autonomy achieved in the schools. Empowerment at the school level in terms
of pedagogical and administrative processes, community participation, and investment oversight, help
ensure that those advancements will be maintained over time. While developing the School Networks was
an arduous task, this model makes it possible to achieve significant advances in the processes of planning
quality improvement, school autonomy, access, and institutional strengthening. The advantages of the
School Network approach will become more evident as schools begin to comply with the requirements of
Law 715 (for example, consolidation of schools and school autonomy).

There are a number of additional factors that are likely to help ensure the sustainability of the project:

l The financial autonomy given to schools by using project resources through the school management
    accounts strengthened the commitment of the education community to reach its own decisions and
    resolve problems in the schools. The continuing coaching process financed by the municipality,
    together with the newly-elaborated manuals, will help to maintain those achievements of the project in



                                                     - 21 -

    the long-run.
l The SEM worked closely with the new schools (schools reorganized according to the requirements of
    Law 715 of 2001 and constructed under the project) and education centers on maintaining the
    infrastructure and determining priorities in the maintenance plan. Beginning in 2004, these institutions
    assumed this responsibility with funding from school management accounts. The initial success with
    improving infrastructure and in administering the school management accounts bodes well for the
    future. The administrative teams of the new schools have been strengthened with entrepreneurial vision
    and management tools that will help ensure proper control of revenue and management transparency.
    In addition, the SEM has prepared a buildings rehabilitation plan, valued at approximately US$1.0
    million, which is being financed through domestic resources transferred from the MOE.
l The project departed from the traditional form of state investment, which functioned in response to
    special requests and political compromises. As a result of this project, there are now deeply rooted
    processes of participation, joint organization, consultation, and oversight, and as a result, increased
    transparency and efficiency in investment.
l The municipality and the schools are committed in a continual improvement of pedagogical processes
    through institutional improvement plans based on achievement test results. In addition, in 2004, the
    municipality devoted roughly US$300,000 to strengthening the artistic network and the music schools.
l A new municipal administration came into office in January 2004; it has shown strong signs of
    commitment to education and is likely to maintain the benefits obtained under the project.
l Greater school autonomy accompanied by a high level of community participation are now irreversible
    processes in the municipality.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Municipal autonomy: The SEM has incorporated the project practices and strategies into its regular
functions as the entity responsible for administering and providing education services in Pasto. It now has
the processes and tools required to manage the sector and the educational structure with a view to providing
the services in the most effective manner. There has been a change in attitude on the part of administrators
and teachers in favor of quality education services.

Evidence of the benefits of community participation is started to be reflected in other sectors of municipal
administration. Therefore, it can be expected that the community's commitment will continue to increase
and that the education sector will continue to benefit from it.

School self -management: The school authorities have been sufficiently empowered, and know the
regulations that govern them and their rights and duties. At present the community is participating actively
in exercising oversight or as members of committees or boards managing the schools. Independent groups
conformed by community members have been established and have developed their capacity. One example
is the "Citizen Oversight Committee--Education," which has the capacity to conduct studies on priorities,
monitor budgets and their execution, make suggestions, and grade the management of municipal projects at
the school level.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal phases of the project is considered
satisfactory. The project was prepared within the framework of the Country Assistance Strategies (CASs)
for Colombia of 1993 and 1997, which recognized that the country's unequal and low levels of educational


                                                    - 22 -

attainment and coverage, primarily in poor and rural communities adversely affected its development. The
1997 CAS placed great emphasis on successfully implementing Colombia's decentralization and
community participation policies. The Bank's preparation team had substantial experience in the design
and implementation of similar projects. It put in place a strong technical design integrating all the key
dimensions of an effective quality improvement strategy (Local Government and Community Management
for the Education System, Decentralization Background, Original Decentralization Implementation
Strategy, and New Decentralization Implementation Approach). Broad participation from the community
was encouraged during project preparation. The degree of Bank team involvement in preparation was high
and the quality of inputs was good. The Bank team remained flexible and open to new ideas, and made a
significant contribution to the design with respect to the technical and financial feasibility of the
decentralization process and school autonomy.

Also noteworthy was the support provided by various Bank departments during the preparation and
negotiation of this first municipal decentralized education project in the Latin American Region.

To support project preparation, the Bank obtained and managed, on an exceptional basis (due to Pasto's
lack of experience with Bank procedures), a PHRD grant of US$127,600. Implementation of the grant,
which financed all the preparatory studies, served as a training exercise to familiarize the Pasto
municipality with Bank procedures and norms.

7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, Bank performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory because there was close and regular
monitoring of project achievements and issues throughout the project implementation period. The technical
relationship between the Bank and the SEM was strong throughout the implementation phase, with the
permanent task manager present in-country.

The Bank conducted eleven supervision missions during the project life cycle. The quality of the mission
members and their technical expertise were decisive factors in providing key recommendations and moving
processes forward. There was also strict compliance with agreements on the part of the Bank and the
monitoring of the counterpart agreements were an important part of the supervision processes.

A thorough mid-term evaluation was carried out, leading to major decisions to improve project
implementation, such as: (i) introduction of the principles of selectivity, flexibility and simplicity in all
components and levels of project management (ii) reduction in the share of counterpart funding and (iii)
extension of the project completion and last closing date.

As a follow up to the mid-term evaluation, an innovative form of QER was carried out. For the first time
in a Bank QER, the counterpart team was invited to participate together with the Bank supervision team.
This approach had a very positive impact in terms of acceptance and ownership of the agreed changes.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank demonstrated great flexibility in times of acute economic and fiscal crisis and played the role of
mediator among some of the institutions involved in the certification process and project implementation,
thereby facilitating the search for solutions and adjustments.




                                                     - 23 -

The Bank was enterprising in supporting this operation and provided the project team with the resources
and support it needed. The Bank team also adopted a constructive and open-minded attitude, which helped
build an effective partnership with the local government, and provided substantial technical support, which
contributed to the project's successful outcome.

Another valuable factor was the Bank's continuing presence during successive changes of administration,
which made it possible to reduce the usual transition delays and to work together with the new
administration to maintain the project's development objectives, implementation scheme, and plans and
programs.

The Bank's performance was further characterized by celerity and flexibility in the processing of its "no
objection," in the monitoring of project execution and achievements, and strong support in trying to resolve
new issues not considered during the project design phase, such as: (i) the introduction of alternative
pedagogical activities for displaced people and for the School Networks in the poorest areas, for example
the Music Schools, (ii) the construction of schools in regions with high earthquake risks, and (iii) the
introduction of incentives for the teachers working with the SEM in support of the project.

The Youth Orchestra initiative was modeled after the experience in Medellin, which allowed for rapid and
smooth implementation. The project supported the creation of youth orchestras in the poorest School
Networks to enrol young people from displaced groups or living in areas with high level of violence. One
of the factors of success was the direct participation of parents and the community. A good monitoring
system was also put in place to assess the impact of the project with both pedagogical and social indicators
to measure improvements in academic results and reduction in conflicts. The municipality has decided to
contribute financial resources to ensure the sustainability of this initiative.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Leadership: The Municipality of Pasto provided a team of expert consultants as well as regular staff led
by the mayor to work with the Bank on the identification, design, and preparation of project components.
This made it possible to assemble a coherent project proposal for presentation to the Bank.

Capacity of the municipal administration to negotiate with the Department of Nariño and the national
authorities: Despite the initial reluctance of the department to transfer responsibility for the management
of education services to the municipality and the lack of clarity of the legal framework, the municipal
authorities were able to prepare and negotiate the project with the national authorities who eventually
provided full support.

Adequate technical and financial analysis: The municipality carried out several technical and financial
studies as part of project preparation. It also involved all stakeholders in the preparation process, and the
team participated in a study tour to Ecuador to learn about School Networks in operation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Municipal Level: Despite the Municipality of Pasto administration's lack of experience with managing a
Bank financing project, its performance indicates that the municipality was able to overcome the major
obstacles, such as the opposition of the department and the lack of statistical information on education, in a



                                                    - 24 -

successful way. The municipality made compliance with the project objectives and agreements with the
Bank a priority. It further endeavored to maintain high levels of efficiency and citizen participation during
project implementation. The municipality also took advantage of the execution of this project to provide
feedback on many municipal administration processes in other sectors outside education. However, the
project faced political difficulties due to the opposition of the teachers trade-union. To overcome this
problem, the municipality involved the teachers in the project planning and decision making process.

The National Authorities: The MOE, DNP and the Ministry of Finance were involved and fully
supportive of the project from the very beginning. These agencies participated in key preparation and
supervision missions as well as in the Mid-Term Review. The national authorities monitored the project
achievements carefully to learn from this first experience with application of the decentralization law (Law
715).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Once the project began active implementation SEM performance was satisfactory. During the first year
there was an initial delay due to the lack of understanding of the Bank's norms and procedures, as well as
limited technical expertise to provide support to the schools and School Networks. This issue was
addressed through training and more frequent technical assistance missions. The SEM was significantly
strengthened during project implementation and was able to take advantage of the assistance provided by
the Bank and external consultants to put in place its financial and accounting system and its educational
information system.

Despite its lack of experience with management in the sector, the SEM demonstrated a great capacity for
change. The most noteworthy achievements were: (i) the restructuring and professionalization of its
staffing; (ii) its strengthened capacity to advance the decentralization process in terms of assuming
responsibility for the physical infrastructure and negotiating the transfer of responsibility for the teaching
personnel; (iii) the construction of its databases, which are now regarded as adequate and reliable; and (iv)
training of its administrative personnel.

As a result of this strengthening process, the SEM is now able to provide education services to the local
community in a decentralized, participatory, and efficient manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, with particular recognition of the commitment
shown by the mayor of each successive administration, the Secretary of Education, and the Unit
Coordinators. They all demonstrated commitment to addressing challenges during the course of the project
and consolidating local autonomy in the provision of education services. The municipality assumed the
responsibilities ensuing from the decentralization of education, and successfully passed this authority on to
the schools. Consensus has been achieved regarding the autonomy of roles in the management of resources,
and internal controls are in place.

The project's contribution was decisive in improving education in Pasto, especially in rural areas and
enhancing the quality of school management. It is also important to note that there is a higher level of
empowerment of the local authorities in terms of securing additional resources from national entities or
international cooperation in order to consolidate activities to benefit the sector, which were not eligible for



                                                     - 25 -

or originally contemplated in the project. In recent years, the SEM has assumed a proactive role in working
within strategic partnerships with the private sector and academia.


8. Lessons Learned

Education Reform
Thorough and rigorous upfront diagnostic studies and analyses are necessary when the education
sector is undergoing profound transformation. Preparing for first-time sector investments in a context of
profound educational transformation requires further understanding of the issues relating to: (i) the
adoption of new institutional and pedagogical policies; (ii) the structure and management of the education
sector; (iii) education financing and expenditures; (iv) internal and external efficiency (relevance); (v) the
quality and equity of education; and (vi) the appropriateness of project design and targeting criteria.

8.2. Decentralization
Thorough understanding of the decentralization model and implementation process. From the very
beginning, project preparation and implementation must take into consideration the implications of the
decentralization model for the various national and local actors, including the respective spheres of
authority and responsibility.

Provision of technical assistance in a way that empowers schools, communities, and providers. The
SEM learned that the provision of technical assistance by external entities like universities was effective in
building capacity and empowering schools and the community. At the same time, reliance on external
partners strengthened the SEM, which learned to identify what assistance was required, formulate TORs,
and become involved in all stages. A further benefit of sub-contracting technical assistance was the local
and regional consolidation of the education sector around a common aim, such as improving educational
quality. The higher education institutions providing technical assistance also enriched their mission and
their understanding of prevailing circumstances, thereby generating inputs for the improvement of their own
course offerings.

School autonomy requires financial resources. Depoliticization of the resource allocation process in the
education sector alters the investment pattern of the state in a positive manner. The project demonstrated
how the school management accounts (Fondos de Servicio Docente, now known as Fondos de Servicio
Educativo) and the School Network Funds can constitute crucial technical and financial tools for planning,
executing, and evaluating processes related to improving education services in ways that match the
instructional needs of students. The response to genuine needs demonstrated that the community had
multiple ways of supporting and organizing the most relevant and needed initiatives (labor, financial
contributions, monitoring works, oversight, etc.) in order to make the most of available public resources.

Increased awareness of the importance of education can lead to increased resources for the sector.
The project encouraged the municipality to think of education as a key factor in local development. This
resulted in increased investment for the sector. Pasto's fiscal effort (better tax collection and fund raising
efforts towards international donor agencies and embassies) demonstrated the capacity of municipalities to
mobilize additional resources for education, as well as the possibility that they may be regarded as future
clients of the Bank. Pasto also set an example of how municipalities might obtain additional resources for
education, either through their own resources, direct negotiations with national agencies, or agreements
with international cooperation agencies, provided that such applications for additional funding are
supported by clear, cohesive plans for the sector that show visible benefits.




                                                     - 26 -

Municipalities and schools can learn to prepare and implement education improvement plans
effectively. The project generated awareness in the municipality and in the schools about the importance of
good quality PEMs (municipal education plans), PEIs, and PDRs as key development instruments for the
education sector.

Direct transfers of funds to municipalities and schools. It is possible to effectively develop the local
capacity to plan and formulate education plans, and to assign financial resources in accordance with the
content of those plans. The direct transfer of funds based on needs can make it possible for municipalities
and schools to assume greater responsibilities and enhance the management efficiency of available
resources.

8.3 Knowledge Sharing and Cross-Fertilization
Disseminate good project practices for regular knowledge cross-fertilization. Project implementation
improves when good practices are disseminated and cross-fertilization is encouraged among provinces
undergoing similar education transformation.          The cross-fertilization can be done through training,
workshops, seminars, technical assistance, demonstration events, and/or conventions. Initially Pasto and
Antioquia, and subsequently Cundinamarca, demonstrated the benefits of promoting shared support
processes or developing initiatives jointly. Pasto implemented the music schools model in very little time
with assistance from Antioquia, which had pursued this initiative for a number of years. The three
territorial entities combined forces to develop the registration system in order to meet the requirements of
the new capitation system. There are multiple examples of cooperation yielding technical benefits and
savings of time and resources for the parties involved.

A participatory approach including all key actors and potential beneficiaries enhances project
effectiveness and increases the impact by ensuring relevance, ownership, and accountability. The
participation of all stakeholders not only protects the project from political and economic instabilities, but
also reduces opposition from specific groups. A clear participation strategy is one way of involving the
community, which traditionally was alienated from state entities due to lack of trust. In this project,
another important factor in achieving successful participation levels was the clear identification of the
cultural characteristics of the community, which enabled the project to rely on traditional native
organizational structures such as the mingas and cabildos.            The strengthening of school oversight
structures also ensured community support for the project. Through diverse participatory mechanisms, it is
possible to build up the social fabric, identity, and commitment with respect to education.

8.4. Monitoring & Evaluation
An information system for educational statistics should be regarded as a prerequisite for the design of
any education project, after first ensuring full consistency with the national system.          In that way,
information can be used as a tool for systematic analysis of proposals and assessment of their desired
impact. In the case of Pasto, the lack of updated and reliable information was a problem that, at the outset,
generated insecurity as to the use of the investments and the validity of the results. The experience of Pasto
in this regard has been taken into consideration in the new project with the Department of Cundinamarca,
where the Bank has provided the necessary technical assistance and associated efforts from the very earliest
stage.

Impact Evaluation study. Carrying out an impact evaluation study has many positive effects including: (i)
an opportunity to identify or objectively confirm the strengths and weaknesses of the project which can then
be incorporated in the design of new operations; (ii) the establishment of a statistical database on project
results; (iii) provision of information serving as the foundation for decisions to ensure the sustainability of



                                                      - 27 -

project activities; and, (iv) increasing receptivity of the counterpart team to the conclusions and
recommendations when the impact evaluation is conducted jointly.

Establish a well-designed, operational project monitoring and evaluation system from the outset. It is
important to have a well-designed and fully operational monitoring and evaluation system in place at the
early stages of the project cycle. Such a system can provide the flexibility to correct the course of action if
necessary during project implementation. A management information system can be a powerful tool for
laying the groundwork for the discussion and design of policy measures, strategic actions and investments.
The systematization of administrative processes also becomes more efficient when supported by adequate
computerized procedures. The use of an integrated information system, such as the monitoring and
evaluation system described above, contributes to expediting project-related processes, including follow-up
on procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Below is an unofficial translation of a summary of comments received from the Borrower. The original
comments in Spanish are presented in Annex 8.

The Education Quality Improvement Project [Pasto Education Project] implemented between 1997 and
2003 unquestionably created new and positive administrative, pedagogical, and financial conditions for the
delivery of education services in Pasto. The greatest achievement is perhaps the fact that the local
authorities and the community have come to view education as a development priority. The project has
also brought about more transparency and less politicization in the resource allocation process (capitation).
Another important factor to emphasize is the motivation, participation, and commitment of the community
to understand and support the managers of the education sector.

These positive results were achieved in the context of radical changes in the regulatory environment of the
education sector, including the introduction of a new system of performance evaluation for teachers and
school principals which has not been fully accepted.

Enrollment increased, as evidenced by the fact that enrollment rose faster than the school-age population,
and the ability of the public schools to take on students transferring from private schools as a result of the
economic crisis.

As far as the quality of education is concerned, the results of Pasto students in the national tests were
higher than the national average, especially in language. The highest improvement took place in the rural
areas, confirming that the project helped reduce the urban-rural gap observed at the beginning of the project
in 1997.

The analysis of the results of the achievement tests introduced a culture of assessment and planning of
education investments, especially with regard to teacher qualifications, the assignation of pedagogical
resources, and improvements in classroom pedagogical practices.

The project transformed the physical and pedagogical environment of schools in the Pasto municipality.
Thanks to the project, the municipality also has the necessary information to conduct a diagnosis of the
sector which can inform future investments on behalf of education development for the neediest groups.

The main factors of sustainability of the project interventions are: (i) the positive change in the attitude of



                                                    - 28 -

school principals and teachers with an increased focus on the quality of the education services; (ii) the
increased commitment of parents on behalf of the education of their children, expressed in their involvement
in oversight activities (school council); and (iii) the increased responsibilities taken on by the SEM to
manage education services in the context of decentralization as a certified Municipality.

The Municipality of Pasto recognized the excellent assistance provided by the Bank in all phases of project
preparation and implementation as an important factor of success. The Municipality also acknowledged
the positive role played by the Bank in providing continuous support throughout the changes of
administration, ensuring that adjustments to the project did not constitute a deviation from the original
objectives and philosophy. Finally the Borrower expressed satisfaction with the rigorous but flexible way
in which the Bank supported the procurement and disbursement processes and carried out its supervision
and monitoring responsibilities.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
DO: Improve student learning in basic        (6/30/03) a) Tests to be applied to all the  Grade 3:
education                                    schools in 2003 ("Primer Trimestre"); b)     Mathematics: 41%; Language skills 23%;
Indicator: Increase student test scores by   Baseline test results disseminated to the    Grade 5:
5% in participating schools (percentage of   community                                    Mathematics: 39%; Language skills: 66%;
students achieving highest level of                                                       Grade 7:
complexity)                                                                               Mathematics: 13%; Language skills: 41%
                                                                                          Grade9:
                                                                                          Mathematics: 18%; Language skills: 40%
                                                                                          the ICFES provided results to each school
                                                                                          through workshops
DO: Improved access to basic education to    (6/30/03) Pre-school gross and net           Pre-school:
compensate for: a) school age population     enrollment: 36.09% & 32.53%. Primary         Gross and net enrollment: 37.4% & 33.4%
growth and b) reduction in night and         gross and net enrollment: 85.4% & 75.68%.    (2001-2)
afternoon shifts                             Secondary gross and net enrollment:.75.02% Primary: Gross and net enrollment: 113.0%
Indicator: Maintain the school coverage with & 46.56%                                     &90.2% (2001-02)
enrollment keeping pace with school                                                       Secondary:
population growth.                                                                        Gross and net enrollment: 88.7% & 66%
                                                                                          (2001-02)
                                                                                          Annual increase in gross enrollment: 1%
                                                                                          (total 4%)
                                                                                          Net enrollment decreased by 13%
                                                                                          Rural enrollment: Participation increased by
                                                                                          4.3%, from 14.0% (1997-98) to 14.6%
                                                                                          (2000-01)

                                                                                          Population growth rate: 2.15% a year

                                                                                          Enrollment increase: 2.22% a year

                                                                                          Official sector participation: 85.1%
                                                                                          (2002-2003). Increase of 8%

DO: Improve student retention in Basic       (6/30/03) Dropout: 3.9%; and, Repetition:    Dropout: 5.2%
Education                                    2.79%                                        Repetition: 4.2%
Indicator: Improve at least 8% in rates of
repetition and dropout

DO: Building and strengthening educational   (06/30/03) Having the 2003 household         100% of the official institutions have
and institutional management capacity and    surveys                                      participated in decision making and oversight
participation at all levels (SEM, Redes,                                                  of resources.
Schools)
Indicator: 85% of participating                                                           The Projected benefited 92,028 students.
schools/communities provide evidence of the                                               Of the 14 Networks of 287 schools, 191 are
impact of their projects                                                                  in official sector (33% private), including 82
                                                                                          urban and 109 rural.
                                                                                          Private 96, of which 74 urban and 22 rural.

                                                                                          Of total students benefiting, 76,348 (85.1%)
                                                                                          attended official sector schools.

                                                                                          Training and/or support provided to 2,646, or
                                                                                          90% of teacher corps.




                                                               - 30 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Output: Pedagogically innovative and (06/30/03) All the schools have their PEIs    100% coverage of Escuela Nueva in 111
participatory schools and communities         reviewed. And 80% of the PEIs are being      rural schools. 55% coverage of Gestion
Indicator: Pasto schools execute PEIS         implemented.                                 Escolar in 116 urban and rural schools.
created by the educational community with                                                  1000 copies of the new school methdology
teaching and administrative components                                                     including the PEI review modules were
                                                                                           delivered.

                                                                                           For PEI training, 80 CPIs were involved and
                                                                                           1,000 copies of three modules were
                                                                                           delivered.
Project Output: Pedagogically innovative and (06/30/03) One PDR per network is             83% of Networks presented eligible projects.
participatory schools and communities         approved and being implemented and 80% of 30 projects from educational institutions and
Indicator: At least 50% of the schools        the PDRs submitted by the schools are        7 projects from Networks were approved.
prepare proposals for innovative pedagogical  approved and being implemented.
investment                                                                                 Pedagogical innovations were:
                                                                                           (i) Escuela Nueva in conjunction with
                                                                                           productive projects PIER (14 schools, 525
                                                                                           teachers).
                                                                                           (ii) music education (1,000 children, 1,493
                                                                                           instruments, and 6 music rooms).
                                                                                           (iii) pre-school gains a foothold (364 children,
                                                                                           83 formally trained pre-school teachers and
                                                                                           56 mothers from the community).
                                                                                           (iv) Continuing education for adults, with a
                                                                                           computer room (345 students).
                                                                                           (v) Technical education (23 institutions with
                                                                                           technology classrooms and trained teachers).
                                                                                           (vi) accelerated learning program (350
                                                                                           students).
                                                                                           (vii) 30 projects in PEIs.
                                                                                           (viii) pedagogical companion measures in
                                                                                           mathematics and school management (34
                                                                                           educational institutions, 50 teachers, and 3
                                                                                           supervisory officials).
                                                                                           (ix) connectivity between schools.


Project Output: Pedagogically innovative and (06/30/03) Acquisition of materials through   Project delivered: 1727 classroom libraries;
participatory schools and communities         public bidding. 100% of the schools provided 1232 pedagogic tool kits; 100% of the
Indicator: Changes in the classroom behavior with pedagogical material.At least 50% of the schools received 180 musical kits containing,
(e.g. use, maintenance and integration of new teachers are trained on the use of           percussion, string and wind instruments. 10
educational materials) at least 50% of the    pedagogical material.Appropriate use of      computer rooms, 3 laboratories (chemistry
basic education teachers                      materials in at least 80% of the schools.    and physics).
Project Output: Pedagogically innovative and                                               Training activities benefited 7,390 persons:
participatory schools and communities                                                      (i) 46 administrators; and
Indicator: Improved teaching and student                                                   (ii) 50 mathematics teachers were trained
involvement                                                                                and will become trainers themselves until
                                                                                           100% coverage of teachers is reached;
                                                                                           (iii) 152 pre-school teachers;
                                                                                           (iv) 7,072 teachers and administrative staff in
                                                                                           healthy schools models;
                                                                                           (v) 70 teachers and administrative staff in
                                                                                           systems.




                                                                 - 31 -

Project output: Increased investment in the 06/30/03             A total of 571 works. Classrooms: 245: [new
provision of Escuela Nueva places and       90,022               138, replacements 92, and renovations 15]
improved school infrastructure                                   Remodeling and upgrading of schools 15
Indicator: The number of spaces for                              Construction of 1 Escuela Nueva
enrollment has been increased (3.700) in the                     102 sanitary installations
public school, kindergarden, primary and                         Other works 208
secondary education.
                                                                 Sanitary installations were remodeled in 98
                                                                 schools. Classrooms were remodeled in 42
                                                                 facilities. Furniture was purchased for 6
                                                                 music schools.
                                                                 For students: 9,273 desks and 8,685 chairs.
                                                                 For teachers: 982 chairs and 940 desks.
                                                                 Furniture for classroom libraries 1,727.

                                                                 Increase of 8,504 places, 7,284 in public
                                                                 schools and 1,220 subsidized places in 18
                                                                 urban and 2 rural private schools. The SAT
                                                                 was implemented in the rural sector and
                                                                 benefited 160 students over age 17.

                                                                 Pasto now has 2,419 classrooms, of which
                                                                 10% were built or remodeled by the project.



Project Output: Strengthened school                              School management is providing training for
management and community participation                           schools´ principals and directors of 116
Indicator: School authorities are autonomous                     institutions.
in Pasto's schools                                               All school bodies are active.

                                                                 Active student participation vis-à-vis school
                                                                 managing boards. Student councils
                                                                 operational in all educational institutions. All
                                                                 schools have democratically elected
                                                                 representatives.

                                                                 Parents and students acknowledge that the
                                                                 project improved the condition of physical
                                                                 premises and led to a new climate for
                                                                 relations among teachers, parents, and
                                                                 students, the outgrowth of the venues for
                                                                 participation, organization, and concertation
                                                                 generated in the Networks.

                                                                 The student councils and parents
                                                                 associations found that the Network
                                                                 governments provided a venue for active
                                                                 participation in the definition of requirements
                                                                 and the planning, management, and control
                                                                 of education services.




                                                       - 32 -

Project Output: Strengthened school                                                      SABE 50 was not implemented.
management and community participation                                                   Efficient use of human resources: the
Indicator: All the schools utilize the                                                   average number of students per teacher
information system SABE 50                                                               increased from 21.2 in 1999 to 22.2 in 2000.

                                                                                         Enrollment databases reliable since
                                                                                         1998-99.

                                                                                         Development of the enrollment information
                                                                                         system as part of the partnership with
                                                                                         Antioquia and Cundinamarca.


Proj.Output: Strengthened school mgmt. &     (06/30/30) 14 Redes are composed.           14 pedagogic and institutional projects were
community participation                      Transfers are made to all Teachers Services approved providing Col$441 million pesos to
Indicator: a) The schools of 12 Redes        Funds (Fondos de Cuenta Red).               financially strengthen the Networks. Seven
identify, formulate and implement community                                              networks created their own Fund ($63 million
projects and manage resources (as part of                                                per network)
the PDR); b) More efficient use of human
resources & school infrastructure.




Project Output: Strengthening of the SEM     There has been no development of the        Law 715 altered the educational map,
Indicator: The SEM uses an automated         planned information system.                 switching from 246 educational institutions to
information system for monitoring and                                                    32 Escuela Nuevas and 10 Education
evaluation of the students, schools and                                                  Centers. Of these, 15 and 10 are rural.
municipalities by results and indicators
                                                                                         SEM officials trained in IT use, network
                                                                                         management, architectural structures, budget
                                                                                         management, procurement, curricular
                                                                                         standards, etc. Resource management
                                                                                         manuals published.

                                                                                         A number of institutions are connected with
                                                                                         one another and the SEM via the Internet.

                                                                                         SEM management improved by providing of
                                                                                         technical assistance and staff training.

                                                                                         Pasto has an updated Education
                                                                                         Development Plan for the various activities in
                                                                                         the sector.

                                                                                         Networks on pedagogical topics have been
                                                                                         formed and are preparing their own projects.
School and community strengthening
·
           1,200 Basic Education (preschool, Target: 1.200 schools (preschool, primary   The decentralization Law of 2002 reorganized
primary and lower secondary) schools in      and lower secondary)                        the institutional map in the education sector
Antioquia and their communities (through                                                 in Antioquia. The 5,639 public schools that
formed school- community governing bodies)                                               existed at that time were consolidated into
prepare and implement their own                                                          420 integral schools with the whole range of
improvement plans                                                                        grades, from pre-school to junior secondary.
                                                                                         Each of the 3,120 primary schools has its
                                                                                         PEI.


Municipal Education Management
strengthening and investment development

·          80 PEMs with investments oriented Target: 80 municipalities with PEMs and     90 PEMs with investments oriented toward
toward improving the schools quality of      POAs with investment to increase coverage. improving the schools quality of education-
education                                                                                12.5% over the expected goal




                                                              - 33 -

·          80 PEMs and POAs with               MTR: 50% of the municipalities prepare their 90 PEMs and POAs with investments to
investments to increase school coverage.       PEMs incorporating the results of the school increase school coverage- 12.5% over the
                                               PEIs.                                        expected goal
·          80 PEMs and POAs with
investments for Local Educational Services                                                  90 PEM and POAs with investments for
Centers                                                                                     Local Educational Services Centers12.5%
                                                                                            over the expected goal.
Departmental Services Strengthening

·          SEDUCA modernizes its inter and
intrainstitutional communication systems
·          SEDUCA with an automated                                                         All the efforts were centered in TAREANET.
information system for monitoring and                                                       There is available a web page which have
evaluation of students, schools,                                                            included an updating information process.
municipalities and Department by results and
indicators                                                                                  A very complicated monitoring system was
·          63 departmental staff are trained in                                             tried and abandoned. The Department now
consulting and management skills                                                            uses a simple based system.

                                                                                            SEDUCA, in partnership with Pasto,
                                                                                            Cundinamarca , is working on the design and
                                                                                            implementation of a system to monitor school
                                                                                            enrollment




                                               Target: 63 municipalities                    124 municipalities received training in
                                               MTR, 50% of the municipalities apply the     pedagogical and financial management.
                                               strategy in their schools.                   270 departmental staff were trained in
                                                                                            consulting and management skills 217.7%
                                                                                            over the initial goal
                                                                                            124 municipalities implemented programs to
                                                                                            promote peaceful coexistence in all schools.


1End of project




                                                                  - 34 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Annex 2a. Project Costs and Financing by Component (in US$ million

          Project component Appraisal Revised   Actual/  % of
                            Estimate  Estimate latest    Actual/
                                                Estimate Revised

          1. NEBIs--Basic       5.6     4.8       5.6     83.6
          Unattended
          Educational Needs
         2. Institutional       2.3     3.3       2.1     87.5
         Strengthening
         3. School Networks     2.4     2.3       3.2    110.3
         Physical               0.9       0         0      0
         Contingencies
         Price Contingencies    0.8       0         0      0
          Total                 12.0    10.4      10.9    91




                                          - 35 -

Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditures                    Procurement method Appraisal                        Procurement method actual.
Categories                      estimate
                                   ICB     NCB        Other     NBF        Total      ICB       NCB       Other      NBF      Total
1. Works
   School Construction                       2.0    3.0 \a                 5.0                  1.8        2.4                 4.2
   & Rehabilitation.                        (1.1)   (2.0)                 (3.3)                (1.3)      (1.5)               (2.8)
2. Goods
Classroom Libraries &              0.6       0.4                           1.0        0.3       0.3        0.2                 0.8
Didactic Materials                (0.4)     (0.2)                         (0.6)      (0.2)     (0.2)      (0.1)               (0.5)
School Furniture.                            0.4                           0.4        0.2       0.3                            0.5
                                            (0.2)                         (0.2)      (0.1)     (0.2)                          (0.3)
Computer
&Audiovisual                                          0.2\b                0.2
Equipment.                                            (0.1)               (0.1)
3. Consultants c/
 Studies, TA,                                          1.8                 1.8                             2.1                 2.1
Training,                                             (1.3)               (1.3)                           (1.3)               (1.3)
Architects, NGOs,
PCU
4. School Networks                                     2.7                 2.7        0.5       1.3        1.5                 3.3
   (PDRs) d/                                          (1.7)               (1.7)      (0.4)     (0.8)      (1.0)               (2.2)
5. NBF                                                           0.8       0.8
                                   0.6       2.8       7.7       0.8      12.0        1.0       3.7        6.2                10.9
Total                             (0.4)     (1.7)     (5.1)               (7.2)      (0.7)     (2.5)      (3.9)               (7.1)


Notes: Not Bank-financed. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a/ At least three quotations.
b/ Shopping.
c/ Consultant services: US$1.331 million QCBS or Least-Cost Selection; US$323,000 (NGOs) Fixed Budget; and $US200,000
pursuant to paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997.
d/ School Network (PDR) funds will be allocated to 14 Networks (each comprising about 15 schools). The amounts will be allocated
as per schedule implementation and costs. Procurement may include goods (computer equipment, teaching materials, supplies,
furniture), technical assistance (fellowships, workshops, teacher research and training), and services (e.g. dissemination campaigns,
transportation, rental of conference rooms, meetings), and a maximum of 20 percent in small infrastructure improvement. Procurement
will be carried out upon identification of needs by each Network, up to an allocated amount per Network as assigned by the
Municipality on the basis of established ceilings and procurement methods described in the Procurement Manual acceptable to the
Bank, up to an aggregate total amount of about US$2.7 million.




                                                                    - 36 -

Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                   Total         PARI-PASU                      E X E C U T I O N
      Components   SAR       IBRD           Local          IBRD          Local     Total

                   (US$)  (US$)    %    (US$)    %     (US$)     %    (US$)    %   (US$)
1. NEBIs ­ Basic
Unattended
Educational Needs   5.6    3.6   64.3    2.0  35.7      3.6     64.3   2.0    35.7  5.6
2. Institutional
strengthening.      2.3    1.6   69.6    0.7   30.4     1.3     61.9   0.8    38.1  2.1

3. School Network
Redes               2.4    1.5  62.5     0.9   37.5     2.2     68.8   1.0    31.2  3.2

Total Base Line
Cost               10.3    6.7  65.0     3.6   35.0     7.1     65.0   3.8    35.0 10.9
Physical
Contingencies       0.9    0.5  56.0     0.4   44.0      0       0      0      0    0
Price
Contingencies       0.8     0      0     0.8   100.0     0       0      0      0    0
Total Project Cost
                   12.0    7.2  60.0     4.8   40.0     7.1     65.0   3.8    35.0 10.9




                                             - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/17/1995                2    Education Specialist (1), Social
                                             Sector Specialist (1)
              05/06/1996                4    Task Team Leader (1),
                                             Education Specialist-Consultant
                                             (1), Social Sector Specialist (1),
                                             Resident Representative (1)
              08/08/1996                6    Task Team Leader (1), Education
                                             Specialist (1), Education
                                             Specialist - Consultant (1), Social
                                             Sector Specialist (1), NGO
                                             Specialist (1), Community
                                             Participation Specialist -
                                             Consultant (1)
              10/22/1996                1    Economist/Cost Effectiveness
                                             Specialist (1)
              12/02/1996                6    Task Team Leader (1), Education
                                             Specialist (2), Institutional
                                             Strengthening Specialist (1),
                                             Education Economist (1), Social
                                             Sector Specialist (1)
              02/02/1997                7    Task Team Leader (1), Education
                                             Specialist (1), Institutional
                                             Strengthening Specialist (1),
                                             Social sector Specialist (1),
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1), Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Project Assistant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/09/1997                7    Task Team Leader (1),
                                             Education Specialist (1),
                                             Institutional Strengthening
                                             Specialist (1), Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1), Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Project Assistant (1)
              09/17/1997              11     Task Team Leader (1), Lawyer
                                             (1), Disbursement Officer (1),
                                             Disbursement Analyst (1),
                                             Procuremente Specialist (1),
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1), Institutional Strengthening
                                             Specialist (1), Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1), Project Assistant
                                             (1), Financial Products



                                              - 39 -

                            Specialists (2)

Supervision
           01/22/1998    1  Task Team Leader (1)
           02/05/1998    1  Task Team Leader (1)                S    S
           04/26/1998    7  Task Team Leader (1), Financial     S    S
                            Management Specialist (2),
                            Procurement Specialist (1),
                            Social Sector Specialist (1),
                            Education Specialist (1),
                            Community Participation
                            Specialist - Consultant (1)
           09/27/1998    4  Task Team Leader (1), Social        S    S
                            Sector Specialist (1),
                            Procurement Specialist (1),
                            Institutional Strenthening
                            Specialist (1)
           02/27/1999    4  Task Team Leader (1),               S    S
                            Operations Specialist -
                            Consultant (1), Social Sector
                            Specialist (1), Education
                            Specialist - Consultant (1)
           06/01/1999    7  Task Team Leader (1), Education     S    S
                            Specialist (2), Education
                            Specialist - Consultant (1),
                            Procurement Analyst (1),
                            Operations Specialist -
                            Consultant (1)
           07/17/1999    1  Social Sector Specialist (1)        S    S
           12/15/1999       Task Team Leader (1), Social        S    S
                            Sector Specialist (1), Operations
                            Specialist - Consultant (1),
                            Education Specialist (1)
           07/30/2000    11 Task Team Leader (1) Education      U    S
                            Specialist (1), Education
                            Specialist - Consultant (1),
                            Operations Analyst - Consultant
                            (1), Institutional Strengthening
                            Specialist - Consultant (1),
                            Information Systems Specialist -
                            Consultant (1), Financial
                            Management Specialist -
                            Consultant (1), Operations
                            Assistant (1), Procurement
                            Specialist - Consultant (1),
                            Decentralization Specialist -
                            Consultant (1), Impact
                            Evaluation Specialist -
                            Consultant (1)
           03/06/2001    7  Task Team Leader (1),               U    S
                            Institutional Strengthening
                            Specialist - Consultant (1),
                            Information Systems Specialist -




                            - 40 -

                                                     Consultant (1), Procurement
                                                     Analyst (1), Procurement
                                                     Specialist - Consultant (1),
                                                     Financial Management Specialist
                                                     (2)
               06/07/2001                        6   Task Team Leader (1),                       S                S
                                                     Institutional Strengthening
                                                     Specialist - Consultant (1),
                                                     Consultant (1), Information
                                                     Systems Specialist - Consultant
                                                     (1), Impact Evaluation Specialist
                                                     - Consultant (1), Procurement
                                                     Specialist (1)
               12/17/2001                        4   Task Team Leader (1),                       S                S
                                                     Paticipation Specialist -
                                                     Consultant (1), Information
                                                     Systems Specialist - Consultant
                                                     (1), Procurement Specialist -
                                                     Consultant (1)
               06/14/2002                        4   Task Team Leader (1), Impact                S                S
                                                     Evaluation Specialist -
                                                     Consultant (1), Participation
                                                     Specialist - Consultant (1),
                                                     Information Systems Specialist -
                                                     Consultant (1)
               12/09/2002                        4   Task Team Leader (1), Impact                S                S
                                                     Evaluation Specialist -
                                                     Consultant (1), Education
                                                     Specialist (Coverage) -
                                                     Consultant (1), Financial
                                                     Specialist - Consultant (1)

 ICR
               11/15/2003                       5    Task Team Leader (1),                       S                S
                                                     Education Specialist (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     53.95                       115,473.02
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          23.04                        64,020.26
  Supervision                                    48.19                       320,552.00
  ICR                                            15.31                        19,560.84
  Total                                         140.49                       519,606.12
Note: The number of staff weeks for Identification and Preparation is only an estimate since it is not provided by
SAP. Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs, since disaggregate figures are not
provided by SAP.




                                                     - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


                                   Study                                    Year
Bank preparation documents
Municipal Zoning Study                                                1996/97
Study of Infrastructure Needs of the Municipality's Public Schools    1997
Analysis of Indebtedness Capacity                                     1997
Analysis of Sectoral Resources                                        1997
Study of Fiscal and economic Impact                                   1997
Bank project implementation documents
QER Meeting Review                                                    1996
Education Coverage Analysis                                           2000
Main Documents prepared by the Borrower during project
implementation
Analysis of Achievement Tests                                         2001
Organization of Educational Statistics                                2002/03
Study of Success Factors (Factores Asociados)                         2001
Pasto Education Development Plan                                      2001/03
Strategic Plan of the SEM                                             2000
Descentralize Management Education in Pasto (Case Study)              2001
Impact Evaluation Model                                               2000
Pedagogical Qualification and Companion Measures Plan                 2001
Education, Equity and Competitiveness in Pasto                        2003/2004
External Audit Report 2003                                            1998,1999,2000,
                                                                      2001, 2002, 2003
Impact Evaluation Study, CEDE, Uniandes                               2003




                                                  - 44 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's comments

Original comments in Spanish

A)      OBJETIVOS DE DESARROLLO

El Proyecto del Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación, desarrollado entre 1997 y el 2003, sin duda,
generó nuevas y positivas condiciones, administrativas, pedagógicas y financieras en la prestación del
servicio educativo. El mayor logro consistió en la contribución que este hizo para hacer de la educación en
Pasto una prioridad tanto para la administración como para la comunidad en general, así como en la
transparencia y despolitización del sistema educativo en el Municipio. Un aspecto importante de resaltar es
la motivación, participación y compromiso de la comunidad para conocer y apoyar la administración del
sector educativo.

La forma de ver la inversión del Estado en el sector educativo cambió radicalmente. Se acabó con una
serie de perversiones y se pasó al esquema del beneficio común, fundamentado en los principios de la
descentralización y transparencia enfatizando en el uso de herramientas de planeación, con diagnósticos e
inventarios de necesidades, concertando y priorizando la solución de dichos problemas con la comunidad
educativa y la sociedad en general. Los fondos de Servicios Docentes (ahora Educativos) y los Fondos de
Servicios de Red fueron un apoyo clave, en el manejo de las inversiones del Proyecto que permitieron a
los directivos y en general a la comunidad educativa aprender a manejar los recursos del Estado. Ellos
propiciaron una gran cohesión de la comunidad educativa, alrededor de la institución educativa, su
administración y el mejoramiento en la calidad del servicio educativo que el municipio ofrece.

Desde el diseño del Proyecto, siempre estuvo presente el principio de equidad. Las mayores inversiones se
realizaron en el sector rural y el urbano marginal - sectores deprimidos económica y socialmente- del
municipio. Sector que históricamente era marginado de los proyectos de desarrollo. Evidencia de esto se
observa en la inversión que por alumno se hizo en las Redes rurales ($43.000 pesos por alumno, mientras
que en el área urbana estuvo entre $13.000 pesos y $16.000 pesos por alumno).

El Proyecto se diseñó con base en el principio y la estrategia de participación comunitaria y lo logró. El
espacio que las Redes, a través de la formulación de los PDR, así como la ejecución de las NEBIS abrió
para que las comunidades conocieran las instituciones educativas, identificaran sus debilidades y fortalezas,
los padres de familia entendieran y aceptaran la responsabilidad que tienen en la educación de sus hijos, y
en general todos aprendieran a usar herramientas de planeación, concertación, priorización y hacer buen
uso de los recursos del Estado. Hoy, puede decirse con razón, que el Proyecto fue determinante para la
transformación del Sistema Educativo en Pasto.

En el caso de las Redes, hay que entender que a pesar de su debilitamiento, hacia el final del Proyecto, sus
principios, enseñanzas y experiencias lograron trascender y formar comunidad educativa en Pasto. Su
debilitamiento se dio fundamentalmente por el conflicto existente entre los Directores de Núcleos y la
constitución de las redes en donde estos primeros siempre los vieron como una amenaza a la desaparición
de la figura de Núcleos educativos. La administración municipal tuvo que negociar con ellos haciéndolos
responsables de la coordinación de la Redes ya constituidas. En varias de ellas, no muchas, el papel de los
jefes de núcleos como coordinadores de redes fue exitosa y se fortalecieron los procesos para la
formulación de los proyectos que finalmente fueron aprobados.




                                                   - 45 -

La experiencia de las redes tuvo impacto en el ámbito nacional ya que actuaron como una experiencia
piloto, fundamentalmente en dos aspectos: (i) en la forma de solucionar el problema de cupos cuando los
alumnos pasan de primaria a secundaria y a media; (ii) en la forma de integrar las instituciones educativas
y aprovechar mejor los recursos físicos, humanos, pedagógicos y financieros, (iii) en la capacidad que se
genera en las instituciones fortalecidas para administrar recursos e invertirlos en las necesidades de las
instituciones, entre otros. El resultado de esta experiencia piloto se concreta en establecido en la Ley 715,
que reglamenta la integración de las instituciones bajo estos principios y los hace obligatorios para el país.
Por tanto, en el caso de las Redes es necesario hacer una evaluación que articule la dinámica con el
acontecer político de los últimos años en Pasto -el Proyecto traspasó tres administraciones- con el ánimo de
decidir sobre su futuro.

La dinámica del Proyecto permitió potenciar la participación de la comunidad educativa, utilizando e
impulsando instancias ya constituidas y normatizadas como es el caso del gobierno escolar. Estos
mecanismos existen desde la Ley 115 o Ley de Educación, pero la comunidad educativa o no los conocía o
no existían los mecanismos para acercarse a la institución educativa y ejerces sus derechos en bien de la
educación.     En este caso el Proyecto logró articular la posibilidad de apoyar el ejercicio de la
administración de la escuela con la activación de esta instancia de participación y lograr la autonomía
institucional, promovida como uno de los principios de la descentralización.

Hoy, la educación en Pasto tiene otra cara. Además de cambios administrativos y pedagógicos, la dotación
e infraestructura con la que el municipio cuenta para atender el servicio social de educación es
completamente diferente a la que tenía al iniciar el Proyecto: los ambientes educativos son más adecuados,
los espacios físicos son apropiados para interactuar, existen herramientas pedagógicas y material didáctico
apropiado. Esto dignificó la educación pública en el municipio, y mejoró las relaciones entre los diferentes
actores.

Lo anterior está directamente relacionado con lo que el Proyecto alcanzó en cobertura. Pasto no tienen en
estos momentos ni a mediano plazo problemas de cobertura. Esto a pesar, incluso, de que el sector privado
se debilitó debido a la recesión económica del país con la que tuvo que convivir el Proyecto, y el sector
oficial se vio presionado para recibir los estudiantes que abandonaron las escuelas privadas, también
recibió el crecimiento normal de la población que para el caso de Pasto es uno de los más altos del País
(aproximadamente 2.15% anual) y la población desplazada por la violencia.

En lo pedagógico, las nuevas y positivas condiciones relacionadas con la enseñanza y el aprendizaje pueden
verse, con mayor énfasis, en algunas áreas de la educación. En efecto, la enseñanza de las matemáticas se
fortaleció, así como los modelos de gestión escolar, especialmente en el sector rural y en el ciclo de
preescolar. Tareas todas que deberán tener diferentes pero decididos grados de continuidad. Por su parte,
las redes educativas cumplieron con el objetivo de brindar al servicio educativo una cooperación vertical
entre las diferentes instituciones, es decir, en ordenar la matrícula, garantizando la prestación del servicio
en todos los niveles, sin los traumatismos, que antes eran comunes, en el momento de pasar de la primaria
a la secundaria o de esta a la media.

B)       LOGROS

Calidad de la educación

Al finalizar el Proyecto la educación en Pasto presenta los siguientes resultados en Calidad de la
Educación: Los resultados de Pasto, estuvieron por encima del promedio nacional y en tuvo mejor


                                                     - 46 -

desempeño el área de lenguaje. En Pasto por tradición hay un buen manejo gramatical de la lengua
castellana, en comparación con el resto del país.

En las dos áreas en matemáticas y lenguaje, la mejoría se dio en favor de matemáticas. La evaluación
mostró que las características y manejo de los materiales educativos contribuyeron a estos alcances. El
material didáctico permitió en matemáticas       materializar a través del juego los conceptos abstractos
facilitando el aprendizaje. El proyecto contrató con Corpoeducación una consultoría en Gestión Escolar y
Enseñanza de las Matemáticas; este acompañamiento desencadenó una revisión de la coherencia de los
currículos con los procesos de enseñanza en el aula.

Los resultados de las pruebas muestran que el sector rural obtuvo los mayores beneficios de los procesos
de mejoramiento de la calidad, pues las Redes rurales que tuvieron el más bajo desempeño en 1997
mejoraron significativamente, contribuyendo a cerrar la brecha entre lo urbano y lo rural. Una posible
explicación está en el acompañamiento realizado por la Universidad de Pamplona a las instituciones
rurales las metodologías activas que por su orientación potencia simultáneamente tanto la matemática como
el lenguaje, y los PEI Rurales que acercan los colegios a la cotidianidad productiva del entorno del
estudiante.


       Cuadro 1: Porcentaje de estudiantes del sector público que alcanzan el Nivel D.
       SABER 98-99 y SABER 03
       Matemáticas                     % Alumnos que alcanzan o superan el nivel
                                   3°               5°               7°              9°
       Nivel de logro D       97-98 2003 97-98        2003     97-98 2003       97-98   2003
                               16.6   41.6     24.4     39       2.4     13      1.8      18
       Lenguaje                        % Alumnos que alcanzan o superan el nivel
                                   3°               5°               7°              9°
       Nivel de logro D       97-98 2003 97-98        2003     97-98 2003       97-98   2003
                               41.7    23      7.9      66      14.7     41     21.0      40


Cobertura

El acceso a la educación mejoró, notándose principalmente en un aumento por encima del crecimiento de la
población en edad escolar y en la recepción que el sector oficial hizo de la deserción presentada en el sector
privado, como consecuencia de la crisis económica


Total de Alumnos Matriculados en Pasto por Nivel Educativo
Nivel Educativo             1997-1998 1998-1999 1999-2000 2000-2001 2001-2002 2002-2003
Preescolar**                8,311      8,490        9,246         9,069       9,419       10,066
Primaria                    37,531     41,556       40,649        41,347      42,471      42,497
Secundaria                  25,662     26,584       26,793        27,406      27,191      28,489
Media                       11,318     11,005       10,824        10,405      10,717      10,976
TOTAL                       82,822     87,635       87,512        88,227      89,798      92,028

En la tabla anterior se puede ver como la matrícula tuvo un crecimiento absoluto de 9.206 estudiantes,
equivalente al 11.1%.



                                                   - 47 -

         Participación del Sector Oficial en el Total de Matrícula en Pasto
         Nivel Educativo      1998-1999 1999-2000 2000-2001 2001-2002 2002-2003
         Preescolar           59.8%        64.1%       66.1%        70.8%       82.7%
         Primaria             83.4%        83.8%       84.5%        85.6%       85.8%
         Secundaria           79.5%        80.3%       83.1%        82.6%       85.9%
         Media                74.4%        75.7%       76.3%        76.8%       81.6%
         TOTAL                78.8%        79.7%       81.2%        82.0%       85.1%



En la información de la participación del sector oficial en el total de la matrícula, se observa que esta pasa
del 78.8% en 1998-99 a 85.1% en el 2002-2003. Analizando esta información nos permite concluir que el
aumento de cupos en el sector oficial fue de 7. 284 estudiantes, más, 1.220 subsidios en instituciones
privadas sin ánimo de lucro (el 90% niños de la calle y el 10% niños desplazados), para un total de 8.504
cupos generados por el municipio durante el periodo.

C)       LOGROS POR COMPONENTE Y SUBCOMPONENTE

Atención a NEBIS

Las necesidades básicas educativas aún existen, son mínimas en relación con las existentes al inicio del
Proyecto. La educación en Pasto ha cambiado la cara de las instituciones, y con ello se han producido
cambios fundamentales en sus ambientes físicos y académicos.

Por otro lado, las diferentes dotaciones entregadas (bibliotecas de aula, material didáctico, maletines
musicales, salas de informática, material didáctico para preescolar, salas de computo y mobiliario escolar)
permiten que junto a la infraestructura, se den los elementos necesarios para generar cambios en las
prácticas pedagógicas.

Dos de los valores agregados más interesantes de esta parte del proyecto fueron: primero, el cambio de
actitud de los directivos docentes en relación con su gestión al interior de la institución. Los docentes
aprendieron a ejecutar un proyecto, incluyendo los procesos de planeación, administración, seguimiento y
rendición de cuentas para hacer así realidad el desarrollo de los Proyectos Educativos Institucionales (PEI).
Segundo, la comunidad educativa se apropió de los proyectos que se realizaban en su entorno a través de
los comités de veeduría y en otros casos, la participación activa en el desarrollo del proyecto de la
institución, logrando, además, que los recursos rindieran en un 5% más de lo presupuestado.               Esto
representa de alguna manera el nivel de descentralización que el municipio ha brindado a la educación.

El proyecto contribuyó con la construcción de la Ciudadela Sur Oriental. Así mismo se hicieron 571 obras,
entre: 245 aulas (138 nuevas, 92 sustituidas y 15 adecuadas), 15 escuelas remodeladas, 102 baterías
sanitarias remodeladas y 208 entre otras obras. Estas obras solucionaron problemas que presentaban altos
niveles de riesgo para los niños, niñas, jóvenes y docentes que ahí convivían.

Fortalecimiento Institucional

En Colombia, a partir de enero de 2003 los 43 municipios mayores de 100.000 habitantes manejan su
educación. Pasto, como parte de la negociación con la Nación para poder preparar y ejecutar este Proyecto



                                                    - 48 -

buscó su certificación y se convirtió en el primer municipio descentralizado.             El espíritu de la
descentralización, es hacer que el municipio, maneje con responsabilidad, apropiación y buen criterio su
educación. Pasto con el proyecto ha recorrido un camino de aprendizajes sobre la administración de su
educación y la prestación de un mejor servicio educativo.

Algunos de los aspectos fundamentales en los que el proyecto demuestra su intervención son los siguientes,
teniendo en como referente la Ley 715:

1.       Pasto avanzó en la articulación de las instituciones en 2 vías: (i) una cooperación horizontal entre
las instituciones (unificando criterios y procesos pedagógicos administrativos y financieros) y, (ii) con una
cooperación vertical donde las instituciones de la Red aseguran la articulación entre los diferentes niveles
de formación, posibilitando acceso a los estudiantes para pasar de un nivel a otro sin traumatismos. Al
respecto, la ley 715 exige la conformación de colegios completos: (un rector, una administración, una
planta docente por cada institución educativa independiente del número de jornadas. Con esto ha liberado
cargos directivos, de funcionarios que pasan a hacer docencia.

2.       Los fondos de servicios docentes y su gestión por parte de los rectores han sido sustento en la
operatividad e implementación del Proyecto. Todas las instituciones educativas recibieron transferencias
(cerca de $4.700.000.000). Esto aportó mayores niveles de participación, motivación y empoderamiento
del Proyecto. Hoy, la Ley 715 establece un marco legal para que las instituciones educativas puedan
manejar recursos y contratar, con esto se propone convertir los Fondos en verdaderos Fondos de servicios
educativos.

3.       Pasto aplicó a nivel censal en 1998 la evaluación de logros a los grados de 3º, 5º,7º y 9º. La
segunda aplicación la hizo en abril de 2003. El Decreto 230 de 2002 deposita en las instituciones la
responsabilidad de la calidad educativa. Se evaluará a partir de estándares curriculares cada tres años.

4.       Desde 1996 Pasto diseñó el Plan de Mejoramiento, con la finalidad de ampliación de cobertura con
calidad y calidez. La ley responsabiliza a los entes descentralizados a partir de 2003 de la calidad y la
cobertura de la educación en su municipio.

Estos aspectos anteriores son solo unos ejemplos del camino que Pasto ha recorrido y que para los
próximos años y a mediano plazo serán fundamentales en el desarrollo de la calidad de la educación en el
municipio y en el País.

Creación de Redes

Las redes educativas son un modelo de gestión descentralizada del servicio educativo en el municipio de
Pasto, que como característica principal posibilita la efectiva participación de la comunidad educativa.

EL desarrollo del Proyecto generó en la comunidad educativa procesos de participación, organización y
formación, conducentes al análisis de su realidad y a la formulación y gestión de un plan de desarrollo
educativo contextualizado. Además, de haber garantizado la implementación participativa de los Planes de
Desarrollo de Red, que fueron eficientemente articulados al Proyecto de Formulación Participativa del
Presupuesto Municipal.

Permitió el desarrollo del proyecto que las comunidades orienten sus procesos de organización y formación
a partir del conocimiento de su propia realidad, necesidades y capacidades, para definir alternativas de
solución a los problemas más sentidos.


                                                     - 49 -

Su desarrollo preparó al municipio para asumir con mayor propiedad los nuevos requerimientos del marco
jurídico establecido por la ley 715.      Es decir, Pasto había ya recorrido un camino con relación al
acercamiento de las instituciones que hoy, como lo exige la ley, serán fusionadas.

Por otra parte, a través de este componente se establecieron proyectos comunes a las redes: (i) como
proceso de demanda de las redes, la SEM estableció un modelo de asistencia técnica y acompañamiento
pedagógico en las áreas de Gestión escolar, matemáticas y escuela nueva; (ii) se estableció un proyecto de
formación musical del cual hacen parte 6 redes, como espacio alternativo para el fortalecimiento de los
valores y de la convivencia, y (iii) se adecuaron y dotaron 7 salas de informática, y se estableció un modelo
de conectividad del sector educativo.

En el proceso de desarrollo de las Redes, se tuvieron que enfrentar problemas como: (i) la lucha por el
poder de los Directores de Núcleo con los directivos de Red que entorpeció el fortalecimiento de las Redes
y desgastó tanto a la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto como a la misma SEM en la búsqueda y ensayo de
diferentes formas para solucionar el conflicto; y (ii) el cambio de administración del municipio que
coincidió con la presentación de los PDRs para su aprobación y financiación, lo que generó lentitud y
retardos, en la aprobación y financiación de los proyectos, ocasionando la no credibilidad en las Redes por
parte de la comunidad educativa y su desaliento en el empuje que traía.




D)      IMPACTO EN LA CAPACIDAD INSTITUCIONAL DE LA SECRETARIA DE
EDUCACIÓN, DE LAS REDES Y DE LOS COLEGIOS

El Proyecto dotó a la Secretaría de educación de los insumos necesarios (infraestructura, equipos de
oficina, computadoras, capacitación) para que ésta potenciara su gestión. Tal vez el logro mayor del
Proyecto es la capacidad instalada en las instituciones educativas, que a través de los fondos de servicios
educativos, gestionaron sus propios proyectos relacionados con su proyecto educativo institucional PEI.

Durante y dadas las exigencias del proyecto, hoy la Secretaría cuenta con información que le permiten
disponer de un diagnóstico actualizado del sector para apoyar y afianzar sus decisiones, elaborar proyectos
y orientar las inversiones hacia los sectores más necesitados.

El fortalecimiento de la SEM se logró en la instauración de una cultura de la evaluación. En efecto, al
inicio del Proyectos (1998-1999) y al final de él (2003) se aplicaron a nivel censal las pruebas SABER y de
factores asociados, herramientas fundamentales para la evaluación y la planificación de las inversiones en
el sector educativo, sobre todo, en aspectos como la cualificación de los docentes, la dotación de materiales
didácticos pertinentes y su relación con el mejoramiento de la práctica pedagógica en el aula.

E)      FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LOS RESULTADOS DEL PROYECTO

Factores que estuvieron por fuera del control del Municipio o del Banco

Sin lugar a dudas, la ejecución del Proyecto fue acompañada por un cambio continuo y radical de la
normatividad del sector. Además, estos cambios fueron de poca acogida por los actores directos con los
que el Proyecto trabajó, tal es el caso, de la racionalización del sector, la integración de las instituciones
educativas y la evaluación de los docentes y directivos docentes




                                                    - 50 -

Por otro lado, la política monetaria que se manejó durante la ejecución del Proyecto, aunque benefició las
inversiones (más aún cuando el Proyecto no adquirió bienes y servicios provenientes del exterior), produjo
desfases en la planificación y ejecución del mismo.

Factores que estaban bajo el control del Gobierno

A pesar de que en los últimos años la Administración Municipal se ha modernizado en sus procesos y
procedimientos, aún no es lo suficientemente ágil. Esto trajo consigo importantes retrasos en la ejecución
del Proyecto.

La normatividad del Gobierno y la que el Proyecto convino ocasionó algunas dificultades en funcionarios
que por su nivel fueron claves durante la ejecución del Proyecto, causando algunas demoras y trabas en la
ejecución y algún grado de desgaste de los funcionarios. Sin duda, una actitud contraria hubiere redundado
en mayores capacidades de ejecución y alcance de logros.

F)      COSTOS Y FINANCIAMIENTO (SOSTENIBILIDAD)

Sostenibilidad: entre los factores que se pueden mencionar como elementos de sostenibilidad del
mejoramiento de la educación en Pasto atribuibles a las acciones del proyecto están: (i) el cambio de actitud
de los directivos y los docentes en favor de la calidad del servicio educativo que se presta, (ii) el
compromiso logrado en los padres de familia con la responsabilidad de la educación de sus hijos, expresado
en acciones de veeduría y seguimiento tanto a las obras físicas en las escuelas como a los proyectos
pedagógicos, (iii) la responsabilidad asumida por la SEM en la administración del servicio educativo y el
reconocimiento de su autodeterminación (autonomía) como municipio certificado, entre otros.

G)      DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO

Podemos asegurar que la experiencia de Pasto se vio fortalecida por el excelente acompañamiento brindado
por el Banco Mundial, el que se caracterizó por los siguientes aspectos:

a.      Asesoría técnica en la implementación del proyecto. No solo en la parte operativa de la ejecución:
gestión financiera, adquisiciones, etcétera, sino en aspectos que como la gestión pedagógica eran
intencionalidades que en el Proyecto no estaban definidas con precisión.

b.      Capacidad de concertación. El proyecto es visto en el municipio como una política de estado por
haber trascendido a 3 administraciones diferentes.       En cada cambio era necesario enterar y hacer
comprender el Proyecto. Fácilmente los objetivos y filosofía del Proyecto pudieron haber cambiado
drásticamente. Ahí reconocemos un acompañamiento decidido del Banco que contribuyó a que aunque el
Proyecto se ajustara, estos cambios no representaran un divorcio con los objetivos y filosofía del Proyecto.

c.      El Banco fue oportuno en los procesos establecidos con el convenio de crédito: desembolsos, No
Objeciones y recomendaciones en general y seguimiento continuo a la ejecución y logros del Proyecto.`




                                                   - 51 -

Additional Annex 9. Endnotes


1/Certification is an administrative procedure which g
rants autonomy and resources to the Mayor's office to manage education autonomously

2/University of the Andes, Economics Department, Center for Economic Development Research
(CEDE), "Document Assessing the Results and Impact of Projects to Improve Educational
Quality in Antioquia and Pasto," Document 1, "Results for the Municipality of Pasto," November
2003.

3/Law 715 of 2001 aims at increasing the degree of decentralization in the education sector. The
two main requirements of the law are (i) the reorganization of the schools and (ii) a reliable
information system, which is needed at the school and Municipality level to manage the capitation
system

4/The results presented in table 5 are based on up-to-date information supplied by the Borrower
in March 2004, which is why there is a discrepancy with the data presented in Annex 8 (Partner
Comments) that had been supplied in December 2003.

5/The lower level of implementation was due to two factors: the lack of land for the construction
of new schools, and sub-contracting to private schools.

6/The minga is an organizational approach derived from indigenous communities, under which
days of work benefiting the community are provided

7/This law predated Law 715 of 2001, and determined the amounts to be transferred by the
national government to territorial entities as well as the eligibility for investment of the funds
received.




                                               - 52 -

Additional Annex 10. Map




                            - 53 -

- 54 -

