Page  1
July 9, 1997
Dr. Cecilia López Montaño
Director
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Calle 26 No. 13-19
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Dr. Antonio Navarro Wolf
Alcalde
Municipality of Pasto
Alcaldía Municipal
San Juan de Pasto
Colombia
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Pasto Education Project
Grant Number TF -  027066
Dear Drs. López Montaño and Navarro Wolf:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to the 
request of the Republic of Colombia (the Recipient) to carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 
(b) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement valued in an amount not exceeding one hundred twenty seven 
thousand six hundred dollars in the currency of the United States of America ($127,600) (the Grant).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for assistance as per its letter of 
April 2, 1997 and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the aforesaid Annex. The 
Recipient and the Municipality of Pasto hereby confirm their request that the Bank carry out the activities 
described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Municipality of Pasto, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. 
Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT/INTERNATIONAL
By /s/ Andrés Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
By /s/ Cecilia López Montaño
Director, Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Date: July 25, 1997
AGREED:
MUNICIPALITY OF PASTO
By /s/ Antonio Navarro Wolf
      Alcalde
      Alcaldía Municipal de San Juan de Pasto
Date: August 8, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
(a)
Definitions
:
For purposes of this Annex the following terms shall have the following meaning:
(i)
“Project” means a project design to support the Municipality in its endeavors to improve 
the provision of basic education services to is population; and
(ii)
“Municipality” means the Municipality of San Juan de Pasto, a Territorial Entity in 
terms of the Recipient’s Constitution.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities), more specifically described in the Grant 
Page  3
proposal, and submitted by the Bank to the Japanese authorities on December 17, 1996, for 
which the Grant is given are as follows:
(b)
Technical assistance activities (Activities)
:
(i)
Assisting in establishing a monitoring and evaluation system for all activities under the 
Project and the required dissemination strategy;
(ii)
preparation of technical specifications and, in general, drafting of model bidding and 
other types of procurement documents consistent with Bank Guidelines for Procurement 
and for Selection and Employment of Consultants, and Bank Standard model bidding 
documents to be used and caused to be used by the Municipality in the carrying out of 
the Project;
(iii)
assisting in establishing a financial information and audit control system within the 
Municipality which will serve as an early warning for Project implementation problems 
and allow the Municipality early corrective action to solve them;
(iv)
developing efficient managerial arrangements within the Municipality’s  Education 
Secretariat for the implementation of the Project, including drafting of the required 
manuals for Project implementation; 
(v)
expanding the geographic and socio-economic study on the subdivision of the Municipal 
territory in networks, which was completed approximately in February 1997; and 
(vi)
assist the Municipality in studying and disseminating lessons, including travel tours for 
these purposes, on school-based management, community participation and pedagogical 
innovation; through: (A) studies on education and management processes and systems in 
Colombia and other countries; and (B) dissemination programs of applicable aspects of 
said experiences.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants and other service providers (the Consultants) 
required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient and the Municipality. The 
Recipient and the Municipality shall, through the Recipient’s National Planning Department, and 
the Municipality’s Educational Secretariat, respectively, cooperate with the Bank to the extent 
necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate 
the results of the Activities. The Recipient and the Municipality shall indemnify the Bank against 
any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection 
with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its 
staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by April 30, 1998.  After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants and other service providers required to assist 
in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be 
done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
Page  4
6.
The Recipient and the Municipality shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, 
or in the territory of, the Recipient and the Municipality, respectively, on the Consultants or any 
of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection 
with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient and the Municipality, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient or the Municipality have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient or for the Municipality and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient or the Municipality. Neither the Recipient nor the 
Municipality shall have any right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank 
pursuant to this Agreement.
