Page  1
June 11, 1998
Mr. Jimmy Pedrero Narvaez 
Mayor of Pasto 
Alcaldía Municipal de Pasto 
Carrera 25, Calle 19 
Esquina Pasto-Nariño, 
Pasto Colombia
COLOMBIA:
Loan 4242-CO (Pasto Education Project) - Amendment to the Loan 
Agreement
This is in connection with the Loan Agreement for the above Project between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Municipio de 
Pasto (the Borrower) dated December 15, 1997 (the Loan Agreement) and the request made 
by you, on behalf of the Borrower, by means of your letter to the Bank dated April 28, 
1998 and the attachments thereto. 
We are pleased to be able to respond favorably to your request for a new 
Category of disbursements under the Loan Agreement in order to finance partially with 
Loan proceeds, on a declining basis, the recurrent expenditures to supplement the 
stipends currently received by eighteen teachers and four regular staff members of the 
Education Secretariat (ES) of the Borrower. We understand that the teachers in 
question are currently and provisionally assisting the ES in the task of its 
institutional strengthening under Part B.1 of the Project. We also understand that the 
supplement in question will help restore the income of said teachers to the levels 
they had previously reached when discharging their teaching responsibilities, 
absorbing thus part of the loss temporarily suffered while discharging the aforesaid 
important tasks for the Project.  Furthermore, we understand that the four regular ES 
staff are performing functions that are critical to a successful Project 
implementation and that the salary supplement for these staff members is part of the 
first phase of a general salary review for all ES staff which will compensate said 
personnel for the increased responsibilities and workloads assumed through the 
administrative decentralization process known as certificación.
In order to do the above, we propose making the following amendments to the Loan 
Agreement. Please note that unless otherwise required by the context, the terms 
defined in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions have, in this letter, the 
meanings therein set forth.
1.
The Table of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement is hereby modify to 
read as follows: the amount of Loan proceeds allocated in the existing Category 6 of 
the Table, titled "Unallocated", is hereby reduced to 500,000; existing Category 5 is 
hereby renumbered as Category 5-A and a new Category 5-B is added to the Table, to 
read as follows:
"Salary Incentives" 
100,000 
70% until disbursements shall have 
reached the amount of
$55,000; 45% thereafter until
disbursements shall have
reached the amount of 
$85,000; and 30% thereafter"
2.
The following is hereby added after "1997" at the end of paragraph 2 of Schedule 
1 to the Loan Agreement, so as to insert a new subparagraph (c) into said paragraph 2:
"; and (c) ‘Salary Incentives" means the salary supplements to be paid by the 
Borrower to a) teachers while acting temporarily as staff of the Education Secretariat 
and occupying the following positions therein: (i) Secretary; (ii) Management 
Undersecretary; and (iii) 16 Pedagogical Advisers; and b) regular staff of the 
Education Secretariat of the Borrower occupying the following position therein: (i) 
Head of Planning; (ii) Administrative Undersecretary; (iii) Financial Undersecretary; 
(iv) Legal Adviser."
3.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as 
follows:
"4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
Page  2
basis of statements for expenditures for Salary Incentives and for goods works and 
services under contracts not subject to prior review according to the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower."
If you agree with the aforesaid, please confirm your agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower by signing and dating the attached form of confirmation and by obtaining the 
acknowledgment of the Republic of Colombia, as Guarantor, in the spaces provided for 
in the said form.
Sincerely,
Andrés Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Jimmy Pedrero Narvaez
Authorized Representative
Date: June 18, 1998
