Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4242-CO
Loan Agreement
(Pasto Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPIO DE PASTO
Dated December 15, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4242-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPIO DE PASTO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower being a Municipio (Municipality),  a political subdivision 
of the Guarantor and one of the types of Territorial Entities referred to in Article 
286 of the Guarantor’s Constitution, represents hereby to the Bank that: (i) it has 
met all standards and taken all action required from it as a borrower by the laws of 
the Guarantor, including but not limited to the Guarantor’s Law No. 358 of January 30, 
1997; and (ii) no action is required from the Departamento de Nariño (the Department, 
a political subdivision of the Guarantor and another type of the said Territorial 
Entities, in which jurisdiction the Borrower is located) to enable the Borrower to 
enter into this Loan Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower expects the Bank to rely on the aforesaid representation to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower;
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan;  and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 thereof as set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Approved Plan" means a Plan (as defined below) which has been approved 
for purposes of Project participation by the Education Secretariat, (as defined 
below), together with the Subprojects (as defined below) under such Plan, all in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, the FMM and the Procurement 
Manual (all three as defined below);
(b)
"Education Secretariat" and "Education Secretary" mean, respectively, the 
Borrower’s Education Secretariat and the head thereof;
(c)
"FMM" means a financial, management reporting and auditing manual to be 
issued by the Borrower’s Mayor pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Loan 
Agreement setting up the policies, rules, procedures, and requirements applicable at 
each level of activities undertaken for the carrying out of the Project, i.e. 
activities at the level of the Education Secretariat, Selected Schools and the 
Selected Red (as both terms are defined below), that will be cross-referenced to and 
in the Operational Manual (as defined below);
(d)
"Formal Education" means the education services for pre-school, basic and 
middle education to be provided by the Schools (as defined below) in the Borrower’s 
territory;
(e)
"Law 60" means the provisions of the Guarantor’s Law No. 60 of 1993, and 
those of its regulatory Decrees No. 2886 of 1994, and 179 and 1060 of 1995;
(f)
"Law 115" means the provisions of the Guarantor’s Law No. 115 of February 
8, 1994, and those of its regulatory Decrees No. 1857 and 1860 of 1994, 1140 and 2253 
of 1995 and 709 of 1996;
(g)
"Leader School" means the School (as defined below) within a Selected Red 
(as defined below) that will act, under the corresponding Red Resolution and after 
being legally recognized by the Borrower’s Mayor, through its Principal or the Red 
Coordinator, as the case may be, which shall perform, respectively, as administrator 
Page  3
and on behalf of the Borrower’s Mayor, the technical and pedagogical functions, and 
the functions of accounting, payment and collecting agent for the Red in question;
(h)
"Manual" and "Manuals" mean, unless otherwise required by the context, 
any of the FFM, Procurement Manual and Operational Manual, and collectively the three 
of them, respectively;
(i)
"Municipio" means Municipality, a political subdivision of the Guarantor, 
one of the types of Territorial Entities referred to in Article 286 of the Guarantor’s 
Constitution;
(j)
"Operational Manual" means a comprehensive manual to be issued by the 
Borrower’s Mayor pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement, 
setting up the policies, rules, criteria and procedures which shall be followed to 
select Schools for purposes of Part A of the Project, establish and organize Redes and 
select them for purposes of Project participation, for the processing of Transfers, 
for the preparation and execution of the applicable Approved Plan and the Subprojects 
thereunder and, in general, to carry out the Project pursuant to the provisions of 
this Agreement, such manual to be cross-referenced to and in the FMM and Procurement 
Manual;
(k)
"PDR" means Plan de Desarrollo de Red (Network Plan) a triennial 
education development plan for a Selected Red, prepared by such Red following the 
guidelines therefor of the Operational Manual and registered with the Education 
Secretariat, and related to: (i) execution of minor civil work required for 
maintenance and enhancement of the facilities used to provide Formal Education 
throughout the Red in question; (ii) individual and collective training and provision 
of communal education materials for, and institutional building of, such  Red for 
purposes of putting in practice pedagogical innovations; or (iii) tasks geared to the 
enhancement and expansion of community participation in the Formal Education provided 
by such  Red, or any combination thereof, all as specifically provided for such 
Selected Red in the corresponding Plan (as defined below);
(l)
"PEI" means Proyecto Educativo Institucional (Institutional Education 
Project) the periodic instrument to be prepared by each Selected School in accordance 
with the provisions of Law 115 to develop new pedagogical, administrative and 
participatory strategies to improve provision of Formal Education; 
(m)
"Pesos" means pesos in the currency of the Guarantor;
(n)
"Plan" means Plan Operativo Anual (Annual Operational Plan), an annual 
plan of Subprojects to be carried out under Part C. 3 of the Project during each year 
covered by the corresponding PDR period, prepared by a specific legally established 
and organized Red (as defined below) in pursuit of its educational objectives pursuant 
to the said PDR;
(o)
"Procurement Manual" means a manual to be issued by the Borrower’s Mayor 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement setting up the 
policies, rules, procedures and requirements applicable to all procurement of goods, 
works and consultant and other services required for the Project irrespective of 
whether such items are to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and that will 
be cross referenced to and in the Operational Manual;
(p)
"Project Account" means the account to be opened by the Borrower pursuant 
to paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement;
(q)
"Red" (Network) means the legally established and organized network of 
the educational community of a given area within the Borrower’s jurisdiction 
(including the corresponding Red Council, and Red Coordinator, both as defined below, 
Leader School and its Principal or Director) created with the purposes of, inter alia, 
sharing information, pedagogical innovations, use of buildings and teacher services, 
exchange teachers’ services and organizing collective training or recreational events, 
and "Redes" means, collectively, more than one Red;
(r)
"Red Account" means any of the special accounts to be opened by the 
Borrower for a given Selected Red pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of this 
Loan Agreement;
(s)
"Red Council" means the persons elected by the representatives of the 
education communities related to all the Schools of a given  Red to govern all 
activities of said  Red undertaken on behalf of the said Schools, once the election in 
question has been legally recognized by the Education Secretariat;
Page  4
(t)
"Red Coordinator" means the higher level School officer and/or teacher 
elected by a Red Council to coordinate all financial activities of the Red in question 
once the election in question has been legally recognized by the Education Secretariat 
and the Red in question has been legally established by means of the corresponding Red 
Resolution;
(u)
"Red Resolution" means each of the resolutions to be issued by the 
Borrower’s Mayor pursuant to, and in accordance with, the provisions of Sections 3.01 
(d) and 3.04 of this Agreement, for purposes of legally establishing a Selected Red, 
enabling it to participate in the Project, and delegating in the Red Coordinator of 
the Selected Red in question and the Principal or Director of the Leader School in 
question, respectively, the financial functions (including management of the 
corresponding Red Account), and the technical and pedagogical functions of the 
administration of the Selected Red in question;
(v)
"School" means a public school providing Formal Education within the 
Borrower’s jurisdiction;
(w)
"Selected Red" means a Red, as so defined, which has been created and 
organized to participate in the Project during a given period, and registered for that 
purpose by the Education Secretary, all in accordance with the applicable provisions 
of the Operational Manual;
(x)
"Selected School" means a School, as so defined, that has been selected 
by the Education Secretariat for purposes of one or more activities to be carried out 
under Part A of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual;
(y)
"Special Account" means the Borrower’s special account referred to in 
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(z)
"Subproject" means a given set of tasks which: (i) will be carried out by 
a Selected Red under an Approved Plan for purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, inter 
alia, through the procurement of goods, works or consultant or other services, or any 
combination thereof; and (ii) are intended to be financed partially with the proceeds 
of the Loan;
(aa)
"Table" means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Loan Agreement, as such table may be amended from time to time;
(bb)
"Transfer" means a non-reimbursable transfer made or to be made, as the 
context would require, by the Borrower to a Selected Red for purposes of the financing 
of one or more Approved Plans under Part C.3 of the Project, and which consists of the 
following two portions: (i) the Transfer Portion (as defined below); and (ii) a 
contribution by the Borrower to the Red in question made out of the Borrower’s own 
resources (other than Loan proceeds) under the terms of the applicable Red Resolution 
and designed, as shown in the Operational Manual, to cover the remainder of the costs 
of the Approved Plan or Plans in question; and
(cc)
"Transfer Portion" means the portion of a Transfer to be contributed by 
the Borrower under the terms of the applicable Red Resolution and financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, which portion shall be equivalent to the disbursement percentage 
applicable, from time to time, pursuant to the provisions of Category (4) of the 
Table.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to seven 
million two hundred thousand dollars ($7,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
Page  5
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of 
the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Borrower’s Finance Secretary or the person or persons 
appointed by him are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  6
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Education Secretariat and, in respect of Part C.3 of the 
Project, with the assistance of the corresponding Selected Redes, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, 
environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the letter from the Borrower’s Mayor to 
the Bank, dated September 24, 1997, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about August 15 in each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) (i) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date, the first such 
report to be furnished to the Bank in 1998 and the last one not 
later than two months before the Closing Date; and 
(iii)
review with the Bank, by September 30 in each year, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the corresponding report referred 
to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank views on the matter.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain the Manuals to be issued pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of this Loan Agreement until the date referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) hereof, and shall ensure that the provisions of the Manuals are 
applied by each Selected School and Selected Red at all times during Project 
execution; provided, however, that, recognizing the importance of testing the 
provisions thereof on the basis of the experience gained from Project execution by the 
Borrower and the Bank, said provisions shall be changed from time to time with 
previous approval of the Bank, or at any time the Bank, based on the said experience, 
reasonably requests a change.
(d)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly after a Red becomes a Selected Red able to 
participate in the Project, issue through its Mayor a Resolution establishing such 
Selected Red on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and following the model 
for such type of Resolutions accepted by the Bank for purposes of the Project by 
notice to the Borrower’s Mayor dated November 14, 1997; such model contains 
stipulations for the transfer of funds to the Selected Red in question, sets forth 
rules and procedures for said transfer and for the management of the funds to be so 
transferred and, in general terms, it also contains stipulations that shall cause the 
Selected Red in question and the authorities of said Red including the corresponding 
Red Coordinator, to take all actions required to enable the Borrower to comply with 
all the provisions of this Loan Agreement including, but not limited to, those related 
to:
(i)
maintaining the Red Account in question in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting and financial practices, 
facilitating the deposits of Borrower’s resources into said Red 
Account, as required to complete the funding of each Transfer, and 
keeping the records for, and auditing the said Account, in a 
manner that will enable the Borrower to comply with the provisions 
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and
(ii)
procuring, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  7
Agreement and the Procurement Manual, the goods, works and 
consultant services required for each Subproject under the 
applicable Approved Plan and to be financed under the 
corresponding Transfer.
It is hereby further agreed that any proposed departure from the model, referred to at 
the beginning of this paragraph (d) with respect to one or more of the Red 
Resolutions, shall be submitted for Bank’s approval before issuing the Red Resolution 
in question.
(e)
The Borrower shall not amend, terminate, or fail to enforce or waive or 
abrogate any of the Resolutions or any provision thereof, without the previous 
approval of the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall maintain, and cause each Red to enable the 
Borrower to maintain, the Project Account with a level of funds available therein 
which shall be at all times sufficient to cover the counterpart financing of 
expenditures to be financed under Categories (1) through (5) of the Table, until the 
date on which said Categories have been depleted.
Section 3.04  The Borrower shall: (a) open, before any Transfer is made to a 
Selected Red but not later than 15 days after the corresponding approval of the 
applicable Approved Plan for such Red and the Red Resolution in question shall have 
been issued in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, a special account in Pesos for each such Red, as required for the execution 
of Part C.3 of the Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (each of 
said accounts to be referred in this Agreement as Red Account); (b) deposit into each 
of such Red Accounts an amount in Pesos equivalent to the aggregate of estimated 
expenditures for the first four months of execution of the applicable Approved Plan 
and maintain said level of funds deposited while the Red Account in question remains 
open for purposes of funding an Approved Plan; and (c) delegate to the applicable Red 
Coordinator of each Red the management of the Red Account in question until such Red’s 
last Approved Plan in question has been fully executed.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause each Red: (i) to carry out each of the 
corresponding PDRs and Approved Plans, including the Subprojects thereunder; and (ii) 
not to modify any of them unless so agreed between the Bank and the Borrower and 
between the Borrower and the Red in question.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
provision of Formal Education, especially in connection with the Redes and the 
facilities included in the Project (whether they have been or not financed under the 
Loan); and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
agencies of the Borrower, including Selected Redes and Leader Schools, responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account and the Project 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by 
Page  8
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall secure, not later than thirty days after 
the Effective Date, the services of the auditors referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of 
such Section, at least for purposes of the audit of records and accounts corresponding 
to Project execution activities during 1998.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified provided, however, that if an event 
specified in any of the following paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) shall have occurred and 
be continuing the suspension of the Borrower’s right to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account may be limited by the Bank to withdrawals in respect of Project expenditures 
related to the Selected Red or Selected School affected, as the case may be.
(a)
Any Red Resolution shall have terminated in accordance with the terms 
under which it has been issued.
(b)
Law 60, Law 115, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower or a Selected Red to perform any of its obligations under a 
Municipality Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the amendment, supervision, abrogation, repeal or waiver of legal 
provisions enabling the current legal framework for one or more Selected Redes 
(including the corresponding Red Resolution) or for the closing of a Selected School 
or for the dissolution or disestablishment of a Selected Red or for the suspension of 
their respective operations, and the action in question, in the opinion of the Bank, 
shall have affected materially and adversely the carrying out of the Approved Plan of 
the Selected Red in question or any Subproject thereunder.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that one or more Red Resolutions may be enforced.
Page  9
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the FMM, the Procurement Manual and the Operational Manual have been 
issued in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) (i) a special account has been opened by the Borrower to be operated for 
purposes of securing at all times the availability of counterpart funds for the 
financing of the Project; and (ii) an amount in Pesos equivalent to the aggregate of 
estimated counterpart funds required to defray expenditures for the first three months 
of Project execution, calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
deposited into such account.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that each of the Red Resolutions, 
once issued by the Borrower’s Mayor following the model referred to in Section 3.01 
(d) of this Agreement, will be legally enforceable upon the Schools constituting the 
Red in question, including the Leader School of such Red and the Red Coordinator, in 
accordance with the respective terms thereof.
Section 6.03. The date of March 17, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Loan Agreement, the 
Mayor of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Alcaldía Municipal de Pasto
Carrera 25, Calle 19
Esquina Pasto-Nariño
Pasto, Colombia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written.
MUNICIPIO DE PASTO
Page  10
By  /s/ Antonio Navarro Wolff 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Felipe Saez 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works, other
2,900,000
65%
than works
financed under
Transfers
(2)
Goods, other
1,000,000
65%
than goods
financed under
Transfers
(3)
Consultant and
        800,000
70%
auditor services,
other than services
financed under
Transfers or under
Category 5 of this
Table, and
Training
(4)
Goods, works
1,600,000
70% until
and consultant
disbursements
services financed
shall have reached
under Transfers
the amount of
$1,400,000;
and 30% 
thereafter
(5)
ES Consultants
        300,000
69% until
disbursements
shall have reached
the amount of 
$200,000; and 45%
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
  600,000
TOTAL
      7,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the following terms have the following 
meaning: (a) "Training" means expenditures in respect of organizing, teaching in 
and/or attending to training sessions, workshops and seminars under Parts B.1 and C.1 
of the Project, including per diem and travel expenses for teachers, trainers and 
Page  11
attendants, and rentals for the corresponding facilities and instructional materials; 
and (b) "ES Consultants" means the positions in the Project implementation unit of the 
Borrower listed in the letter of the Borrower’s Mayor to the Bank dated September 24, 
1997.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $720,000, may be made in respect of all Categories of the Table other 
than Category 4 on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after May 15, 1997; and (b) disbursements made by the Borrower to a Selected Red, to 
be financed under Category 4 of the Table, unless the corresponding Red Resolution has 
been issued in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts not subject to prior review according to the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the capacity of public 
schools, education communities, and the Borrower’s education agencies, so as to enable 
each of them to provide effectively and in a participatory way their respective Formal 
Education; and (ii) to contribute to the Borrower’s goal of improving the quality of 
Formal Education, and student learning, school access and retention rates in its 
territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Unattended educational needs in and expansion of access
to formal education 
This Part of the Project will provide to Selected Schools a minimal level of 
indispensable educational resources, as shown below, as an incentive to such Schools 
and corresponding school communities for the establishment and development of their 
respective Redes.
1.
Strengthening of PEIs
(a) (i) facilitating the creation of organized teacher working groups which will 
discuss and develop solutions for the pedagogical issues pertaining to the Selected 
School in question, so as to enhance the capacity of such School to prepare its own 
PEI; and (ii) training of members of the groups so created in the preparation of 
specific pedagogical proposals to be included in the applicable PEI and in the 
following up, by the corresponding group, of the pedagogical issues so addressed;
(b)
making available to the groups referred to in (a) above permanent 
technical assistance for their endeavors, and evaluation of the groups’ activities; 
and
(c)
printing and distribution of self-training modules for strengthening the 
role of such  groups as catalysts of community participation in the preparation of the 
corresponding PEI.
2.
Provision to classrooms in Selected Schools of libraries, teaching tool kits and 
other pedagogical support  material, along with teacher training services on the use 
of said material and its maintenance.
3.
Minor rehabilitation of about 130 Selected Schools, mostly in rural and marginal 
urban areas and acquisition and utilization of about 5,000 student desks.
4.
Construction of: (a) one new School accommodating about 1,000 students; (b) five 
small Schools to replace existing Selected Schools with safety problems; and (c) about 
75 new additional classrooms in existing Selected Schools.
5.
Contracting, with appropriate non-profit private educational institutions 
Page  12
operating in the Borrower’s territories, the provision of Formal Education to groups 
of Borrower’s residents whose respective expenditures are eligible to be defrayed by 
the Borrower under the provisions of the Manuals.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of the Education Secretariat to coordinate the 
execution of the Project and to discharge its managerial and advisory roles in the 
promotion and establishment of Redes; (b) promoting the consolidation of an efficient 
education information system as a management tool; and (c) strengthening the 
administrative capacity of the various actors that participate in the establishment of 
the Redes and that will co-manage the Redes through their representatives in the Redes 
Councils, and the Principals or Directors of the corresponding Leader Schools, all by 
means of the execution of studies and provision of other technical assistance 
services, organization of workshops and training programs, and acquisition and 
utilization of office improvement services and acquisition of upgraded equipment.
2.
Execution of programs involving the education community participation in 
monitoring and information of Project outcomes. 
Part C:
Redes
1. 
Execution of promotional, training and institutional activities aimed at 
creating 12 Redes  within the territory of the Borrower, and support of their initial 
operation. The process shall be phased as follows: (a) studying the current operation 
of the spontaneous and informal community education networks currently operating in 
the Guarantor’s territories; (b) determining and taking the necessary steps to legally 
establish and organize five pilot Redes, and evaluating such Redes’ performances and 
experiences; and (c) then, on the basis of such evaluation, expand the Redes, if and 
as warranted, through the legal establishment and organization of seven additional 
Redes.
2.
Preparation of one or more, as the case may be, PDRs and Plans for each Red, 
once the Red in question has been legally established and organized to the 
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank.
3.
Execution of Subprojects under Approved Plans.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
May 15, 2002
185,000 
November 15, 2002
190,000 
May 15, 2003
195,000 
November 15, 2003
205,000 
May 15, 2004
210,000 
November 15, 2004
215,000 
May 15, 2005
220,000 
November 15, 2005
230,000 
May 15, 2006
235,000 
November 15, 2006
245,000 
May 15, 2007
250,000 
November 15, 2007
260,000 
May 15, 2008
265,000 
November 15, 2008
275,000 
May 15, 2009
280,000 
November 15, 2009
290,000 
May 15, 2010
300,000 
November 15, 2010
310,000 
May 15, 2011
320,000 
November 15, 2011
330,000 
May 15, 2012
340,000 
November 15, 2012
350,000 
May 15, 2013
360,000 
Page  13
November 15, 2013
370,000 
May 15, 2014
380,000 
November 15, 2014
390,000
TOTAL
    7,200,000
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable contracts for classroom library and didactic materials 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $380,000 and 
$620,000 or more each, respectively.
(b)
Preference for Domestically-manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Subject to 2 below, goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent or 
less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent and, 
subject to 3 below, works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  Before 
issuing any invitation to bid under this procedure, the Borrower shall prepare or 
cause to prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval, appropriate model bidding 
documents. Once approved, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be used said model, as 
approved for bidding under the Project. Any change or departure from the model so 
approved, shall require Bank’s prior approval.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $235,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Page  14
4.
Subprojects under Approved Plans
Although the limits stipulated in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 above shall determine 
the procurement procedures applicable to each Subproject, it is further agreed that 
the expenditures for goods and works procured under any such Subproject shall not be 
taken into account for the calculation of the aggregate limits stipulated in said 
paragraphs.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured under Part B of this Section the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that in addition to the aforesaid and irrespective of the 
estimated cost of the contract in question, such Guidelines shall also apply to the 
first contract for goods and the first contract for works both to be awarded in each 
calendar year following the respective procedures under Part C.1 above; and further 
provided, however, that the Bank may request that one or more additional contracts 
awarded under Part C.1 above be further subject to such procedures whenever the Bank 
would have raised objections in respect of the award of any such first or following 
contracts or requested changes in the procedures followed for awarding any of such 
contracts.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:  Procurement Provisions Governing National Competitive Bidding
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly, after the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
Page  15
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, 
namely that the short list of consultants for services for work supervision and 
financial auditing, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Part A.5 of the Project up to an aggregate amount of $350,000 
equivalent (excluding consultant services to be provided under Subprojects) may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for technical assistance and training, and other services of standard 
or routine nature as determined by the Procurement Manual, all under Parts A.1, C.1 
and C.2 of the Project and which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
for contract and up to an aggregate amount of $1,100,000 equivalent (excluding 
consultant services to be provided under Subprojects), may be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
selected under Part B of this Section and other contracts with consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  16
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, other than those selected 
under Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $300,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of $700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
Page  17
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
