Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11404-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JULY 12, 1993
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II (China and Mongolia)
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 28, 1993)
Currency Name - Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00        - Y5.74
SDR1.00        - US$1.38774
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square meter (m2) - 1.2 square yards
1 kilometer (km)    - 0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOPH           -    Provincial Bureau of Public Health
CMT            -    Community-Based Medical Training
CNTIC          -    China National Technical Import and Export Company
DOE            -    Department of Education of the MOPH
DOMA           -    Department of Medical Administration of the MOPH
ESC            -    Equipment Selection Committee
FLO            -    Foreign Loan Office of the MOPH
GIS            -    Government Insurance System
HMP            -    Health Manpower Planning
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
IFB            -    Invitation for Bid
IPA            -    Inter-provincial Activities
ITC            -    International Tendering Company
LCB            -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIS            -    Labor Insurance System
MCH            -    Maternal and Child Health
MOF            -    Ministry of Finance
MOPH           -    Ministry of Public Health
PCR            -    Project Completion Report
PIO            -    Project Implementation Office
PMARs          -    Governments of Provinces, Municipalities and Autonomous
Regions
RHWD           -    Rural Health Workers Development Project
RDA            -    Recommended Daily Allowance
SAA            -    State Audit Administration
SEdC           -    State Education Commission
SPC            -    State Planning Commission
TCM            -    Traditional Chinese Medicine
TFR            -    Total Fertility Rate
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
CHIN
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               People's Republic of China.
Beneficiaries:          Six Provinces (Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou, Henan, Hebei,
Shanxl) and the Ministry of Public Health
Credit Amount:          SDR 79.3 million (US$110 million equivalent)
Terms of Credits         Standard, with 35 years maturity
Proiect
Description:            The goal of the project is to improve the quality of
rural health manpower, thereby contributing to better
quality health services and an improved health status
of the rural poor in the six provinces. The project
has three province-specific components and one central
component. The Health Workers Plannina component will
strengthen the planning capability at the national,
provincial and local levels. This component will
define the tasks to be done to solve health problems
snd will identify the demand, the requirements and the
utilization for all health worker categories. The
Health Workers Training component will retrain large
numbers of minimally trained rural health workers,
train additional workers for underserved areas, and
strengthen the training capability at the provincial,
prefectural and county levels. Technical assistance
would be provided for developing and implementing
community oriented curricula, new teaching and
learning methods, teacher training in pedagogy,
integration of theory and practice, and evaluation of
changes and innovations. The Rural Health Services
Management component will improve the working
conditions of rural health workers, develop
alternative means for mobilizing financial resources
to support rural health care delivery, for organizing
and managing rural health services, and for
compensating and stimulating rural health workers to
emphasize preventive care; and provide support systems
for supervising these workers effectively. A small
Central Component will augment the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) for
coordinating and supporting project implementation
activities. It will strengthen MOPH's capability to
carry out its national mandate in planning and policy
formulation, provide technical assistance to the
project provinces, and evaluate project activities in
order to disseminate the experience gained to the rest
of the country.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Proiect Benefits:        At the end of project implementation, rural health
care delivery in the project provinces will have been
strengthened, end alternative means for mobilizing
local financial resources and for compensating rural
health workers will have been developed. Village
clinics in the project area will be staffed by a
trained village doctor and most villages will have two
village doctors, one of whom will be female. Health
personnel at the township level will be able to solve
a broader range of health problems. Health care
facilities at the township level will be repaired and
equipped with appropriate medical technology. County
and prefecture schools for training and retraining
health workers will have been rehabilitated and
expanded, and will have adopted a practice-oriented
curriculum reflecting community health needs. The
project's emphasis on the poor and its attention to
maternal and child health problems will have reduced
maternal mortality ratios in project areas. Project
outcomes would also be relevant to the prefectures of
the project provinces not included in the project and
would be disseminated to other provinces in the
country.
Proiect Risks:           The project would change the way rural health workers
are trained. Reforming established training patterns
involves important conceptual and attitudinal changes
on the part of provincial authorities, school
administrators, teachers and managers, which are
difficult to accomplish and difficult to measure.
Training new students offers different incentives to
schools than retraining existing personnel. Onlending
of credit proceeds by the Borrower to the beneficiary
provinces at higher interest rates and a shorter
maturity may selectively induce some provinces to
invest in counties that are more able to repay the
loan thereby potentially decreasing the intended full
participation of the poorest counties. Implementing
the study results on alternative ways of mobilizing
local funds and paying providers would need Government
support for adoption on a large scale. However, the
Government is keenly aware of the need for change in
rural health care delivery and strongly supports the
project's goals and objectives. Careful project
planning, supervision, and monitoring as well as
government assurances, would help alleviate these
risks.



- iii -
Eotimated C,ot:                      Local       Foreign       Total
-------- (US$ Million) -------
Manpower Planning                       2.1           1.7         3.8
Manpower Training                     106.3          17.5       123.8
Manpower Management                    19.1           4.9        24.0
Project Management                      2.2           1.1         3.3
Central Component                       0.3           0.6         0.9
Total Base Cost                       130.0         25.8        155.8
Physical Contingencils                  4.5           1.0         5.5
Price Contingencies                    21.7           3.0        24.7
Total Proiect Coetz                  156.2          29.8        186.0
Financina Plant
Provinces                               3.9           0.4         4.3
Prefecturea                            14.1           2.3        16.4
Counties                               49.1           6.1        55.2
Central Government                      0.1           0.0         0.1
IDA                                    89.0         21.0        110.0
Total                                 156.2          298186 O
Diabursementa:
IDA L             1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
----------------- (US$ Million)-
Annual               16.2     22.1   28.1    21.5   14.3       5.7      2.1
Cumulativc           16.2     38.3   66.4    87.9  102.2   107.9   110.0
Rate of Returns Not applicable
Mbo IBRD No. 24460
I/ Project-financed goods are exempted from duties and taxes.



I



- iv -
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AID PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.   SECTORAL  CONTE   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
A.   Population, Health and Nutrition Statue . . . . . . . . . .      1
B.   The Health Care System  . . . . . . . . a                        2
C.   Health Financing and Expenditures . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
D.   Rural Health Manpower   .......                                  6
B.   RHWD  Issues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
II.  GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND THE BANK'S ROLE IN ED  . . . . . . . . .    11
A.   Government Health Policies  o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
B.   Experience with Previous Bank Operations  . . . . . .  . .    12
C.   Bank's Role and Contribution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
11.THE                T    P     R    Q     I    I     Z    C     T   ...        ....      ....           14
A.   Origin of thnoft hProjct. ............                          14
B.   Project Objectives and Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
C.   Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINNINCING................                          28
A.   Costs                                                           28
B.   Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
V.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
A.    Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . .   . .      31
B.   Procurement   .  .  .  &  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
Co   Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
D.   Account and Audtlt   . . . . .   . .   . . . . . . . . .o .  . .  35
E.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . o . . . .     35
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited China
in October 1992. Appraisal team members included Mr. W. Do Geyndt (Task Manager
and Senior Public Health Specialist), Ms. Xiyan Zhao (Human Resourcos Economist),
Mr. A. Andonyadis (Architect) and consultants W. Hsiao, J. Johnston., P. Moore
and S. Sung. Consultants K. Cox, T. Hall and V. Wong participated in earlier
missions. Peer reviewers were Mmes. R. Martinez (Educator), M. Young (Public
Health Physician) and D. Vaillancourt (PHN Specialist). The Division Chief is
Mr. Zafer Ecevit. The Department Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki.



v-
P.   EnvironmentlAsetalspet.........36
G.   Impact on Wonen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . ...........               37
A.   Benefits  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . .   * . . . . .  37
D.   Risks   . 0. ........ ...........................  ... .        37
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
TABLES
1.1  Estimated Health Expenditure Share by Sectors . . . . . . .      5
1.2  Village Health Workers, 1970-86 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
1.3  Length of Training of a Sample of Village Doctors . . . . .      8
3.1  Basic Information on Project Provinco  . . . . . . .  . .    16
3.2  Project Area Statistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
4.1  Project Cost Su-unry by Expenditure .        . . . . . . .    28
4.2  Sumiary Account by Project Component  . . . . . . . . . . .    29
4.3  Project Financing Plan  . . .  . . .   . . .   . . .  . . . . . .    30
5.1   Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .    34
1.   Project Area Statistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
2.   Guiding Principles, Objectives and Activities
for Manpower Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
3.   Oversea Training Progra     am. o .. l..        . ... ..        47
4.   Manpower Training Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    51
5.   Guiding Principles, Objectives and Activities
for Manpower Training  . . .     . .  . ..  . ..  . .    55
6.    Civil Works Plan  ......  .. . .  .  . . . .  ...   .    59
7.   Equipment Selection Committ-e  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    61
8.   Technical Assistance Program  . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .    64
9.   Guiding Principles, Objectives and Activities
for Manpower Management  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .    66
10.  Study Design for Financing Rural Health Services  . . . . .    70
11.  Central Componont .e. ..... . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . .    77
12.  Interprovincial Activities  . . . . . . . .  . . . ..     . . .    85
13.  Project Related Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    88
14.  Project Cost Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    89
15.  Project Counterpart Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    92
16.  HOPH Administrative Procedures for Civil Works  . . . . . .    93
17.  Projoct Organization and Sample Implementation Office . . .    95
18.   Disbursment  Schedule . . .  . . . . . .*. .  .  .   . .  . ..  97
19.  Performance Plan        . . . . . .                   . ...... .   . ..    98
20.  Project Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   101
21.  Selected Documents in the Project File  . . . . . .   . . .    103
MAP IBRD No. 24460



- vi -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate      The percentage of persons aged 15 and over who can read
end write.
Crude Birth Rate         Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate         Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Dependency Ratio         Population 14 years or under and 65 years or older as a
percentage of the population aged 15 to 64 years.
Incidence Rate           Number of persona contracting a disease as a proportion
of the population at risk, per unit of time, usually
expressed per 1,000 or per 100,000 persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate   Annual deaths of infants less than 1 year old per 1,000
live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy          The number of years a new born child would live if
subject to the age-specific mortality rates prevailing
at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births in a given
year attributable to pregnancy, childbirth or puerperal
complications.
Rate of Natural          Difference between crude birth and crude death rates;
Increase                 usually expressed as a percentage
Total Fertility Rate    The average number of children a women will have if she
experiences a given set (i.e., those then prevailing
among women of those agas) of age specific fertility
rates throughout her life time.






CHI
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Status
1.1       Demographic Status.  According to the 1990 census, the population in
China is 1.13 billion, of which 74 percent are classified as rural. China's
demographic transition reached a stable stage during the 19809. Crude birth and
death rates remained at about 21 and 6 per thousand, respectively, throughout the
1980s, stabilizing the annual rate of natural increase at about 1.5 percent.
1.2       In spite of the remarkable results from family planning programs,
controlling population growth remains a major concern.  Additional population
increase is expected in the 1990. as a result of the large cohorts born in the
1960s that are now entering their reproductive years. The total fertility rate
(TFR) has been held to about 2.5 in the 1980s, but further sustained reduction
in fertility will be very difficult without substantial progress in socioeconomic
development and sustained success in the family planning programs.
1.3       The total dependency ratio will remain relatively stable at around 50
percent into the early 21st century. Nonetheles, the age structure will change
significantly. The proportion of the population over 65 will rise steadily, as
a result of fertility and mortality declines. The total "medically vulnerable"
population (those below age 5 and over age 50) will increase from 381 to 601 of
the working age population by the year 2025. These structural changes will raise
the demand for medical care.
1.4       Health Sttu.  Starting from a relatively low stage of economic
development, China has successfully improved the health status of its people
during the past four decades. Infant mortality in China was over 200 deaths per
thousand live births before 1949. The national average is now estimated at about
30 deaths  per  thousand  live births.   Child mortality has  been  falling
consistently since the mid-1970s.  Childhood immunization, family planning,
improved nutrition, better sanitation and housing, and accessible primary health
care all contributed to these remarkable mortality reductions. Life expectancy
of 70 years compares favorably with middle and high income developing countries
and with many developed countries.
1.5       The health transition (the change in disease pattern from primarily
communicable and infectious diseases to a preponderance of chronic and non-
communicable diseases) is clearly under way in China, partly because of the aging
of the population.  Heart disease, chronic obstructive lung disease, stroke,
cancer, injuries and suicide were the leading causes of mortality in the 1980s,
together accounting for 721 of all deaths. These chronic diseases also account
for the majority of hospital admissions and health care expenditure. However,
the health transition is uneven and varies by gender and residence. People in
remote and poor regions are more likely to be affected by infectious diseases
than urban people. The probability of rural men dying from infectious diseasse
is double that of urban men; rural women are four times as likely to die from



-2-
infectious diseases as urban women. Thus China has to face the challenge, of
dealing with the emerging prevalence of chronic noncommunicable diseases at the
same time as it continues to fight infectious and parasitic disaases. In the
proces. it must also reduce geographic and gender inequalities.
1.6       Nutrition  St-tus.    Improved  nutrition  has  been  an  important
contributor to the gains in life expectancy and the decline in mortality.
Average food consumption in China compares well with other developing countries.
The results from the Nationwide Nutrition Survey in 1982 indicated that the
average energy intake per capita vas 2085 calories (102S of the recommended daily
allowance or RDA) and 67 grams of protein (922 of RDA). Acute malnutrition has
been largely eliminated and the Chinese diet is on average not deficient.
However, malnutrition still exists, particularly in poorer rural areas. About
8-102 of the population have an energy intake lower than the RDA.
B. The Health Care System
1.7       Administrative Structure.  China's health care system consists of a
number of subsectors, among which the subsector administered by the Ministry of
Public Health  (MOPH)  is  the  largest.   Other  subsectors  are the  direct
responsibility of their corresponding government units and provide health
services to their constituencies (military, public security, industry,
education). These subsectors are not included in this brief description.
1.8       China's national health care system is an integral part of the
country's administrative structure. The State Council of the People's Republic
of China is the apex of the executive arm of government and controls the central
level Ministries and the 30 governments of provinces, municipalities and
autonomous regions (PMARs). Below the province are three levels of government,
namely, the prefecture/city government, the county government and the township
government. Township governments were previously the administrative offices of
the people's communes.
1.9       On average,  there are 8 prefectures/cities in each province or
autonomous region. The average population of a PHAR is 35 million people ranging
from 1.9 million (Tibet) to 108 million (Sichuan). There are 2,137 counties in
China or an average of 71 for each PMAR and 10 for each prefecture/city, and each
county has about 25 townships. The average population per county is 0.4 million
(ranging from 10,000 people to one million). A township averages 16,000 people
and has an average of 14 villages.  The villages are the primary units of
residence under the township government and range in size from 100 to over 3,000
people.
1.10      Before the administrative system reform in the early 1980s, the
village was called a production brigade and consisted of several production
teams. Each production team served as an agricultural business accounting unit.
After paying agricultural tax to the government, the production team retained
some of its revenue in a Public Welfare Fund for education and health care
expenses and for old age support.
1.11      The health care system closely parallels China's administrative
structure. Except for township governments, each level of government has a
department of public health vith a dual authority structure: for administrative
matters it is responsible to the government at its own level and for technical



-3-
matters it is responsible to the department of public health of the next higher
administrative level. Departments of public health at each level manage and
supervise hospitals, health centers and specialized health care institutions,
following national guidelines and norms promulgated by the central level MOPH.
1.12      The Rural Health Care Slstem Before 1979.  Before 1979, the primary
health care system in rural China was a "three-tier system" based on the
production team, the brigade, and the commune. Health care was provided by: (i)
part-time health workers at the production team level; (ii) the cooperative
health station at the brigade level, consisting of 1 to 5 "barefoot doctors"
(para 1.22) and serving on average 200-300 households; and (iii) the commune
clinic/hospital, staffed by middle level practitioners providing a broader range
of services based on Western and Chinese medicine. This health care system was
financed with contributions from the public welfare fund and from members of the
cooperative health care system.   The central government financed vaccines,
contraceptives and the training of all health personnel.
1.13      The policy of "Put Priority of Health Care in Rural Areas" of the mid-
1960s guided the rapid development in rural areas of the cooperative health care
system with "barefoot doctors" and brigade health stations. In the 1970s the
cooperative health care system covered 95 percent of all villages in China, and
helped provide primary health care to the rural population.
1.14      The Rural Health Care System After 1979.  The implementation of the
new economic responsibility system in rural areas, initiated in 1979, shifted the
community-based production system back to a family-based one. The privatization
of the production and distribution systems stimulated productivity and total
output. However, the changes in the economy also affected the health sector as
the system of collectives collapsed and the financial viability of the public
welfare fund was jeopardized. Other sources to pay for health care had to be
found.
1.15      The health care system experienced a dramatic change in the aftermath
of the economic reform.  Responsibility for the commune clinic/hospital (now
called the township health center/hospital) shifted from the county department
of public health to the township government. The township government is now
responsible for the administration and the financial support of the township
health centers/township hospitals. Another important change is the separation
of preventive services from treatment services at the township level.  The
township health centers used to provide both preventive services and curative
services.  After the reform, a large number of township health centers were
divided into curative township hospitals and preventive township health centers.
1.16      The most profound change in rural health service delivery system
occurred at the village level. Before 1979, the village health stations were run
under a cooperative health care system. The barefoot doctors were paid by work
points, which was a system of recording work contributions in the collective
economy. The villagers who joined the cooperative health care system received
free medical care in the brigade-level health station and also could be
reimbursed for a proportion of their medical expenses if they were referred to
and treated at a higher level.  The introduction of the new economic reform
weakened the financial viability of the cooperative system. The brigade is no
longer a production or distribution unit. Funds previously available for social
welfare, including old age support, schooling and medical care, have been sharply
reduced. The coverage by the cooperative health system declined substantially



-4-
in most areas; in some places, it completely collapsed. Additionally, incre-aea
in rural income and alternative job opportunities raiaed the opportunity coat for
the barefoot doctors and caused many to leave medical practice. The number of
barefoot doctors decreased from 1.76 million in 1977 to about 1.2 million in
1989.
1.17      Health services delivery at the village and township levels haa
undergone a process of commercialization as the financial risk has shifted from
the public payor to the private payor. Fee-for-service has become the dominant
method of paying for health services. MOPH data for 1988 indicate that only 6
percent of villages and 9 percent of the rural population are still covered under
cooperative fund arrangements. Over 80 percent of villages operate on a fee-for-
service payment basis.  The doctor in about 45 percent of the villages is a
private practitioner; 36 percent of the villages have a clinic run by the village
committee where the patients pay for services received. Only 10 percent of rural
doctors received part of their medical income directly from the villages. Six
percent of villages had no clinic and depended for health services on the
township health centers.
C. Health Financing and Expenditure
1.18      The Bank's 1990 sector report "China: Long-Term Issues and Options in
the Health Transition' (No. 7965-CHA) reviewed China's health financing and
health expenditures.  Important trends identified in the 1980. were: (i) per
capita health spending rose; (ii) the relative shares of public subsidies and of
health insurance payments declined; (iii) user fees increased in both absolute
and relative terms; (iv) total health expenditures grew rapidly, mainly as a
result of increases in hospital costs; and (v) drug consumption absorbed a higher
share of total health expenditures. The impact of these changes on the quality
of, and the access to, health services and on the health status of the population
is not as yet clear.
1.19      The Health Financine System. The main sources of health financing in
China are government budgets, health insurance and user fees. The largest source
is the health insurance system, covering about 12 percent of the total population
largely concentrated in urban area. There are three types of health insurance:
(i) the Government Insurance System (GIS) covers about 24 million civil servants
(2S of total population); (ii) the Labor Insurance System (LIS) covers all
workers of state-owned enterprises (about 75 million people, or 7 percent of the
total population) and in addition pays half of the medical expenses of their
dependents; and (iii) a variety of collectively-owned enterprises insure their
employees, covering a maximum of about 35 million workers. Recently developed
rural enterprises also provide certain health coverage to their employees. Table
1.1 presents total estimated health expenditures by source for the period 1970-
87. Noteworthy is the dramatic increase in the share of user fees and the
corresponding drop in the shares of government budget and health insurance.



-5-
Table 1.1
Estimated Health Exnenditure Share BY Source
1970       1980        1985 
Government Health Budget            28S         30%        27%         191
Health Insurance                    53%         501        42S         411
User Fees                           142         14%        26S         36%
Other sectors                        51          6%         5S          4%
Total                              100S        100%        100%       100%
Total Expenditure*                 4,670       12,105    23,011       30,322
* Estimated expenditure based on 1980 constant prices, in million RMB
Source: 'China: Long-Term Issues and Options in the Health Transition", (Report
No. 7965-CHA, 1990).
1.20      Rural-Urban Differentials.  Significant rural-urban differentials in
access to quality health care and in health status remain, notwithstanding the
fact that priority of rural health care has been a long-standing health policy
in China. The rural-urban gap has widened rather than narrowed during the past
ten years. At the township level the number of hospital beds decreased by 6.8Z
and the number of physicians by 10.8%.  In contrast, the number of beds and
physicians in county hospitals and above increased by 29.6% and 49.0%,
respectively. Also the share of public health expenditures on township hospitals
is declining, while the proportion of the government budget spent on higher level
hospitals is increasing. A dramatic difference between rural and urban areas is
evidenced by the annual per capita health expenditure in the late 1980. of
government employees (145 yuan) and of insured workers (151 yuan) while the
average for rural people was only 34 yuan.
1.21      Health Financing in Rural China. In general, no government insurance
is available in rural China. Health services are mainly provided on a fee-for-
service basis. According to a rural health services survey in 1985, the foe-for-
service payment mode covered 81 percent of rural residents, collective health
care sources accounted for 10 percent, labor insurance for 4 percent, public
welfare funds for 3 percent and others about 3 percent. Access to primary health
care has become an equity issue. Economically more advanced areas are able to
finance their local health services and more well-to-do farmers can "buy" better
medical services. Poor villages, on the other hand, cannot support their clinics
and poor villagers have difficulty paying their medical expenses. Results from
a rural health services survey (1985) indicated that, under the fee-for-service
system, about 20 percent of farmers could not obtain medical care when they were
sick and the same percentage of patients who needed inpatient care could not be
admitted to a hospital for financial reasons. With the continuous increase in
medical care cost, illness has become one of the leading causes of poverty in
rural areas.



-6-
D. Rural Health Maniower
1.22      The Transition from Barefoot Doctor to Village Doctor2. Rural health
manpower expanded rapidly in the late 1960. with the introduction of the
"barefoot doctor" program.  Barefoot doctors (a term first used in 1968 and
discontinued officially in 1985) were part-time health workers at the village
level responsible for: (i) the operation of the brigade health stations; (ii)
treatment of coon diseases and injuries; (iii) promotion of health campaigns
and health programs; (iv) disease surveillance and prevention, including
immunization and health education; (v) provision of maternal and child health
care (MCH) and family planning services; and (vi) cultivating, collecting and
processing medical herbs. The barefoot doctors were an important force in rural
primary health care. Their number increased to about 1.56 million in 1975 or
about 2.5 doctors per 1,000 rural residents. In the late 1970s, national health
policy emphasized improving the quality of health services and upgrading the
clinical skills of lower-level health personnel. Barefoot doctors could become
village doctors by passing a basic examination. Those who did not pass were
classified as village health aides. The total number of village doctors in 1988
was about 731,700 or only 60X of the number of barefoot doctors in 1980. Some
barefoot doctors changed occupation and some practiced medicine at the township
level. Overall, the number of rural health workers actually decreased during the
1980s (Table 1.2).
1.23      Recruitment and Trainint of Rural Health ManDowor.  The training of
assistant doctors and village doctors differs greatly from that of post-secondary
school level medical doctors even though all carry the title "doctor'. Assistant
doctors, MCH doctors, midwives, nurses and public health workers are junior high
school graduates (nine years of general education) with satisfactory scores on
provincial level examinations. Villagers to be trained as village doctors were
selected by the villages. Often the retiring village doctor would pass his or
her "business" on to a younger family member. Criteria for recruiting village
health workers were based on the community's judgment of the quality of the
person, which emphasized his/her performance, and potential as a responsible
member of the community as well as political status. Usually, if there is only
one village doctor, it is a male, but if there are two or more doctors, at least
one must be female in order to give more prominence to MCH services. The data
from a national survey on village doctors in 1990 suggest that almost 80 percent
of village doctors were male between the ages of 30 to 50. The majority of them
had only 6-9 years of general schooling. Younger village doctors tended to have
higher levels of education.
. See also the Bank's 1990 sector report "China: Long-term Issues and
Options in the Health Transition," Chapter 8: Health Manpower.



-7-
Table 1.2
Village Health Workers 1970-86
(in thousands)
1970      1975     1980      1986
No. of villages                            651        675      703      738
(formerly called 'brigades')
Villages with a health station
Number                                     499       571       484      648
Percent                                   76.6      84.6      68.8     87.8
Barefoot doctors                         1,218      1,559    1,463       NA
Village doctors                             NA         NA       NA      695
Village health aides                        NA         NA       NA      585
Brigade health aides                     3,561     3,282    2,357        NA
Rural midwives                              NA        615      635      508
NA: Not Applicable
Source: Ministry of Public Health
1.24      Professional training in secondary medical schools is subject to
provincial and national norms. It is highly structured and the performance of
schools is judged by the ranking of scores obtained by their graduates on
province-wide examinations. Pressure to perform well on these standardized tests
inhibits innovation and diverts teaching from more meaningful educational
objectives. Medical training for village doctors, on the other hand, is short,
informal and by and large unstructured.  The pre-service training that most
village doctors received is less than one year in duration. Initial training
usually takes place in the central township hospital or township health center
with a duration of 3 to 6 months.   In 1974, a formal one-year course was
introduced to train village doctors in an attempt to upgrade their clinical
skills, but it has not been widely adopted. Rural hoalth workers also receive
continuing education, of which there are four typess In-service Training at the
village health station through supervision from experienced health workers at the
station and/or periodic visits from township level professionals; Grou2 MeOtings
held every month at the township hospital to discuss special issues and needs;
Special Training Courses offered in the hospitals/health centers at township or
county levels, or at county health schools, for specific local health needs;
Retrainint Courses offered at the township or county levels mainly for skills
upgrading.  The length of the total training varies depending on individual
needs, and on available financial support to pay for tuition and to replace
income foregone during training. More than half of the village doctors have
received less than one year of technical training (i. . , combining proservice and
inservice training (Table 1.3)).



-8-
Table 1. 3
Length of Training of a Sample of Village Doctors
Duration of Training                 Number of            Percentage
(in months)                          Village Doctors
< 7                                     25,954              29.2
7  - 12                                 23,644              26.6
13 - 24                                 21,882              24.6
25+                                      17,446             19.6
Total                                   88,926              100
Sources Do Ceyndt, Zhao and Liu, 1992. "From Barefoot Doctor to Village Doctor
in Rural China", World Bank Technical Paper No. 187.
1.25      Training Institution. China train, health personnel at three levels.
At the highest level are medical universities offering a 5-6 year program plus
postgraduate training. At the middle level (still post-secondary) are 3-year
medical colleges training doctors in both western and Chinese medicine. At the
lower level are secondary medical schools training assistant doctors, traditional
Chinese medicine (TCH) doctors, midwives, MCH doctors, nurses and medical
technicians for the county and township levels, and county health schools mainly
training doctors and labor attendants for the village level. Enrolment in post-
secondary institutions has increased in recent years. At present, all graduates
from health training schools above the county level are employed by the
government except those who voluntarily leave for other jobs and sectors. This
pattern may change if economic reforms increase the demand by the private sector
for graduates with medical training. Most schools have all or part of their
students as boarders, which allows students from more distant areas to attend and
thus increases equity of access.
1.26      Most secondary medical schools offer three-year training programs and
the large majority of their students graduate as assistant doctors and nurses.
In recent years fewer midwives have been trained but more MCH doctors. Secondary
medical schools are under the authority of provincial and prefectural
governments. To be admitted, students must have completed three years of lower
secondary school and must pass an entrance examination.  Graduates must pass
provincial qualifying xaminations and their diplomas are recognized nationally.
Upon graduation they are assigned to a job by the prefectural public health
bureau. The bulk of the assistant doctors are assigned to township hospitals and
health centers; nurses, midwives and public health workers predominantly go to
county level facilities.  Training is free for most students and the school
receives an annual per capita allocation of Y1,200 to Y1,400 from the prefecture.
Knrollment is at times curtailed for budgetary reasons. Some paying students are
also accepted, providing an additional source of revenue to the school.
1.27      County health schools are under the supervision of the county health
bureau and train rural health workers for the villages. The length of training
varies widely among and within prefectures, ranging from one to three years.
Schools are self-financed through student fees but may receive a small annual
allocation from the county budget for capital expenses and teacher salaries.



-9-
Students are primary school graduates from diverse backgrounds and some have
health work experience. No entrance examination is required. Graduates are not
guaranteed a job but those previously employed in the health field often return
to their post in the village. Upon graduation students receive a certificate
recognized in the county only. Length of training is often a function of the
availability of funds, i.e., students' willingness to pay tuition for more than
one year of training and to forego income and the county government'a willingness
and capability to subsidize the training process.  The proposed project will
strengthen training at secondary medical schools and at county health schools.
1.28      Teachina Faculty. The academic background of the teaching faculty is
very diverse, with a few having been trained at a three-year medical college and
many at the secondary medical school level. Faculty at secondary edical schools
tend to have tertiary level training while faculty at county health schools are
more likely to be graduates from secondary medical schools.   Doctors from
prefectural and county hospitals are part-time faculty and teach a course in
their specialty. Teachers are not trained to teach as such and their teaching
methods are typically lecture-style. Most of the full-time faculty have limited
clinical practice and many have not worked clinically at the township or village
levels (this is more often the case for county school faculty than for secondary
medical school faculty). With a few exceptions, the faculty's knowledge and
personal experience of community needs and priorities are limited. Teaching and
practice are not integrated, as schools have limited practice settings. The most
frequently used practice settings are the county and prefectural/city hospitals
where the clinical problems to be solved are not an accurate reflection of the
prevalent pathology in townships and villages.
1.29      Retention of Rural Health ManDower. Assistant doctors at the township
level are part of the civil servant stream and are paid a salary. A light
workload and a generous assignment of staff at that level do not require full-
time presence and most assistant doctors havo other occupations, usually farming,
to supplement their low salaries. The commercialization of the sector during the
1980. and the reduction in the percentage of the payroll paid by the county
government (typically now only 60 percent) have encouraged township level
providers to generate more revenue from user fees for outpatient visits, daily
room charges and diagnostic tests, but mainly from the sale of drugs. Revenue
is used to offset the reduced salary subsidy and in some cases to pay an
incentive bonus. Thus, staff are devising Ways to increase their income to a
competitive level. Another major cause of staff dissatisfaction (and a frequent
reason for leaving the township and moving to county seats) is the lack of
suitable housing and the poor professional working conditions (insufficient
equipment, structurally deficient buildings).
1.30      Village doctors are not civil servants but are in effect private
entrepreneurs. Most of them work part-time on health care and about forty
percent of their income come from farming. Only 19 percent of village doctors
devote full time to their medical practice. Health manpower at this level has
been quite stable until recently. Under the collective economy, village doctors
(barefoot doctors at that time) were paid work points and their pay was equal to
or better than other villagers. After the economic reform, however, the village
doctor's pay is no longer guaranteed or competitive. The village doctors charge
a smll fee for a visit but their earnings mainly depend on profit made from
selling the medicines they proscribe. The results of a national survey reveal
that 77 percent of the village doctors' income from health care comes from
provision of curative services and only 13 percent from the provision of



- 10 -
preventive activities, with the remaining 10 percent coming from subsidies for
performing family planning services and immunizations.   The sanctioning of
private practice has increased the mobility of the health labor force, and
village doctors now also have alternative job opportunities and may leave the
health sector. Rural areas with higher income earning potential in non-health
sectors have special difficulty retaining their health workers.
1.31      Performance of Rural Health ManDower.   Health personnel at the
township and village levels generally do not have post-secondary medical
training.   The majority of township hospital doctors have graduated from
secondary medical schools. Village doctors have usually received short training
courses from county health schools and very few have completed a three year
training program. On other hand, many village doctors have extensive practical
work experience: more than 80 percent of village doctors have worked in the
health field for over ten years and 40 percent for more than 20 years (the older
ones started their careers as barefoot doctors).
1.32      Clinical  training  of  rural health workers  tends  to be unduly
theoretical, and not community-based or oriented towards problem-solving. More
than half of village doctors have less than one year of formal training (Table
1.3). Training curricula for rural health workers are simplified adaptations of
the curriculum taught in tertiary level medical schools and therefore retain the
strong emphasis on curative medicine. About two thirds of courses taught are
basic sciences, TCM courses take about one quarter and non-medical courses make
up the balance.  Deficiencies in clinical training are evident in clinical
practice. Rural doctors are responsible for providing basic health care to the
majority of the rural population, and curative services represent the bulk of
their work. In poorer and more remote areas up to 90 percent of work done by
village doctors is curative. Doctors have the authority to prescribe a variety
of drugs without the benefit of a proper clinical diagnosis. Some of the drugs
are potent and outright dangerous when applied improperly. In general there are
too many medically unnecessary intravenous infusions (e.g. amino acids, 10%
glucose), too many injections (e.g. vitamins, fortifiers, antibiotics) and
excessive and inappropriate use of antibiotics. Health authorities are correctly
concerned about antibiotic resistance in the rural population.  These poor
clinical practices are related to inadequate clinical training, absence of
clinical supervision and a perverse system of financial incentives.
E. Rural Health ManDower Development Issues
1.33      China is experiencing a rapid health transition concurrently with a
dramatic reform in its economic system. The existing health care system is not
well-equipped to cope with such rapid structural changes.   Problems   are
exacerbated in rural areas. The increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases
partly due to an aging population and partly to a shift in epidemiological risk
requires the introduction and dissemination of new technologies and practices in
health  services  delivery.   Moreover,  existing  health  service providers,
particularly at the township and village levels, lack the necessary clinical
skills to cope with such changes. New technology requires upgrading personnel
skills to improve quality and efficacy of health services. Key issues in the
present rural health care system in China are: (i) how to upgrade clinical skills
to improve quality of services; and (ii) how to improve the working conditions
of rural health workers and provide them with adequate payment for services
rendered, in order to stabilize health personnel and make them more productive.



- 11 -
1.34      Quality of Health Services.  As disposable income increases, people
are willing to pay more for health care and vill no longer accept low quality
services. The quality of health services provided by rural health workers has
become an important concern as the demand for medical care increases. Patients
are tending to bypass lower level health clinics and go directly to township or
county hospitals. The income effect on the demand for health services requires
a parallel improvement in quality of health services at the township and village
levels mainly by upgrading the clinical skills of rural health workers.
1.35      Quality of health care services is closely related to the quality of
training and supervision of health personnel and the quality of teacher training,
as well as the availability and appropriate pedagogic use of teaching methods and
materials. Providing rural health workers with the needed clinical skills and
supervising their performance are essential for improving the quality of rural
health care.
1.36      Remuneration System.  Appropriate financial incentives can help to
balance the geographic and skill distribution of the health labor force. Well-
trained doctors often do not want to stay in rural areas, partly because of poor
working  and  living  conditions,  but  also  because  of  low payment.    The
disintegration of the rural cooperative health system and the implementation of
cost recovery schemes have made payment of village doctors unstable.  Curative
services are the main source of income for township hospitals and health centers
and for village clinics.  Selling drugs is the most effective way for health
providers to generate revenue. The current system of health financing pushes the
rural health care providers to pursue income generating activities (i.e.,
curative services) rather than preventive activities which are economically less
attractive.  The excessive and often medically inappropriate prescription of
drugs is now being observed in the practice of village doctors and township
hospitals.
II_  GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND THE BANK'S ROLE IN RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT
A. Government Health Policies
2.1       The Eighth Five-year Health Plan for 1991-95 emphasizes reducing the
rural-urban gap in access to health care services. It argues that the provision
of quality rural health services is hampered by a lack of skilled health workers,
a shortage of health manpower in the poorest areas and inadequate medical
supplies, equipment and facilities.  The Eighth Five-year Health Plan sets
development strategies for the 1990s, among which, preventive care and rural
health care are the most important issues addressed. In order to reach the goal
of "Health for All by the Year 2000", the Government intends to increase
investment in the health sector and strengthen primary health care in rural
areas. Concrete goals are to increase the number of health workers per thousand
population from 0.6 to 0.8 and the number of hospital beds per thousand from 1.6
to 2. Priority in health manpower development is to train health professionals
for rural health care. Village doctors are the primary health care providers and
would receive various kinds of formal training during the 1990s.
2.2       The negative impact of the new economic responsibility system on the
provision and financing of rural health services (paras 1.14-1.17, 1.21) was not
originally anticipated. Government concern about the unintended consequences of
the demise of the cooperative health care system and the rise of a private



- 12 -
entrepreneurial fee-for-service system became evident during the mid-eighties.
Towards the end of the decade several national and regional meetings and symposia
examined and discussed the problems of organizing and financing rural health
services.  Research results from rural health evaluation studies vere also
disseminated.   As  a result of this information flow and reflecting  its
traditional comitment to the rural population, the Government has made rural
health a national priority. The Government's request for IDA assistance is an
expression of its concern. Central and provincial authorities have expressed
their strong support for the proposed project.
B. Past Exierience with Previous Bank Group Operstions
2.3       The Bank's work with health sector authorities began when China
resumed its membership in 1980.  The Bank's health sector dialogue with the
government has been pursued through health sector reports (1984, 1989) and
through four projects financed by IDA. The Rural Health and Medical Education
Project (Credit 1472-CiA) started in 1984 and was completed at the end of 19911
the Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project (Credit 1713/Loan 2723-CiA)
started in 1986 and is largely complete (except for a vaccine production
component, which will  run until  1995).   The  Integrated Regional Health
Development Project (Credit 2009-CHA) initiated activities in early 1990 and is
progressing satisfactorily.   A fourth project "Infectious and Endemic Disease
Control" (Credit 2317-CHA) was signed in 1991 and implementation has started
smoothly.
2.4       Credits 1472 and 1713 financed some rural manpower training, including
upgrading the plant and equipment of county health schools. Training was mainly
in-service and designed to improve management, introduce staff to the newly
purchased technology, and improve equipment maintenance.
2.5       The medical education component of Credit 1472 introduced a new
emphasis in the core medical universities on continuing education for rural
manpower in the areas of management, preventive medicine, and social medicine.
Public Health Bureaus were encouraged to set up community bases for study and
research.
2.6       Rural training centers were improved or constructed in all project
counties in five provinces under Credit 1713.   This approach was probably
appropriate at the time.  Present thinking, however, is to consider larger
catchment areas than a single county, with some division of responsibility for
different professional disciplines between county schools.  Under the  ame
credit, provincial training schools were also upgraded and provided with modern
equipment. The content of training courses was strengthened in primary care and
clinical areas, and in equipment maintenance. However, the project's objectives
did not include any fundamental review of health manpower planning or fundamental
changes in curriculum development. These were left for subsequent projects.
2.7       The proposed project would continue the health sector dialogue, while
building on many of the project activities and sector study findings of the last
ten years. A number of lessons have been learned from the implementation of the
projects financed by IDA thus far. They include the need to: (i) provide the
health sector better trained personnel; (ii) decentralize some operations such
as training down to the prefecture and county levels; (iii) strengthen the
capability at the central level to monitor and evaluate project performance; and



- 13 -
(iv) ensure sustainability by carefully planning recurrent and other financial
costs. These lessons are of particular relevance because the proposed project
would be implemented in six provinces that have not benefitted from previous Bank
Group support for health improvement. Precautions have therefore been taken in
the design of the proposed project by:  (i) using the prefecture and not the
county as the planning unit for county schools, with sharing of training services
among counties; (ii) stressing inservice training over proservice training; (iii)
incorporating a clearly defined central component to monitor and evaluate project
performance, and to extract lessons for use in future programs; (iv) ensuring
inclusion of technical assistance for key activities; and (v) carefully planning
tho financing of recurrent costs.
C. The Bank's Role and Contribution
2.8       The Bank shares the Government's concern with, and its emphasis on,
the organization, delivery and financing of rural health services, which serve
three quartors of China's population. The availability of qualified manpower in
adequate numbers is a necessary condition for the provision of affordable quality
care. Project proparation has already allowed IDA to contribute substantially
to identification and propagation of the main issues in rural health manpower
training end gains have already been realized. Provincial Bureaus of Public
Health and their respective preparation teams, as woll as the central level MOPH
Department of Education, now fully embrace the need to change the manpower
planning and training process. They are already promoting the conceptual model
of manpower planning based on community needs rather than on fixed ratios as in
the past, of training manpower using modern teaching methods integrating theory
and practice and distinguishing teaching from learning, and finally of
recruiting, retaining and managing the planned and trained manpower.   The
concepts of task analysis and job descriptions have entered the lexicon of the
Government's preparation teams, as well as competency-based assessment of
performance and clinical supervision.
2.9       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project builds on the
Bank's earlier operations in the health sector. It meshes woll with both IDA's
sector study findings and the Government's health sector development strategies.
The shortage of public funds for upgrading the quality of rural health personnel
became more apparent in the process of decentralization, particularly in poor
areas. Using its previous experienco with the health sector, the Bank is in a
position to holp the Government in its efforts to adjust its rural health system.
The project design stresses community-based health care and emphasizes disease
prevention in training programs partially basod on the Bank Group's experience
in other countries.  The project would develop a methodology that could be
replicated in other counties within the project provinces and in other provinces
in China.
2.10      As in previous health projects, there is a strong anti-poverty focus
of the project which gives it priority for IDA's attention.   Criteria for
selecting prefecturos in participating provinces target those with infant and
maternal mortality rates and illiteracy rates above provincial averages and those
below the provincial average on per capita income.  Project preparation has
provided the Bank Group and the Government an opportunity to address some of the
issues closely associated with poverty themes of the 1990 World Development
Report and the Bank's recent report on poverty in China (China: Strategies for
Reducing Poverty in the 1990's, Report No. 11245, October 1992).



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Orliin of the Proiect
3.1       The Rural Health Workers Development Project (RHWD) identification
mission (June 1990) examined the rationale and feasibility of IDA's involvement
in rural health manpower development and defined the context and scope of the
proposed project. Preparation missions were preceded and accompanied by UNDP-
financed Technical Assistance teams of foreign and local consultants in
November/December 1990 and in June 1991, and worked closely with MOPH and the
project provinces in developing detailed project proposals.  The project was
appraised in October 1992.
B. Proiect Obiectives and Areas
3.2       Proiect Obiectives.  The goal of the proposed project is to improve
the quality of rural health manpower, thereby contributing to better quality
health services and an improved health status of the rural population in the
project area. To achieve this goal the project vould: (i) strengthen manpower
planning capability in six project provinces and at the national level; (ii)
train and retrain better qualified medical teachers, rural health workers and
managers by reorienting the training process through curriculum reform,
introducing a wider variety of teaching and learning methods and more supervised
practicums, and emphasizing training in the practical skills needed in rural
settings; (iii) strengthen management and clinical supervision of health service
institutions in rural areas; (iv) improve inter-institutional coordination and
develop integrated provincial training networks with defined roles for each level
of training institutions; and (v) upgrade the physical conditions of training
institutions at the prefecture and county levels and of service delivery
institutions at the township and village levels.
Proiect Areas
3.3       Selection Criteria for Provinces. The MOPH and the Bank agreed on a
set of criteria for selecting project provinces. They included: (i) evidence of
provincial commitment to change policies, to organize interdepartmental project
leading groups, and to achieve project objectives; (ii) a per capita income level
below the national average; (iii) high prevalence of communicable and endemic
diseases, and a large number of counties in remote and medically underserved
areas; (iv) evidence of having planned or initiated educational policy reform;
and (v) ability and willingness to provide counterpart funds and willingness to
repay the loan. Based on the above criteria, Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou, Hebei,
Henan and Shanxi provinces were selected by the Chinese Government to participate
in the project.
3.4       Selection Critsria for Prefectures.   The criteria for selecting
prefectures within tho six provinces participating in the project were:
(a) Health policy statements by the Prefecture Executive or by the
prefectural assembly, expressing a commitment to solving the rural
health manpower problem;



- 15 -
(b) Evidence of actions taken by the prefectural governments to improve
rural health services, such as rotation of urban medical staff to
rural areas, or assignment of medical school graduates to rural areas;
(c) Existence of an organizational framework and a managerial process to
promote and improve rural health care services;
(d)  At least two thirds of the prefectures selected in each province
should be in the lowest quartile of the province's per capita GNP
range and one third could be in the next higher quartile;
(e) Selected prefectures must have a secondary medical school capable of
receiving assistance from higher level institutions and providing
support to the lower level county health schools.   In cases where
there is more than one prefectural level school the best one should
be  chosen.   Likewise,  not  all county health  schools within  a
prefecture should be selected but only the ones that have most
potential for developing into quality teaching institutions;
(f) The infant and maternal mortality rates should be higher than the
provincial average; and
(g) The percentage of rural health manpower without formal training should
be higher than the provincial average.
3.5       Based on the above criteria, each project province selected five to
seven prefectures to be included in the project. All counties in the selected
prefectures would be included in the project area and would benefit from the
project in one way or another, but only some of them would directly receive
hardware investment funds.  The project would invest in training schools in
prefectures and counties and in service institutions in townships and villages
that are clearly below acceptable provincial standards.
3.6       Basic Information on Proiect Provinces.  The six selected provinces
are relatively poor compared to the national average. Table 3.1 provides basic
demographic and socioeconomic information on the project provinces. There are
significant variations in socioeconomic development among the six provinces.
Guizhou stands out as the poorest with fewer natural resources and poorer health
conditions.
3.7       A total of 36 prefectures with 374 counties are included in the
project. There are 7,659 townships and 126,978 villages in the project counties
with 159 million people (about 55X of the total population of the six provinces).
Table 3.2 shows the share of the population and the number of administrative
units in each province that would be included in the project. Annex 1 provides
additional information by province on training facilities and health services
delivery units that are part of the project.



- 16 -
Table 3.1           llic Iufori tiou on Project Proyiuce.*
Anhui**   NJ Lan    guishon   80bel       Honan      Shanxi   CHINA
Main CharactoristLcs
Population (million)          57         29         32        59         86         29        1112
Total Area (1000 3(2)          137       121        176       188        166        156       9600
S Mountainous                 55         75         87        35         27         80        42
Population Density (/3(2)   403          233        181       313        493        177       116
S Rural                       86         61         83        83         66         78        s0
Socl economic Indicators
CUP per Capita (Yuan)          1,089     1,384      749       1,333      1,034      1,261     1,420
Health Up. as I of Cov.    4.0           3.7        4.6       4.3        4.1        3.9       2.5
lip.
Adult Llteracy Rate           65         84         72        75         72        82         84
(age 15+)
B  lh/D emraphLc
sadic ators
Crude Blrth Rate              25         23         23        20         22        22         21
Crude Death Rate              6          6          7         5          6         6          6
Total FortilLty Rate          2.5        2.5        2.3       2.2        2.9        2.2       2.5
LLfe Expectancy               71         71         65        71         69        69         70
Infant MortalLty Rate         42         35        86         37         62        60         30
(per 1,000 live blrth)
Maternal Mortality Rate        104       66         238       68         151        220       95
(per 100,000 live bLrth)
Incidence Rate of             389        257        1197      211        320        148       338
InfectLous Dlsoeoae
(per 100,000 Population)
* 1989 data
** 1990 datt
Sources: Provincial Project Proposals and China Health Statistical Digest, 1990



- 17 -
Table 3.2   Project Area Statistics
Population    Prefecture.    Counties     Townships     Village*
(million)
Anhui
Province      56.6             16           72           3182          30749
Project        28.1             5           41           1799          16589
Fujian
rovince       28.9             9           64            967          14814
Project        13.1            5            41            559           8109
Guizhou
Pravince      31.8              9           86           1664          25794
Project        22.1             6           65           1100          18910
Hlebei
Province      59              18           143           3640          50626
Project        32               7           91           2085          30530
Henan
Province      85.5             17          117           2127          47801
Project        45.8             7           62           1130          28735
Province      28.8             12          118           1910          32272
Project        18.2             6           74            986          24105
TOTAL
Province       290.6           81          600           13490        202056
Project        159.3           36          374           7659         126978
C.  Proiect Descrinptio
3.8       During project preparation, the six provinces have carefully planned
the activities to be carried out during project implementation. Objective* and
activities were defined, responsibilities for execution assigned, end timing and
resource allocation decided. Project management computer software (Time Line)
was used by all project provinces to document specific project plans in terms of
what is to be done, when, how, by whom, and what resources are needed.  It
describes the project in terms of activities, timing, resources and costs.
Proposed project activities are presented in Gantt Charts (produced by Time
Line).  Provinces will use the project management software to implement and
monitor  project  execution.    The  major  proposed  activities  and  resource
allocations are su-arized below for the three provincial components and the
central component.
HEALTH MANPOWER PLANNING (Base Cost US$3.8 million)
3.9       Obiectives and Activities. The design of the health manpower planning
component was guided by a set of agreed on principles, objectives and activities
(Annex 2). It would achieve six objectives, with each objective supported by
specific activities:
(a)  Develop a health planning capacity in the Drovinces by organizing and
staffing health manpower planning units at provincial, prefectural and
county levels and by establishing the necessary mechanisms for
coordinating planning and for common activities shared by all six
provincesl



- 18 -
(b)  Train the Dlannina staff by: (i) organizing inter-provincial training
workshops for provincial and selected sub-provincial planners; (ii)
holding training workshops in the provinces for provincial and sub-
provincial planners; and (iii) training selected planners locally and
sending some overseas for university-based academic degree programs
or agency-based study tours;
(c) ImDrove the glannint data base by standardizing and upgrading the
quality and relevance of the data collected;
(d)  Im=lement he-lth maniower Dlannint by: (i) conducting or updating a
'situation analysis" of health manpower and health system needs and
priorities; (ii) carrying out a small annual study or survey on a
priority topic; (iii) updating and improving the accuracy of
provincial demand estimates and supply projections; (iv) updating
manpower staffing and productivity standards; and (v) carrying out a
one year provincial manpower study and preparing a provincial manpower
plan;
(e) Establish a gualitative basis for manpower Dlanning by carrying out
a job analysis study as a basis for writing job descriptions and by
obtaining information and input from the local community; and
(f)  Monitor and evaluate the manpower plannint function by holding annual
meetings to review planning priorities, problems, methods and to
exchange results, and preparing an annual report on the health
manpower situation and accomplishments.
Inputs
3.10      Trainina Health Manpower Planners. About 725 health manpower planners
would be trained during the project period. Of these, about 8Z would receive
overseas training (Annex 3). Annual working conferences would be organized for
about 85 participants (Annx 4). The total number of health manpower planners
to be trained is equivalent to an effort of 2,636 person/months of local training
and 135 person/months of foreign training. Activities organized and implemented
on an inter-provincial basis include seminars and workshops to improve data bases
and projections, overseas study tours, and annual conferences for a total of 433
person/months.
3.11      Office EauiDment for the provincial and prefectural planning offices
will be provided and shared with the project implementation offices at those
levels.
3.12      Technical Assistance would be provided by local academic centers and
by foreign experts: about 390 person/months of local and 45 person/months of
overseas technical assistance for seminars and workshops.  Annex 8 provides
additional detail on resources required for successful implementation of this
component.
3.13      Research Studies supporting the health manpower planning component
are, inter jlia, a job analysis and workload study, improving the planning data
base and conducting a situation analysis, improving manpower staffing and
productivity standards, and annual surveys on priority topics to be selected.



- 19 -
HEALTH MANPOWER TRAINING (Base Cost US$123.8 million)
3.14      Obiectives and Activities. Five objectives are underpinned by a met
of agreed on guiding principles and by specific activities associated with each
objective as detailed below and explained in greater detail in Annex 5
(a)  Establish Provincial Trainina Networks  and Plans.   Within each
province, a provincial training network coordinating and linking
training institutions at the provincial, prefectural and county levels
and a provincial training plan for the project area would be
established as the cornerstone of subsequent decisions on investment
in prefecture and county level schools and on the allocation of
responsibilities and resources within the project's geographic area.
The training network and the training plan would: (i) assess the
current strengths and limits of existing prefectural and county
training institutions and document their resources and productivity;
(ii) establish clinical practice sites as a training resource to be
shared by several training institutions; (iii) articulate different
levels of training programs to obtain cost savings and increase
qualityl and (iv) establish a teacher development and evaluation
capability.
(b) Train Teachers and Administrators for Health Trainina Schools: (i) the
skills of teachers in instructional design and educational measurement
would be enhanced in short-term workshops; (ii) national and
international study tours would be organized for leaders of academic
training programs; (iii) each project province would establish a
capability to conduct research on improved teacher performance,
materials development, evaluation of teaching methods and student
performance, end inservice training for the existing teachers; and
(iv) teachers would receive training in new teaching methods
corresponding to the new curriculum.
(c)  Improve the Skills of the Existing Health Workers: (i) an analysis of
current duties and training needs of existing workers would be
conducted in coordination with the job and task analysis described
under the health manpower planning component; (ii) inservice training,
correspondence instruction, and supervised clinical practice sessions
would be designed, conducted and evaluated to target specific skills
to be improved, and training modules would address the most severe and
most prevalent performance problemsl and (iii) educational performance
standards would be established analogous to job performance standards
to assess readiness for clinical practice.
(d)  Revise Preservice Education and Train New Health Workers: (i) the
content of the work that the future health workers will be expected
to do and the levels of proficiency they will be expected to have
would be identified as a basis for selecting the knowledge, skills and
behaviors to be included in the preservice course of instruction; (ii)
existing curricula would be reviewed to determine needed revisions;
(iii) new materials and approaches to instruction which emphasize
expanded clinic-based training and learning-by-doing would be
developed; new health workers would be trained using the new
curricula, materials and instructional approaches.



- 20 -
(e) Uvmrsde Infr-structure of Trgininx Institutions: The project would
upgrade the physical infrastructure of secondary medical schools and
of county health  schools.   Detoriorated, undersized and unsafe
buildings for classrooms, laboratories, dining halls and student
dormitories  would  be  repaired,  or  replaced  if  needed.    Now
construction would meet the requirements of expanding enrollment, new
teaching and learning approaches, and curriculum reform. Provincial
training centers serving the project area would be repaired, secondary
medical schools and county health schools would be expanded or
rehabilitated,  and   "practice  bases"        with  classrooms   and
accommodations for faculty and students at the county and central
tovnship levels would be established adjacent to or integrated with
county and central township hospitals.
Inputs
3.15      Curriculum Development.  The project would support the revision of
primary health care education curricula. The current curriculum puts much more
mphasis on theory than on clinical practice. Curriculum reform would be based
on the job descriptions and the knowledge and skills required by the village and
township health staff.  The new curriculum would emphasize comunity health
problms, diagnosis and treatment of common diseases and preventive activities.
The task of revising and adapting the curriculum to the epidemiology of the
community would be done more efficiently and at less cost on an inter-provincial
basis. Teaching materials and texts will require revision, pilot testing and
evaluation.
3.16      Teaching Reform.  The project would also support changes in teaching
methods.  The aim is to increase teachers' teaching skills.  Lecture style
teaching would shift to increasing group discussion, laboratory instruction and
demonstration,  and practice-based  learning.   The current  examination and
certification system would be evaluated and improved.
3.17      Trainina Teachers and School Administrators.   The project would
enhance the quality of existing faculty through in-service training for teachers
of secondary medical schools and of county health schools. The project would
provide 44,613 person/months of inservice training for teachers of secondary
medical schools and county health schools.   Training methodology would be
experience-based and use mainly workshops as a vehicle. A more detailed training
plan is provided in Annex 4. About 90 school administrators of secondary medical
schools and of county health schools would receive ine-rvice training and also
participate in national or international study tours (15 per province) to improve
their management skills and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the
schools.
3.18      Training Health Workers is the central element  of the training
component.  It aims to improve the quality of rural health manpower through
inservice training and to increase the number of health workers through
increasing enrollment. Of these two training modes, in-service training would
receive more mphasis.
3.19      Inservice trainina will include short-term (loes  than three months),
intermediate (from three to six months) and long-term (more than seven months)
courses. The project would provide 1119570 person/months of short-term training,
535,480 person/months of intermediate training, and 1,464,797 person/months of



- 21 -
long-term inservice training. About 402 of township level health workero, 45Z
of village doctors and 152 of other village health workers (village aid*e, birth
attendants) would receive such training.
3.20      Preoservice trainina will include courseo of less than one year, one
to two years, or three years in duration. The project would provide about 73,190
person/months of short-term preservice training to village doctors and other
village health worker., about 279,178 person/months of one to two years training
and about 594,892 person/months of three year training. Preservice training for
township level health workers would be an additional 551,140 person/months (Anne
4).
3.21      Cateaories of Health Workers.  The following categories of township
level health workers for the township level would receive training under the
project: assistant doctors, nurses, assistant pharmacists, public health
assistant doctors, laboratory assistants, HCH assistant doctors and midwives, and
others (Anne 4). About 360,000 workers would receive inservice training and
about 60,000 would have preoservice training over the life of the project.
3.22      At the villait  lv2l, the project would train and retrain village
doctors, village health aides and birth attendants. Training plans for each
category of health personnel would be made based on existing staff and the
projection of future needs. The content of training would be designed according
to job descriptions and functional analyses of township and village health staff.
3.23      Civil Worko  The project will finance the expansion of six provincial
training centers/medical colleges, 36 secondary medical schools at the prefecture
level, and 146 county health schools.   The project will also finance the
construction of training bases at about 500 county and township health facilitile
to accommodate the trainees during their practical training. A total of about
428,757 square meters of building area will be constructed at the 189 training
institutions either as extension of existing buildings or additional buildings.
Also about 109,565 square meters of existing buildings will be rehabilitated.
Depending on the functional requirements of the individual institutions, priority
will be given to the construction of teaching facilities and of student
dormitories and related accommodations. The facilities to be constructed for the
practical training will consist mainly of teaching space and housing for students
and faculty. It is eotimated that about 84,161 square meters of building will
be constructed for that purpose.  Annex 6 presents details of civil works
requirements by province, by type of investment and by level of training
institution.
3.24       juipment.  The project would procure basic teaching and learning
equipment and educational materials for secondary medical schools, for county
health schools and for provincial training centers. The suggested equipment has
been provisionally categorized into five areas (office and audio-visual, teaching
aids, clinical, preclinical and special subjects).  The final equipment list
would be based on the provincial training plan, the new curriculum to be
developed, the type and number of manpower to be trained, and the instructional
methods to be adopted.  It would be prepared during the first year of the
project. That list will then be submitted for approval to an Equipment Selection
Committae (ESC). The KSC would therefore be organized at the and of the first
year of project implementation and its composition, terms of reference, equipment
selection criteria and selection procedures are set forth in Anne 7. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the composition and



- 22 -
terms of reference of the Equipment Selection Committee to be established by June
30, 1994, on the selection criteria and procedures to be used and applied.
3.25      Investment in equipment for training institutions would be about
US$13.2 million or 8.8% of total project investment cost.
3.26      Technical Assistance would be provided for the development of job
descriptions, the establishment of the training networks, curriculum development
and the provision of training. A total of 810 person/months of local and 80
person/months of foreign technical assistance has been scheduled for this purpose
(Anne 8).
MANAGING RURAL HEALTH SERVICES (Base Cost: US$24 million)
3.27      Oblectives and Activities: A set of guiding principles underlie the
four objectives, and the activities with their associated resource allocations
have been defined (Annex 9). A description of each objective and its supporting
activities follows.
(a)  Develoo He-lth Services Management and Supervision Systems: Efficient
and effective management of health services requires training
managerial and supervisory staff and supporting them with information,
tools and procedures which strongthen their knowledge of the work
content and the standards of performance. Work procedures would be
reevaluated and revised to support the work and the workers.
Appraisal and feedback systems would be developed that concentrate on
improving the process and showing staff how to do their work more
accurately and efficiently.
(b)  Provide Retular On-the-Job Trainina: The project would develop a
systm to monitor the standard of primary health care at the township
and village levels.   Regular auditing will be conducted to: (i)
reinforce messages instilled through formal teaching sessions in order
to ascertain that clinical skills are maintained; (ii) assess the
effect of training on the standard of practice; and (iii) improve the
quality of care through feedback from the auditing.  The auditing
system will also provide the framework for the supervision both of
trainees and of those receiving in-service training at the
clinic/hospital level.
Standard protocols for managing major clinical conditions, standard
approaches to patient care procedures (e.g., aseptic techniques), and
standards for the physical environment and performance of the health
care institutions will be developed for the different levels of care
under the guidance of the "clinical audit panall consisting of
teachers, clinicians and managers. "Rapid evaluation" manuals will be
used at formal or unannounced supervisory visits. Clinical audit or
peer review meetings will be held regularly at township hospitals with
involvement of staff from the village up to the county/prefecture
level to discuss problems with logistics, diagnosis and treatment
which may have led to "avoidable" morbidities and mortalities.
(c) Develop Financina. Compensation and Incentive Systems: The project
would design an experiment to study alternatives for: (i) mobilizing



- 23 -
financial resources to support rural health care delivery; (ii)
organizing and managing rural health services; and (iii) paying the
rural doctor. New approaches to organizing and financing rural health
services and alternative payment and incentive schemes for rural
health yorkers would be developed. Baseline data would be collected,
reviewing current sources of financing, expenditure patterns, ability
and willingness to pay, utilization rates, compensation and incentive
systems.   The study would assess the strengths and weaknesses of
current financing and payment methods. Based on this information,
different organizing, financing and payment models would be designed
and implemented to meet the needs of rural communities at different
levels of socioeconomic development.
The project would select a number of townships as experimental sites
and an equal number as control sites in four project provinces and
conduct the experiment for three years. (See Annex 10 for detailed
study design.) Using these experiments that will be tested
operationally, the provinces will develop affordable models of
organizing and financing rural health care and of paying rural health
workers. These models would be developed for townships with different
levels of socioeconomic development. The results, including policy
implications, would be discussed with the Bank. An action program
would be developed and presented to provincial and national policy
makers for possible adoption. The provinces would be assisted at the
national level by MOPH's Department of Medical Administration to carry
out the experiments. Technical assistance would be provided by local
academic institutions and by overseas consultants for training in
study design, data collection, data analysis, and design of
sustainable models for national adoption.
(d)  Uotrade Infrastructure of Health Services Facilities. The project
would rehabilitate selected existing central township hospitals and
township health centers. No new facilities would be constructed.
About 1,302 townships would benefit (17S of the total number of
townships in the project area and 101 of the total number of townships
in  the  project  provinces)   from  rehabilitation  of  existing
constructions. The project would also improve the equipment of 460
central township hospitals, 842 township health centers and 8,210
village health stations.
Inputs
3.28      Trainina Health Service Managers gnd Supervisors.  About 10,885
person/months of inservice training will be provided to health service managers
in basic management and personnel practices.  About 1,285  person/months of
training in methods of clinical supervision will be provided.
3.29      On-the-Job Trainina.  The project would finance the development of
protocols and manuals and the organization of workshops for teaching clinical
audits.   It would finance  transportation costs for subsequent  evaluation
activities but the township hospitals would be expectod to allocate funds to
cover the continuation of such practice beyond the period of the project.
3.30      Financint. ComDensation and Incentive Systems.  Staff inputs would
include a director of the evaluative studies, technical staff (statisticians,



- 24 -
economists), field survey supervisors at the prefectural, county and township
levels, computer programmers,  data input staff and clerks.  Other resources
required are training vorkshops, equipment, materials, supplies, travel and study
tours, and technical assistance.
3.31      Civil Wora.  The project will finance upgrading and repairing about
989 central township hospitals and township health centers or 17S of those
estimated as needing repair in the project provinces and 28Z of those needing
repair and located in the project area. About 80,790 square meters of building
area will be rehabilitated. It is estimated that an additional 4,743 township
facilities in the six provinces require repair and these would be upgraded under
a national program as part of the country's effort to reach the goals of "Health
for All by the Year 2000".
3.32      5juivmnt.  The project would procure medical equipment to improve
about 460 central township hospitals, about 840 township health centers and about
8,210 village health stations. Agreement has been reached on standard lists of
equipment for each of the first two types of institutions and these lists are in
the project file.   Each township facility would select equipment from the
standard list that is appropriate for its situation and functional needs. The
maximum amount for any single township health center would be about US$8,800 and
for a central township hospital about US$20,000. For village health stations,
equipment would be procured in standard packages costing about US$220 each.
About 8,210 village health stations would receive the standard package (71 of the
villagea in the project ar-a). The total investment in equipment for health
services facilities is US$14.1 million (9.41 of total project investment cost).
3.33      Technic-l Assistance would be provided to help redefine the system of
supervision and to assist in finalizing the manuals for supervision and clinical
auditing. A total of 317 person/months of local and 70 person/months of foreign
technical assistance is scheduled (Anne 8).
CENTRAL COMPONENT (Base Cost: US$0.9 million)
3.34      Obiectives and Activities.  The central component would augment the
institutional capacity of HOPH and especially of three MOPH departments: the
Department of Education (DOE), the Department of Medical Administration (DONA)
and the the Foreign Loan Office for coordinating and supporting project
implementation activities and disseminating project results.   HOPH, mainly
through the DOE, would strengthen its capability to carry out its national
mandate in manpower planning and manpower policy formulation. It would provide
technical assistance to the project provinces and evaluate the activities in
order to disseminate the experience gained to the rest of the country. MOPH,
through the DOHA, would support, monitor and assist in the execution of the
component dealing with organizing and financing rural health services and
compensation systems for rural health workers.    LO would coordinate all
logistical aspects of project implementation and assure liaison with the
Association on general matters
3.35      The Deiartment of Education in MOPH would: (i) strengthen its capacity
in health manpower planning (HMP) and in the use of community-based medical
education; (ii) develop a national capacity to conduct research and training in
HMP through support and utilization of a center of excellence; (iii) coordinate
and help with the organization of interprovincial activities in the aroas of job
description, curriculum design, development of educational materials, and



- 25 -
evaluation methods and target.;  (iv) determine national qualificationa in
community-based medical education; (v) coordinate the development of appropriate
teaching material. for rural health workers; and (vi) develop coordinating
mechanisms among the line departments in NOPH.
3.36      The DeDartment  of Medical Administration  in NOPH would receive
technical assistance to enable it to lead and support the following project
activities: (i) evaluate the current approaches in financing and organizing rural
health services and paying rural health workers; (ii) design the associated
experiments, including selecting experimental and control sites; (iii) implement
the experiments; (iv) monitor and evaluate the experimentation; undertake the
final assessment of the experiment; and (v) further develop models of financing
and payment and assist in the general adoption of these models (see also A
10).
3.37      The Foreign Loan Office in NOPH would monitor project implementation
in order to make sure that: (i) the agreed on targets are not changed; (ii) the
agreed  on  activities  are  efficiently  and  effectively  implemented  and
modifications are fully justified; (iii) the procurement of civil works and
equipment and of services takes place according to agreed procedures and on
schedule; and (iv) counterpart funds are timely available.
3 38      Inuts.  The Devartment of Education of MOPH would need the following
resources to carry out its supportive and policy formulation roles: overseas
training and study tours (US$194,077) equipment (US$33, 101), national workshops,
travel to project provinces, materials, supplies and publication expenses
(US$178,014), local technical assistance (US$11,240) and foreign technical
assistance (US$105,000). Total expenditures would be about US$521,430.
3.39      The Department of Medical Administration  in MOPH would require
equipment (US$10,450), local technical assistance (US$21,446), foreign technical
assistance (US$104,530), overseas training (US$24,007), research study (69,425)
and a total budget of about US$229,858 (Aneg 11).
3.40      The Foreian Loan Office of MOPH would need local training (US$17,056)
overseas training (US$9,826), local technical assistance (US$20,906) and
equipment (US$5,226).
INTERPROVINCIAL ACTIVITIES (Costs included above)
3.41      Obiectives and Activities. Nineteen project activities are organized
on an interprovincial basis for the purposes of: (i) cost sharing; (ii)
standardization; and (iii) efficiency and effectiveness.   Activities which
require large amounts of technical assistance, training and study tours would be
planned in such a manner that all provinces can share costs. Comion approaches
and materials would result in methods and techniques which can be easily
replicated across the project provinces and ultimately to the rest of the nation.
3.42      Responsibility for each of the 19 interprovincial activitios (IPA) has
been assigned and accepted by a single province or an entity such as a medical
university or MOPH. Each activity is shown in the overall plan as it is relatod
to the components of the project, l.e., manpower planning, training or



- 26 -
management.  Details of each interprovincial activity are contained in the
project implementation schedules for each province (Annex 12).  Two of the
nineteen activities deal with project-related training for project management
staff and with preparing the final project evaluation and the project completion
report.
3.43      Manvower Plannina IPAs. Four activities are planned. All activities
involve training either in short-term (3-5 weeks) in-country workshops or
overseas training of one month duration. All are aimed at improving the capacity
to undertake health manpower planning at the provincial level. Improving and
standardizing the data bases for planning are continuing collaborative activities
which will require coordination with MOPH.
3.44      Manpower Trainine IPAs. Nine activities are scheduled.  The first
activity involves a collaborative effort to develop job descriptions for health
workers at the township and village levels. This activity has already started
after project appraisal because it constrains many subsequent activities, e.g.
development of provincial training plans, preparation for civil works design.
Workshops    on   teaching   reform,    materials   development,    materials
evaluation/improvement, and training program evaluation would be spread across
the early phases of project implementation. The duration of each activity is
usually 3-5 weeks.
3.45      Rural Health Services Management IPAs. Four activities are scheduled.
Three management training activities involving 10,885 person/months are planned.
Overseas visits of one month duration are planned for 48 health services
managers. The annual meetings of provincial project staffs are included as an
activity within this component. These meetings would involve the leaders of each
component for the purpose of exchanging experiences, coordinating collaborative
efforts and planning follow up activity.
3.46      Schedulina of Interirovincial Activities.  Fourteen activities are
scheduled for the first year. For example, the IPA to develop Job Descriptions
will begin with a workshop organized with overseas experts.  The follow up
activity will be a two part interprovincial workshop scheduled for two weeks
each. Each workshop would involve 10 persons from each province and at least two
persons from MOPH.
3.47      A workshop would be held at Shanghai Medical College on health
manpower planning (8-10 participants from each province) for one month.
Workshops on managerial training and materials development would also be
scheduled for the first year.  The focus of these Program Manager training
workshops would be on procedures required by the Government and IDA during
project implementation, e.g., record keeping, financial accounting, managerial
accounting, reporting, inventory, procurement, etc. Hebei Province will host the
seminar/workshop on training reform. It will involve 55 persons for one month.
These IPAs will occur in the first half of the first year of project
implementation and the remaining activities would be scheduled subsequently.
InDuts
3.48      Approximately 1,250 persons from the six provinces and 25 from the
central government would participate in the interprovincial activities for a
total of 1,097 person/months of training and development activities. Thirty-six



- 27 -
person/months of foreign end 180 of local technical assistance would be assigned
and shared equally among the six provinces and the central component (Annex 12).
Some 6,810 person/month. of overseas training and study tours are planned. The
cost of these inputs (US$4 million) is included in the respective project
components.
PROJECT RELATED TRAINING
3.49      To ensure that appropriate management skills are developed in the
provincial Project Implementation Units, 63 person/months of training organized
by NOPH's Foreign Loan Office would be given during the first year of project
implementation. There would be a series of three two-week training sessions
attended by seven people from each province. At the completion of each session,
provincial representatives would conduct a two-week course for staff from project
offices at the prefectural level or below and for other relevant officials,
providing another 546 person/months of training. In addition, 84 months of long-
term overseas training would be provided (Annex 13).



CHINA                                                                      *           4 4*
Rurai Heslth Workels 0ewlopsnt                                                            tr       0
Su mry Accounts Cost Su awry*  .
(Millions)                                                                    I     ale  0
--- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -  --- - - - - - - - - - - -      %     foreign    ga *0
Local   Foreign       Total         Local  Foreigpn    Total       Exchange       Coa0N~
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. -.  -- - -- - - --  - --  - - --      -- - -  -- - --  - -
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Wwrks                                                                                                                                    '~0
1. Professioali Fees                  18.3         0.0       18.3           3.2       0.0       3.2           0.0         2.00
2. Constructions                     162.7        16.6      179.3          28.5       2.8      31.2           9.3        20.0                        '
Sub-Total                                181.0       16.6       197.6         31.6       2.8      36.6            8.6       22.1                         C
1. Trwanport/Install Fees              3.1         0.0        3.1           0.5       0.0       0.5           0.0         0.3                        co4
2. Equipment Cost                     1264.9      31.2      156.1          21.9       5.3      27.2           20.0       17.6               N 
Sub-Total                                127.9       31.2       159.1         22.5        5.3     27.7           19.6       17.8
C. Vehicles                                2.7       11.6        14.1          0.5        2.0       2.5          80.7         1.6
D. furniture                              21.1        0.0        21.1          3.7        0.0       3.7           0.0        2.4                     a.
E. Troining                                                                                                                                     6- .      ' ft
1. Training Foreign                    0.0        16.6       16.6           0.0       2.9       2.9         100.0         1.9               tr1        jAo r
2. Training Local                    367.5        60.3      387.8          60.8       6.8      67.6           10.6       63.3              0.           0 
5m-Total                                 367.5       56.9      604.5          60.8       9.7       70.5          14.1       45.2                                              34 0
F. studies I Research         ~27.9        12.5       60.3           6.9       2.1       7.0          30.9         6.5                  n,0  -                      0
F. StAde  Freign c                       0.s13o130.                                      .t3710.                             .
G. technical Assistance                                                               ~0rt                                                                    
2. TA Local                             5.8        0.7        6.6           1.0       0.1       1.1           10.6        0.7
Sib-Total                     5.8      ~~~~~~~~~22.0  27.7        1.0       3.8       4.8           79.2        3.1                      rt Z
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   713.9      150.5      86.4.         125.0      25.6    150.6            17.6       96.6CA                          r
It. RECURENT COSTS                                                                 ~O0 0 
A.  Mailntenane                                                                                                                                          til
1. Maintenance of Building             3.9         0.0        3.9           0.7       0.0       0.7           0.0         0.6               F. rt
2. Naintencanc  of Equipollnt          5.0         1.1        6.1           0.9       0.2       1.1           17.8        0.7               Nt
3. Maintenance of Vehicles              1.1        0.3        1.4           0.2       0.0       0.2           20.7        0.2                        le-
93a a
Sub-Total                                 10.0         1.4       11.6           1.7      0.2        2.0          12.1        1.3                "a,
B. Operating Cost                         18.9        0.2        19.1          3.3       0.0        3.3           1.1        2.1                     l.a.
--- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- --  - --- -- -- --- -- -- -- --  -- -- --- -- -- --
Total KOE*RIENT COSTS                     28.9         1.6      30.5           5.0       0.3        5.3           5.2        3.4                 0 0
Totat BASELINE COSTS                     742.8      152.1      896.9         130.1      25.9    155.9            16.6      100.0                  St   ~
Physical Contingencies                25.8         5.6       31.6           6.5       1.0       5.5           17.9        3.5               0  0S     
Price Contingencies                   128.0       13.7      141.8          21.7       3.0      26.7           12.3       15.8               a*             a
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     896.6      171.5    1068.1          156.2      29.9    186.1            16.1      119.61
... .. .. .  .. ... .. .. .. .... ... ...  ... ...  .....=u u m s a a a   -------------------------------------------------
vasScaled by 1000000.0         3/8/1995  8:09



- 29 -
Tabl- 4.2 Project Cost Summary by Component
RMB Y  Million           US$  Million             S    S
----------------        ----------------      Foroein  A*"
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreie  Total
Manpower Planning      11.8   10.0   21.8       2.1    1.7    3.8    45.8    2.4
Manpower Training    607.3  103.6  710.9    106.3   17.5  123.8    14.6   79.5
Manpower Management  109.2   29.0  138.2       19.1    4.9   24.0    21.0   15.4
Project Management    12.6    6.2   18.8        2.2    1.1    3.3    33.0    2.1
Central Component       1.9    3.4    5.3       0.3    0.6    0.9    64.5    0.6
Total Base Cost       742.8  152.2  895.0    130.0   25.8  155.8    16.6  100.0
Phy. Contingencies   25.8    5.6   31.4         4.5    1.0    5.5    17.9    3.5
Price. Contingencies 128.0   13.7  141.7       21.7    3.0   24.7    12.3   15.8
Total Project Cost   896.6  171.5 1068.1    156.2   29.8  186.0    16.1  119.3
4.2       Cost Estimates.  Costs are based on October 1992 prices for similar
procurement in recent contracts. Civil works unit costs, based on recent similar
contracts, range from Y 265 per ma to Y 600 per m  or about US$50 to US$110 per
in,, depending on the locality. Unit costs for rehabilitating existing buildings
range from Y 150 per m2 to Y 300 per m2, or US$30 to US$55 per nin, depending on
the extent of rehabilitation and locality. The cost of professional fees for the
surveys, designs and supervision of construction is estimated at ten percent of
the cost of construction. Equipment costs are based on the unit costs of similar
itme procured recently under competitivo bidding procedures. Local technical
assistance was estimated at Y 4,000 per person-month and foreign consultants at
US$10,000 per person-month including transportation cost, per diem and
accommodation expenditure. Training costs would range from Y 100 to Y 1,200 per
trainee-month for domestic training and US$2,045 to US$4,900 per trainee-month
overseas depending on the length of training. Recurrent costs were based on past
provincial budgetary estimates. Physical contingencies were estimated at 42 of
base cost, while price contingencies, 16S of baso cost, were based on an
inflation rate of 61 for local currency and 3.72 for foreign costs.
B. Financing
4.3       The proposed credit of US$110 million equivalent would finance about
59S of the total project cost, including about US$30 million in foreign exchange.
The local governments, mainly prefecture and county governments, would finance
about 411 of the total project cost. MOPE would finance a small part of the
central component cost (about US$0.1 million). The Financing Plan is shown in
Table 4.3.



- 30 -
Table 4.3 Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign          Total      Percent
Provinces                       3.9          0.4             4.3          2.3
Prefectures                    14.1          2.3            16.4          8.8
Counti-o                       49.1          6.1            55.2        29.6
Central Government              0.1          0.0             0.1          0.1
IDA                            89.0         21.0           110.0        59.2
Total                         156.2         29.8           186.0        100.0
4.4       The Government would on-lend the proposed credit in foreign and/or
local currency to the project province, repayable over 15 years, including a six
year grace period. Project provinces would have a choice whether to borrow from
the Government in SDR or in RMB. The interest rate for onl-nding would be a dual
ratet 1.5 percent for foreign currency and 3 percent for local currency. Project
province,  would  bear  the  foreign  exchange  risk where  applicable.    At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower will make the proceed.
of the Credit available to the project provinces on the above terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, and that the Borrower will ensure that
the provinces make the credit proceeds available to prefectural and/or county
government, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association which shall be
tho same terma and conditions as it receives or on more concessional terms if
warranted by the poverty level of the county or prefecture concerned. Assurances
were also obtained that the provinces will make credit proceeds available to
project townships and village, without obligation of repayment by such townships
and villagos.
4.5       Recurrent Expenditures. The recurrent costs for maintenance of civil
works, equipment and vehicles and operation and maintenance (O&M) are estimated
at about Y30.5 million spread over six years until projcot completion.
4.6       Counterpart  Funds.    The  proposed  IDA  Credit  would  finance
approximately 59 percent of total project cost. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the participating provinces would be able to acquire from their
respective annual budgets, at least the relevant annual amount as shown in Annex
15 as counterpart funds for the proposed project to carry out the project, and
that provinces would provide the counterpart funds for local governments in the
poorest areas in case the contributions of these less developed areas should
prove insufficient. A Project Agreement, with terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, would be signed between the Association and the six provinces
participating in the project.
4.7       Financing of Central Component. MOPH activities to be carried out by
its Department of Education and its Department of Medical Administration would
be financed by MOF (about US$751,288). The credit share of this amount would be
a grant by MOF to MOPH and the balance would be a supplemental budget allocation.



- 31 -
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.1       Organization and Management.  Project management at the central level
would be led by the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).  MOPH, through its Foreign
Loan Office (FLO), has well-established systems for managing development
projects.   The Department of Education (DOE) and the Department of Medical
Administration (DOMA) are two line departments of MOPH that would be involved in
project management at the central level as defined in Annex 11. The managerial
capacity of these two departments would be strengthened under the project to
coordinate substantive and technical project activities and to support
dissemination and replication of project  findings.    During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that these responsibilities would be assigned to a full-
time project manager in DOE and a full-time coordinator in DOMA both employed
until project completion. FLO would coordinate all logistical aspects of project
implementation and assure liaison with the Association on general matters, while
the participating provinces would communicate with the Association on detailed
matters. MOF would be responsible for managing the Special Account. The Civil
Works Design Experts Group of MOPH will review the conceptual design proposals
for major civil works prior to preparation of preliminary working drawings and
bid documents and will monitor the civil works program (Annex 16).
5.2       In each participating province, a leading group has been established
for supervising the management of the project. The leading group is headed by
a provincial Vice-Governor, with the deputy provincial Secretary-General and
director of the provincial Health Bureau as two deputy group leaders. The group
members include deputy chiefs of provincial Planning Commissions, provincial
Finance Bureaus, and provincial Personnel or Labor Offices and the chief of
provincial Education Commissions.  The functions of the leading group are to
coordinate between government bodies and to decide on major project matters.
5.3       The project provinces have each established a Project Implementation
Office (PIO) under the Bureau of Public Health at provincial level.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that each project province would maintain,
until project completion, its PIO with facilities, functions and staffing
satisfactory to the Association. The PIOs are in charge of routine management
of project implementation. The organization and staffing of the PIOs, as shown
in Annex 17, is satisfactory.  For civil works, the provincial Public Health
Bureau is responsible for selecting the design unit to conduct surveys, designs
and supervision of construction at the prefectural level and above.  The county
Public Health Office, under the guidance of the provincial Public Health Bureau,
is responsible for organizing the design and supervision of civil works at the
county level and below.
5.4       The Project Division in FLO and, more directly,  the planners and
educators in the PIOs of the six participating provinces would be responsible for
all project component activities including technical assistance, in conjunction
with staff at prefecture, county, township and village levels.
5.5       Status of Prolect PreRaration.  All existing training schools have
been  identified.    The majority of the secondary medical  schools  at the
prefectural level have been surveyed and conceptual designs of the facilities to
be constructed under the project have been prepared. Preliminary equipment lists
including specifications for Phase I procurement have been prepared, reviewed and



- 32 -
found to be satisfactory.  Phase I procurement for about US$10 million could
therefore be announced soon after Credit signing as the General Procurement
Notice would be announced after negotiations. Manpower planning, training and
supervision activities have also been listed in detail, including plans for the
use of consultants, local and foreign, and local and overseas fellowships. Early
start-up activities would be initiated under retroactive financing (see para
5.18). The proposed project is therefore ready to be implemented immediately
upon Development Credit Agreement signing.
B. Procureent
5.6       Items to be procured and financed partly or wholly with credit
proceeds include civil works, equipment, medical instruments, technical
assistance  and  training.    Civil  works  includes  new  construction  and
rehabilitation. Most of the construction will be simple in style and in rural
settings. Locations would be scattered in about 36 prefectures in six provinces.
All civil works procurement at county level and below would follow the local
procedures of selection of the lowest evaluated bidder among the invited two to
three local contractors and community organized groups. Force account procedures
may be used for the construction and repair of township level facilities for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$25,000 up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$1.5 million. The average cost of civil works at a county school is
about US$100,000 and of a practice base is about US$20,000. The total estimated
cost of civil works at these levels represents about 60% of the total project's
civil works cost. All civil works procurement at prefectural level and above
would follow local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Association.   IDA review prior to contract award and signing would be limited
only to those contracts (about 42 institutions) estimated to cost more than
US$300,000 each (about Y 1.6 million equivalent). The rest would be subject to
random sample review by supervision missions. Construction supervision will be
organized by the construction engineering units of the provincial Health Bureaus.
Standard bid documents prepared for China will be used for LCB.
5.7        nuiRnj t financed from the IDA credit proceeds for this project would
be largely medical and teaching items, mostly of small unit costs but in large
quantities. About 50 percent of teaching equipment and medical instruments,
including computers for project management offices would be acquired through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following IDA's Procurement Guidelines.
Contracts estimated to cost between US$25,000 and US$300,000 equivalent, in
aggregate not exceeding US$11.7 million, may be procured through LCB procedures
acceptable to the Association. Goods estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per
contract, and in aggregate not exceeding US$5.0 million, may be procured directly
through local shopping procedures under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible foreign or
local suppliers.   International suppliers may compete in these procedures.
Contracts for proprietary items and items required for the purposes of achieving
equipment standardization, subject to the approval of the association on a case-
by-case basis, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.  Under ICB, local
manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference in bid evaluation of
15 percent or the prevailing rate of customs duty, whichever is lower.
5.8       Teaching equipment would be procured in three phases spread over four
years. The first phase would cover about 25% of the teaching equipment to cover



- 33 -
items unlikely to be modified due to curriculum improvments and changes in
training strategy. The second phase (602) would be for item identifisd during
project preparation but reviewed during project implementation, whsn the training
needs have boen more clearly and more specifically defined. The final phase
(152) would include unforeseen items end some for specific training purposes and
would be purchased around the fourth or fifth year of project implementation.
Equipment for administrative purposes and equipment for health sorvices
facilities would be includod in Phase I procurement.
5.9       Equipment lists have been prepared by the six participating provinces
and reviewed by MOPB end the Association. Major items with high unit costs have
been reviewed end are satisfactory in terms of items proposed and skeleton
specifications. Items with small unit costs and sometimes in large quantities
are too numerous for detailed review. For Phase I procurement, both the item
proposed end the technical specifications have been reviewed end found to bo
satisfactory. These are therefore ready to be included in the bidding document
for the first Invitation For Bid (IPB) without prior IDA review. An Equipment
Selection Committee (ESC) would be established to review and approve equipment
proposed for procurement under the second end third phases. The proposed ESC is
satisfactory from the points of view of: (i) organization; (ii) members in the
review com ittoes; (iii) qualifications of the members; end (iv) authority for
deleting, substituting, modifying suggested specifications and returning to
originating unit for second thoughts end changes. During implementation, further
ESC end IDA review on items to be included would be needed for second end third
phase procurement.
5.10      Equipment would be grouped, to the extent possible, to form packages
in excess of US$300,000 for each contract. Proposals from six provinces would
be forwarded to FLO for bulk purchase by the International Tendering Company
(ITC) of China National Technical Import and Export Company (CUTIC) which has
experience with ICB procedures using the Association's Procurement Guidelines.
The provinces may each proceed with some procurement under LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA and use other procurement procedures including local shopping
(para 5.7). For contracts exceeding US$300,000 each, prior IDA review of bid
evaluation reports and no objection would be required before contracts could be
awarded and signed. For other contracts, random sample review of bid evaluation
reports and contracts would be carried out by supervision missions.
5.11      Consultant contracts estimated to cost l-es than US$100,000 equivalent
each may be procured - in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the Consultant Guidelines published by the
Bank in August 1981 - without prior review except for the terms of reference for
such contracts, the employment of individuals and single source selection of
firms.     Contracts of US$100,000 equivalent  or more will require prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts.



- 34 -
Table 5.1 Pro-z'ritranamta
(Vs$ million)
Project Ilrmants    lS1EMMLtSMA                  Total
Ica   LC Q    tk-f    Kmr
Civil Worka              18.1  22.2              40.3
(4.5)  (5.5)           (10.0)
Zqu2l _t           15.5  11.7   5.0              32.2
(12.6)  (8.8)  (3.8)           (25.2)
Vehicles                                 2.9      2.9
(0.0)    (0.0)
Wurilture                                4.3      4.3
(0.0)    (0.0)
Training                        36.5             56.5
(61.4)           (61.4)
Te-chical Assistance             5.4              5.4
(5.4)            (5.4)
Rsae-rch                         3.0              3.0
(a. 0)           (S. 0)
Maintenonce Cost                         2.5      2.5
(0.0)    (0.0)
Operational Cost                         3.9      3.9
(0.0)    (0.0)
TOTAL             15.5  29.3  127.1    13.6    136.0
(12.6)  (13.3)  (34.1)    (0.0)   (110.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses arm the respectiv am_mts financed by InA.
NIF: Not IDA financed
a. other m_tbods include direct purchaes and local shopping.
5. 12     Prior IDA review of technical specification vould also be required
before inviting bids for equipment contracts estimated to cost in excess of
US$300,000.
5.13      On  technical  assistane,  the  procurement  of  foreign  consultant
services would follov IDA Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Employment of
local consultants, to the extent possible, would be encouraged, as in many areas
there is such expertise in China. Training activities will be carried out under
annual contracts with the training institutions on the basis of training programs
acceptable to IDA.
C. Disbursements
5.14      The proposed credit of SDR 79.3 million (US$110 million equivalent)
would be disbursed over a period of six and a half years according to the
following percentages and against the folloving categories of expenditures:
(a)  20% of the cost of civil works;
(b)  100% of the CIF costs of imported equipment,
100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, and 75%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(c)  100% of the cost of consultant services and overseas training; and 70%
of local training.
5.15      Reimbursement against training and contracts for civil works and
equipment of less than US$300,000 each would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by
FLO in MOPH and the PIOs in the provinces and made available for random sample



- 35 -
review by IDA supervision misions.  All other disbursements would be made
against full documentation.
5.16      The  estimated  forecast  of  disbursements  closely  follows  the
disbursement profile for human resources projects in China (Annex 18).
5.17      Special Account.  A Special Account with an authorized allocation of
US$6.0 million, based on four months average expected expenditures, would be
established in a bank acceptable to IDA. The account would be under the control
of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Applications for replenishment of the Special
Account will be submitted monthly or whenever the Account has been drawn down by
about 50% of the initial deposit whichever occurs first.
5.18      Retroactive  Financing.   To ensure  the timely  implementation of
training and technical assistance needed for a rapid start-up of the project,
such as training of an initial core group of job analysts and manpower planners,
preparing training plans, etc., eligible expenditures made after October 31, 1992
and procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelines would be retroactively financed
by the Association. Total retroactive financing would not exceed US$10 million
equivalent.
D. Accounts and Audits
5.19      Audits.  Separate project accounts showing expenditures for project
activities would be maintained by each province. A total project account would
be maintained by the FLO in two books, one by project component for each province
and one by category of expenditures for the whole project. MOF would maintain
the Special Account and the SOEs in conjunction with FLO. Project accounts would
be audited by the State Audit Administration (SAA) and/or its local offices in
accordance with standard practices in China. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that within six months after the end of each Government fiscal
year, an annual audit report by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, including an audit of the Special Account and a separate opinion on
the SOEs, would be submitted to the Association.
E. Prolect Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20      Imolementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented
over a six-year period, plus six months for the completion of payments and full
withdrawal of credit proceeds. The project is expected to be completed by June
30, 1999 and closed on December 31, 1999. A project completion report would be
submitted by PLO to IDA within six months of the closing date.  PLO would
coordinate the preparation of semi-annual progress reports, with main
achievements and issues to be discussed with visiting IDA supervision missions.
5.21      Proiect Monitoring.  FLO would coordinate project implementation and
provide support to provincial PIOs. Each PIO has used the same computer software
(TIMELINE) to prepare project implementation plans, including Gantt Charts for
easy project monitoring. Progress reports can be generated easily at any time.
Provincial PIOs and local governments would be responsible for necessary
modification and revision of original plans after reviewing progress of
implementation and identifying needs and problems. A review meeting would be



- 36 -
held annually and attended by all project provinces. Any major changes in plans
are subject to review and approval by the Association and MOPH. IDA supervision
missions would be able to track progress towards achieving objectives using the
same computer project management software.
5.22      Project Evaluation.   Project provinces have agreed to a project
performance plan to evaluate achievement of project objectives.  Two sets of
target indicators have been developed: one set for process indicators and one set
for outcome indicators. Process indicators are the same for all six provinces
and would measure the development and use of plans and manuals, number of workers
trained, and civil works completed.  Process targets are scheduled at three
points in time and would ensure that milestones are reached and that achievements
are continued and institutionalized as appropriate.  Outcome indicators are
province-specific and would measure, inter alia, progress in staffing health care
facilities with qualified health workers, improving basic health services and
emergency care at the village and township levels, and reducing maternal
mortality rates. Values for outcome measures were estimated for the beginning
of the project and targets were set to be reached by project completion. The
performance plan is presented in Annex 19. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that each province would carry out the project's objectives in
accordance with the performance plan consisting of performance indicators
acceptable to the Association.
5.23      SuRervision  Schedule.    Project  supervision  would  be  a  joint
responsibility of IDA and MOPH (Annex 20). Milestone events would be:
(a)  Two supervision missions each fiscal year including visits to three
provinces and an annual meeting for all six provinces to take stock
of the progress in implementation and to determine the activities for
the coming year. A status report should be prepared for the use of
each visiting mission;
(b)  Financial Supervision: In May of each year, FLO and MOF will examine
the credit utilization and progress of payment, and help the provinces
prepare the statement of accounts for the preceding year;
(c)  Assurances were obtained that a mid-term review will be undertaken
with the cooperation of SPC and MOF no later than November 30, 1996;
(d)  Final evaluation will be conducted at the beginning of the year 2000
with inputs from the provincial PIOs, SPC and MOF and the
participating MOPH departments.
F. Environmental Aspects
5.24      The project would have no significant impact on the environment.  It
would, however, train rural health workers to promote health education, to
improve sanitation and to protect the health of the villagers from the
environmental effects and the occupational hazards of recently developed rural
industries.



- 37 -
G. ImDact on Women
5.25      Currently,  about  80 percent  of rural  doctors  are male.   This
percentage is expected to decrease as there is a trend towards admitting more
female students to prefectural and county level health training institutions.
This project will support this trend and accelerate it by requesting
participating project provinces in the Project Agreement to agree to achieving
two gender-specific project outcomes, viz, a substantial increase in the number
of villages with female doctors and also of villages with female doctors trained
and equipped to deliver family planning, MCH and obstetric care. The provinces
therefore will train more female rural doctors who will also be better suited to
handle the MCH and family planning aspects of the rural doctor's practice.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. enefits
6.1       At the end of project implementation, rural health care delivery in
the project provinces will have been strengthened, and alternative means for
mobilizing local financial resources and for compensating rural health workers
will have been developed.  All village clinics in the project area will be
staffed by a village doctor with a "village doctor certificate" and most villages
will have two village doctors, one of whom is female. Health personnel at the
township level will be better trained and able to solve a broader range of health
problems. Health care facilities at the township level will be repaired and
equipped with appropriate medical technology. County and prefecture schools for
training and retraining health workers will have adopted a practice-oriented
curriculum reflecting community health needs, and their faculties will be able
to use new teaching methods. These schools will have been rehabilitated and
expanded, and more relevant teaching equipment will have been installed and used.
The project's emphasis on the poor and its attention to maternal and child health
problems will have reduced maternal mortality ratios in project areas. Project
outcomes would also be relevant to the prefectures of the project provinces not
included in the project and would be disseminated to other provinces in the
country.
B. Risks
6.2       The project would change the way rural health workers are trained.
Reforming established training patterns involves important conceptual and
attitudinal changes on the part of provincial authorities, school administrators,
teachers and managers, which are difficult to accomplish and difficult to
measure. Not all teachers will be eager to change the way they teach in order
to improve learning achievements.   Training new students offers different
incentives to schools than retraining existing personnel. Onlending of credit
proceeds by the Borrower to the beneficiary provinces at higher interest rates
and a shorter maturity may selectively induce some provinces to invest in
counties that are more able to repay the loan thereby potentially decreasing the
intended full participation of the poorest counties.Implementing the study
results on alternative ways of mobilizing local funds and paying providers would
need government support for adoption on a large scale. However, the Government
is keenly aware of the need for change in rural health care delivery and strongly
supports  the project's  goals  and objectives.   Careful project planning,
supervision, and monitoring as well as government assurances would alleviate
these risks.



- 38 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       At negotiations assurances were obtained that the Borrower will:
(a) establish an Equipment Selection Committee by June 30, 1994
and agree on the composition and terms of reference of the Committee
and on equipment selection criteria and procedures to be used and
applied (para 3.24);
(b) make the proceeds of the Credit available to the project provinces at
1.5 percent for foreign currency expenditures and 3 percent for local
currency expenditures, repayable over 15 years, including a six year
grace period, and that the provinces make the credit proceeds
available to prefectural and/or county governments on terms and
conditions which should be the same as it receives or on more
concessional terms if warranted by the poverty level of the county or
prefecture concerned (para 4.4);
(c) continue to employ until the completion of the project,
a full-time project manager in MOPH's Department of Education and a
full-time project coordinator in MOPH's Department of Medical
Administration for the purposes of coordinating project activities and
supporting dissemination and replication of project findings (para
5.1); and
(d)  ensure that within six months after the end of each Government fiscal
year, an annual audit report by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, including an audit of the Special Account and a separate
opinion on the SOEs, would be submitted to the Association (para
5.19).
7.2       At negotiations, assurances were also obtained that the provinces
will:
(a) make the credit proceeds available to prefectural and/or county
governments on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and
make the credit proceeds available to project townships and villages
without obligation of repayment by such townships and villages (para
4.4);
(b) provide amounts satisfactory to the Association from provincial annual
budgets as counterpart funds sufficient to carry out the project,
provide the counterpart funds for local governments in the poorest
areas in case the contributions of these less developed areas should
prove insufficient, and sign a Project Agreement with the Association
with terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (para 4.6);
(c) establish Project Implementation Offices and maintain them, until
project  completion,  with  facilities,   functions  and  staffing
satisfactory to the Association (para 5.3);



- 39 -
(d) audit project expenditures and, within six months after the end of
each Government fiscal year, provide the Association with a report of
such audit (para 5.19);
(e) carry out the project's objectives in accordance with a performance
plan with performance indicators acceptable to the Association (para
5.22); and
(f) participate in a mid-term review of the progress of project
implementation by no later than November 30, 1996 (para 5.23).
7.3       Approval by the State Council of the Development Credit Agreement
would be a condition for credit effectiveness.
7.4       With the above assurances,  the Rural Health Workers Development
Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 79.3 million (US$110 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, to the People's
Republic of China.



RURL HEALTH          B  IEV TDPSET PROJECT
NlUBEM                        1U                 FLUHAN              aUZHOU              HEBB                HENAN               SHAM                TOTAL
PwOV.   PRD1    PFVN.    PFO            PfRN.    PFRDJ    PFWV.    PRAW.    PF P. PRMI.   PIO.  . PKI..    PRlV.   PAl.
POPMUJON)uLI                             9907      25         M133      311.4    22.15        59        32     864       45.77     25.76     15.16    250.64    15926
PFEFECTLUES                       16         5         9         5         9         6        16         7        17         7        12         6        61        36
COUIES                            72        41        64        41        as        65       143        91       117        62       Its        74       60        374
TO    WJSHIPS                   3182      1799       957       559      1664      1100      360       2065      2127      1130      1910       966    13490       7650
VILAGES                        30749     16509    14614       8109     2574      160       50626     30530    4601       24735     32272    24106   202068   122978
SECONDARI  HEALTH S9HOO           16         5        12         5        15         7        11         7        10         7        14         6        86        37
COUNTY HEAiLTH SCHOOLS            66        19        36        22        30        23       124        33       120        28        65        21       445       146
COLxfNYTPAW4 N BAE               5B         30        35         4                  47       241       182        73        35                  60       917       366
TOV*MiHWPTRAINIM BSE             566       200                  39                  91       143        91                  42                 100       711       563'
CENTRAL TOVWN8   HOSPITI         866        a6       197        aS       330        as       665        40       535       104       523       100      2036       4601
TOWNSHIPHOSPITAL                2106       104       732       125      1334       135      2135       182      1476        96      1671       200      9456       842
VILLAGE HEALTH STATION         20835      1116    22852       1232      10576     220      47733         0    45009       3600     26560         0    184515      6210
0



- 421 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
Rural Health Workers Develonment Prolect
Health ManRower Plannina Comuonentt
Guiding Princiylos. Oblectives and Activities
1.    Guiding Principles
Health MIn oHer and Health Plannin.   Health manpower planning is an
integral part of health planning.  Both must be strengthened together.
They should be closely linked to the unit responsible for health
statistics.
High  prioritv  for  the  Planning  unit  levels.    The  devolution  of
responsibility under decentralization requires a strong planning
capability at the provincial Bureau of Public Health (BOPE).  The BOPH
will need to provide technical guidance to planners at prefectural and
county levels. Strong linkages should be established among these planning
units and vith other governmental units concerned with planning, finance
and policy.
Collaboration with other provinces.   In order to reduce costs  and
accelerate work, joint offorts in planning among provincial planning units
should be encouraged. This will enable useful products early and will be
an effective means to pool the planning ezpertise and to exchange
technology.
The i=mortance of training. Few people have training in health manpower
planning.  Resources for training, staff development, and information
exchange will be needod.
Emhasize treater numbers of planners at lesser levels of training. For a
given amount of resources a province can either train a few planners to a
high level of espertise, or more planners to a lesser level. The latter
strategy coupled with a plan to increase the level of training is
preferred.
Short-term vorkshon training will be *ohasized. The preferred training
strategy for rapid development of the planning staff is based upon short
(3-6 veeks) modular workshops rather than long academic programs. The
workshops should emphasize the practical application of planning
technology and should be followed by a period of application of the nev
knowledge to produce useful products in the province.  Performance in
these training vorkshops and on the job can becom the basis for selection
for university training and overseas study.
Trainint targets ire for double the numb-r reauired. Approximately twice
as many planners should be trained as will be working in health planning
at any one time. This higher training target is set to anticipate some
expected loss of trained planners to other sectors, i.e. education,



- L2 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
planning commission, finance, and the lose of planners to managerial roles
in the BOPH. Planning skills and technology are part of the fundamental
preparation of managers and executives.
2.    Planning Objectives and Activities
OBJECTIVE #1: DEMVLOP A DEALT! PLANNING CAPACITY IN THE PROVINCE
Activity:  Oraanize and staff health and heolth manoover Dlannina units at
the Drovincial and subDrovincial levels and establish necessary mechanisms
for coordination of plUnnina and for interorovincial ioint efforts.
Comments: The number of planners vill vary from province to province. A
reasonable assumption about size would be from 4-6 trained planners at the
BOP! provincial level and 40-60 persons with some planning training at the
prefectural or county levels.  Provincial planners are assumed to work
full time in planning while some sub provincial planners may combine
planning  with  other  administrative,  statistical  or  data  support
activities. Additional support (clerical and data) will be needed for the
planning activities.  Rapid start up may be achieved through the loan of
experienced personnel from other settings, e.g. planning bureaus,
educational institutions, to provide leadership and help with the training
of planning unit personnel.
Planner qualifications will need to be carefully considered. Skills that
are especially useful are public health planning end management,
statistics, epidemiology and economics. Medical end other clinical skills
are useful, but not sufficient by themsolves.   For the higher level
planners at least three to five years experience is desirable.   The
provincial level planning director should be selected on the basis of
demonstrated leadership ability. Planning unit effectiveness will depend
upon the technical *nd the interpersonal skills of the leader.
The purpose of having planners is to provide senior health and educational
executives with better information and guidance on which to base their
decisions.   Every effort  should be made to find persons with good
aptitudes and potential, to provide thm with some basic training and work
experience in planning and to provido them with opportunities for
advancement through career ladders.
OBJECTIVE t2: TRAIN ThE PLANING STAFF
Activity:    Plan  and  hold  inter-nrovincial  trainihn  workshols  for
orovincial and selected sub-provincial nlanners,
Coermnt: All provinces may join together to sponsor end contract for the
development of short-term, intensive workshops designed for the leadership
of the planning units being established. Curriculum and study materials
developed for these workshops may be useful in the subsequent inservice
training for other planners in the province. Careful evaluation of these



- 4-3 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
training sessions will inform the subsequent sessions about content and
methods which are most useful.
It will be desirable to develop a national resource, probably university-
based, for the development of top level planners in the health field.
This unit can have the additional responsibilities of conducting research
on planning methods and for the dissemination of new planning technologies
to the field of practice.
Activity: Hold training workshops in the orovince for Drovincial and sub-
Prolincial planners.
Coment:  Those workshops serve   dual purposes.   First, they are an
effective and necessary means to develop the planning skills and
techniques of the lower level planning staff.  Second, they provide a
venue for the coordination of planning activity within a province.
Attention to building a team of planners should be equal to the objective
of skills development. Local area statistics and studies will become the
foundation for provincial planning. Attention to the quality of the data
resources can be reinforced during these sessions.
Activitys  Send selected planners for a university-based academic dearee
oroaram or agency-based studt tour.
Coment:  An academic degree at the masters level or a 1-3 month study
tour to various locations that provide good examples of planning can be a
useful activity to augment leadership development among the top level
planning staff. Overseas training is very expensive, can be provided to
only a very few persons, and unless carefully planned, may not be
relevant. The possibility of sending planners to Chinese universities and
research institutes should be considered. Strengthening the acadmic base
for planning research and training is highly desirable.
Provinces may arrange for international training or assign the
responsibility to an inter-provincial conittec which would identify the
overseas academic progrms and study tours that best fit the needs of tho
planning units. Study tours involving persons from several provinces vill
strengthen the planning skills and the inter-provincial collaboration
activity.
OBJICTIVE #3t  IEPIOVE TEt PLAMING DATA IASE
Activity: Imurove and standardize the alanAina data base.
Coent: This activity will be very important to all the provinces and to
all of China. It would be preferable to make this an inter-provincial
collaborative activity to assure standardization betwoen planning units.
Leadership and resources from HOPS can be very useful to this activity.



- A4 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
The major emphases of this effort should be toward improving the quality
and relevance (to decision making) of the data collected, and not on
increasing the quantity collected.
Efforts should be made to improve data standardization ao that numbers in
each province mean the same thing. Annual meetings to address merging
issues should be held to assure the continued high visibility and
attention this activity deserves.
OBJECTIVZ #4: IHPLZHENT WALT! MANPOWER PLANNING
Activity: Conduct or undate a "situation analXsis" of health nimuower and
h-alth system needs and priorities,
Coment:  It is important to establish a good baseline analysis of the
current status of the health system and health manpower.  The analysis
should identify the main problems, issues and priorities.   It should
present policy concerns and options to solve problems and it should
develop a vork plan to carry out special studies on selected high priority
topics in the near term.  This activity is useful in the training of
beginning planners. This work would familiarize them with the problcms of
the health sector and give them practical experience in one of the tasks
of planning.
Activity:  Carry out an annual small study or surVey on  a wouity topic.
Comment: This activity vill provide specific, timely and useful products
to the authorities to help them mike decisions, while at the same time
provide practical planning experience to the new planning staffs.  The
topics should be well defined and should not require more that 10-12
person/months of effort to complete. Complexity of topics can increase as
the planners become more experienced.   Inter-provincial collaborative
studies may be an important variation if differences are thought to exist.
Otherwise, the findings from one provincial special study may be useful
to the other provinces.   Some interprovincial coordination of topic
selection may be useful to avoid duplication of effort.
Activity:    Ud ate  *nd    imrove  the  aulitv  of  oroXlacial  supolv
uroiction
Comment: This activity would use the emerging planning capability to be
applied to an important and timely problm. Som  supply projections exist
in most provinces. The quality and currency is not known. By the end of
this activity the supply data base should be much improved, thus reducing
to a mLnmum the time necessary to update the projections in the future.
In many ways supply data and projections are the easiest of the planning
tasks. Success in this endeavor will build confidenco within the planning
staff and earn the respect of the decision makers.
Activity:  Undto mnuower staffina and nroductivitv standrds.



- 45 -
Annex2
Page 5 of 6
Comment:    This  study  is  a major undertaking.    Job  analysis  and
performance/productivity standards from the activities in Objective #5
(Qualitative Data) will provide much needed information for revision of
standards. The cost of this activity will be considerably reduced and the
usefulness to China increased if the standards are developed through a
coordinated, interprovincial effort. One province could revise township
level standards, several others could work together on different
categories of county level health facilities and others could work on
provincial level facility and staffing standards.  All draft standards
could then be reviewed by all provinces and revisions adopted.
Activity:  Carry out a one Tear urovincial meuower studv and arepare a
nrovincial usDovwer plan,
Comnent: This study resulting in a provincial health manpower plan brings
together all the major findings of the previous efforts on such topics as
supply, requirements, distribution, productivity, and costs.
The HOPE could find it useful to support and participate actively in this
one year study with two objectives in mind. First the HOPE plannors will
gain experience in how to implement such a study--experience that could be
shared vith other provinces. Second, they could work concurrently to
develop similar projections for the entire country.   By using real
provincial data for many of the projection model inputs, valuable guidance
could be obtained for national decision making.
OJEICTIVE #5: ESTABLISh A QUALITATIVE BASIS FOR PLANNING
Activitv: Carrv out a iob analysis study.
Comnent:  This is definitely a good ex=ple of an activity that can and
should be done with inter-provincial collaboration. Job analysis results
in a good job description that vill help planners and policy makers decide
how many persons should have the required competencies. Likewise, it is
useful to educators in designing specific proservice and inservice
training programs, and to managers as they supervise and evaluate their
staff.   Having data about job content helps planners decide how to
redistribute work smong various staff and how to redistribute staff among
different locations. The responsibility for defining the jobs (content
and competencies) lies principally with the BOPE, but the study should
include educators as-part of the study teas to assure that the educators
will use the final determination of duties and performance competencies in
their teaching.
Activity: Obtain infoTmation on the oninigns and attitudos of a broad
arrga of exuerts. officials and citiznsg.
Coinent:  One of the precepts of PRIOARY HEALTH CARE and one of the
fundamental tenets of good planning is to involve all the stakeholders in
the process of planning, priority setting and program devolopment.
Techniques such as the Primary Health Care Review, Delphi panels to



- 46 -
Annex 
Page 6 of 6
identify priority problems and to render expert judgments about how beat
to treat the problems, and other qualitative methods, e.g. focus groups
are useful means to acquire the input and the expertiso of the community.
OBJECTIVE #6: MONITOR AND EVALUATE THE MANPOWER PLANNING FUNCTION
Activity: Prenare an annual report on the health mannower situation and
acco.Dlishments.
Comments This report vill serve as a record of accomplishments, as a work
plan for the next year and as one means of monitoring and *valuating
Planning Unit effectiveness.
Activity:   Sold &anual inter-,rovincial mootings to review 2nanning
priorities, ,robloo. methods and to exchsnae results,
Comment:     A  one  week  meeting  to  exchange  experience,  review
accomplishments, coordinate future inter-provincial activities, provide
some training end to review future priorities will be useful to both
provincial and national planning efforts. It also provides a venue for
senior health and education decision makers to attend and better
understand the needs of the other perspectives.



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Training for Manpower Planners - by Year and Type of Training
PROVINCE    Training       1 993           1 994           1 995           1 996          1 997           Total I
Type      No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths
,Anhul    Shon Term         8       8.0                                                                    a       8.0
Long Term         1    112.0                                                                     1     12.0
Study Tour        1      1.0      2      2.0                                                     3      3.0
IFujian   Shon Term          3      3.0                                                                     3      3.0
Long Term                         1     12.0                                                     1     12.0
Study Tour        1      1.0      2      2.0                                                     3      3.0
Guizhou   Short Term        2       2.0                                                                    2       2.0
Long Term                                         1     12.0                                     1     12.0
Study Tour        3      3.0      2      2.0      1      1.0                                     6      6.0
Hebei     Short Term        1       1.0     3       3.0     2       2.0                                    6       6.0
Long Term         2     24.0      1     12.0                                                     3     36.0
Study Tour        1      1.0      6      6.0                                                     7      7.0
Henan    Short Term         2       2.0     3       3.0     2       2.0                                    7       7.0
Long Term                         2     24.0                                                     2     24.0
Study Tour        1      1.0      6      6.0                                                     7      7.0
Shanxl    Shon Term         4       4.0                                                                    4       4.0
Long Term                         1     12.0                                                     1     12.0
Study Tour        3      3.0      2      2.0                                                     5      5.0
req :J
ma
I.n 
tD X
0j
I..



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELQPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Training for Healh Personnel Trainers - by Year and Type of Training
PROVINCE   Training       1993            1994           1995           1996           1 997          Total
Type      No. Pern.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths
Anhul     Short Term        4      4.0     4      4.0                                                   8      8.0
Long Trm                         2     24.0                                                   2     24.0
Sudy Tour        6      6.0      4      4.0                                                 10      10.0
Fujian    Short Term                       3      3.0                                                   3      3.0
Long Term                        4     48.0                                                   4     48.0
Study Tour       6      6.0      4      4.0                                                  10     10.0
Guizhou   Short Twm         2      2.0    14     14.0                                                  16     16.0
Long Term                        2     24.0                                                   2     24.0
Study Tour      15      15.0     5      5.0                                                  20     20.0
Hebei    ShortTerm          4      4.0     2     12.0     2     12.0     2      12.0     2     12.0    12     62.0
Long Term                        2     24.0                                                   2     24.0
StudyTour       11      11.0     5      5.0                                                  16     16.0
Henan    Short Term        2       2.0     2      2.0                    6      6.0                    10     10.0
Long Term                        1     12.0     2     24.0     1     12.0                     4     48.0
Study Tour       a       8.0     7      7.0                                                  1 5    15.0
Shanxl    Short Term        8      8.0                                                                  8      8,0
Long Term                        1     12.0                                                   1     12.0
Study Tour       8      8.0      8      8.0                                                  16    16.0
:An



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Training for Managers & Supervisors - by Year and Type of Training
PROVINCE    Training      1993            1994           1995            1 996          1997           Total
Type      No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths
Anhul    Short Term                        4      4.0                                                    4      4.0
Long Term                                                                                      0      0.0
Study Tour       3       3.0                                                                  3       3.0
Fujian    Short Term     1 3       3.0                                                                   3      360
Long Term                        3     36.0                                                    3     36.0
Study Tour                                                                                     0      0.0
Guizhou   Short Term                                                                                     0      0.0
Long Term                        2     24.0                                                    2     24.0
Study Tour       3       3.0                                                                   3      3.0
Hebel    Short Term                        6       6.0                                                   6      6.0
Long Term                        1      12.0                                                   1     12.0
Study Tour       3       3.0                                                                   3      3.0
Henan    Short Term        12     12.0     8       8.0    4       4.0                                   24     24.0
Long Term                                        2     24.0                                    2     24.0
Study Tour       3       3.0                                                                   3      3.0
Shanxi    Short Term        3      3.0                                                                   3      3.0
LongTerm          1     12.0                                                                   1     12.0
Study Tour                                                                                     0      0.0
x
4o-



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Overseas Training - Effort by Year and Type of Training
PROVINCE    Training        1 993           1 9.94          1 995           1 996           1 997           Total
Type       No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths  No. Pers.mths
Anhul     Short Term        12       12    14        14      0        0      0        0      0        0    26       26.0
Long Term         1        12      4       48     0         0     0         0      0        0      5     60.0
Study Tour       13        13    11       11      0         0     0         0      0        0    24      24.0
Fupan     Shon Term          6        6      3        3      0        0      0        0      0        0      9       9.0
Long Term         0         0      8       96     2        24      0        0      0        0    10    120.0
Study Tour      11        11    14        14     0         0     0         0      0        0    25      25.0
Gulzhou   Shor Tetrm         6        6     18       18      0        0      0        0      0        0    24       24.0
Long Term         0         0      4       48      2       24      0        0      0        0      6     72.0
Study Tour       21       21       7        7      1        1      0        0      0        0    29      29.0
Hebel     Shon Term          5        5     11       21    16        26      2       12      2       12    36       76.0 ,
Long Term         2        24      4       48      1       12      0        0      0        0      7     84.0'
Study Tour       18        18    16        16     0         0      0        0      0        0    34      34.0
Henan     ShortTerm         16       16    13        13      6        6      6        6      0        0    41       41.0
Long Term         0         0      3       36      5       60      1       12      0        0      9    108.0
Study Tour       15        15    18        18      0        0      0        0      0        0    33      33.0
Shanxl    Short Term        15       15      0        0      0        0      0        0      0        0    15       15.0
LongTerm          2        24      2       24      0        0      0        0      0        0      4     48.0
Study Tour       14        14     14       14      0        0      0        0      0        0    28      28.0
0



- 51 -                                           Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Health Workers Planners to be Trained by Province
and Mode of Training
TRAINING OF DEALT! MAN1O5             AENII       FUJI"N      G!ZEoU        ml!        mm"       SHAIXI       TOTAL
|PLANNER                               IIII1       FJU          UZI            E                                OA
o of Plannerr                          111          116         162          143         100        91         725
* Provincial Level                 10          10            a          10          10          7          55
* Prefectural Levl                 25          30          24           42          Zs          6         155
* County LeeL                      76          78         130           91          62         76         515
Short-tera t3-6 weeks) Trz 
Progri Participents
* rnterprovincial                  10          30           30          17          15          7         109
* Provincial                      101         135          116         143          60         84         659
ovezsoasTours                       4           6            a           7          14          5          44
Long-tern (2-12 months) Trng/
Progrm Participants
^ Interprovincial                   0           0            0           0           0          0
* Oereas StudY                      1            1           1            3           2         3          11
Annual Working Conferences
(# of Participants)                      5           30          30           10           5          5          65
SUBI-TOTAL PARTICIPANTS                121          202         155         10          116        104         906
Technical Assistance
for N.M.P.
Foreign-person/days               236         186          116         274          228       300        1340
Local-porson/days                2954        2330         1656        2302         1437       766       11727
_--                                              



-52-                                           Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
CHIN
RURAL HEALTH WORKERLS DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Trainina  of Health  Workers bv  Province. by  Tyoe  of Traininf.
and by Laval
TRAINIM  Of IMALTU STAl             ANNUI       FUJIAM       GIflOu        minz        E3mu       SNAIEXI         TTAL
of Usalth Workes - 1990            91.560      36,533        49,467       71.000    116,366      40,299        407,245
* of AddtlUms - 1993-99              23,600        9,960       19,*92       12,500      29,560     25.916        121,030
Total Rsath W*o.kres - 1999    115,160            46,493      6S,9S9        63,500    147,946      66,217        52s,275
*+   1.sn.thu Zabesyt
Short ( * 3 mnths)              26,200       32,380        14,384        1.325        -0-      35,261        111,570
nteimedate (34- maths)          57,000       61.000           -0-      202,000      0,6840    114,640        535,460
Lo  .7+ (7 gmths)              196,200      229,004       320,680      240,902    3*6,120    129.691       1,464,797
*   P.zsom/mastbh  lre-vrvice
4  1 ye r                           -0-      25,760        34,900       12,530        -0-                     73,190
1-2 years                       -0-       33,000           -0-      90,000        -0-      156,176       279.178
3 years                      69,400       99,40       233,712       103,000       -0-       69,300        594,692
*of TooSep RIOO     Wrkeirs
lecmoftimum.the of:
Iaseuvei  TSranift           66,200       99,666      221,326      131,325    195,000    112,520          646,039
ft.-sezrtos Trainia          69,400       99,460       124,486      113,450        -0-     124,322        551,140
j   ViuLsa  Doetozu
per sou/aths oft
Zaseswtoe TraLata           165,000       61,000        99,552     312,902    172,660    122,935          954,069
lre-sezyt. Tzraiag             -0-        33,000       109,224       92,060        -0-      91,040        325,344
Other VilU.  elth moce
tersoa/mths ot:
las eao  TSraLulf            26,200      161,718        14,364         -0-      61,260     13,660       279,242
Pre-.xvtos Tru                 -0-        25,760        34,900         -0-         -0-      10,116         70,776



Ann ox 4
-5 3 -Page  3  o # 4
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NO. OF PER/MO OF PRESERVICE & INSERVICE TRAINING AT TOWNSHIP HOSPITAL
CATZT or x                             A  UI          FUJiN           UI  CU1                    8U IZW               SNAIX!          TOTAL
TOT. 15AmC =I         =  TRAIN.   *o,ooo                79,728         134,494         144,400                         122.322        530.944
ASSt. DOCTORS                           164.00          12,960          28,320          39.600                                0        97.640
*UWS!                                   24.000          12.480          14.560          33,600                          30,945        117,405
ASst. IRAUICIST                          7,200           8.824          14.540           4,000                                0        37,384
A.LT!.AAST.   0cs                            o           7,9s4          44,560           8,400                                0        32.925
LABOAT   ASS!TAIT                            0      o     ,014          10,030           3.400                                a        21.494
iMC  AS; DOC. a MIPIZiD                      0          11,620          25,440          52.300                          39,300        179.340
OTZCRS                                       0          17,464          12.214           3,400                           2,057         35.537
TOT. PUcI Z        MTZ TEA.  *           1.000         10l.,15         215,904          97,200         115,300         125,709        747.428
ASSISt1TA    DOCTS3                     34,300          25,903          46,428          27,000          '2,600          47,348        224,599
IRSZ                                    27,600          24,314          19,152          18,400          20,400          10,474        123,245
AuuIUtANT PRAIlA=t                           0           5,484          14,004           1,000           7,200          10,035         33,525
1U3.U.TU.ASSISTANT DOCTCO                    0           7,338          14,208           3.600          23,400          34,824         65.420
AUISTANT LABIOATORY                     10,00           5,5U7           9,120           5,400           7,200           4,374         42,741
MEM ASST.DOC. A IEDMWTS                      0          23,495          20,494          37,200                0         14,315         94,20    t
0TMS                                     7,500          13,459          92,494           3,400          15,000            4,117       136,672
,_ ---                                                                          



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trainin; of Non-Clinical SupRort Staff
SUPPORT STAFF  ANHUI   FUJIAN   GUIZHOU    HEBEI    HENAN    SHANXI          TOTAL
TRAINING
# of Teachers
Person/mos.
Of:
Inservice    6120    3857       10694      4055     13736      6151      44,613
# of Health
Serv. Mngrs.
Person/mos.
of:
Inservice   1690      864       3960      1587      1569      1215      10,885
* of Project
Managers
Person/mos.
of:
Inservice    120      137       231       275       137        265       1,165
# of Planning
staff
Person/mos.
of:
Inservice    330      182       273       767       247        837       2,636
TOT. SUP.
STAFF
TRAINING
Person/mos.
of:
Inservice   8260   5040       15158      6684    15689        8468      59,299
-          



- 55 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
CHIA
Rural Health Workers Develoument Proiect
Health ManDower Trainina Comoonent:
Guidina Principles, Obiectives. and Activities
1.    Guiding Principles
Involve all stakeholders in decisions.  Educational institutions face
major internal changes if they are to be responsive to the shifting needs
of the health sector coping with the health transition. Policy decisions
must involve all those perepectives with a staka in the outcome and all
the tiers,  .g. prefectural, county, township and village, affacted by the
decisions.
Eahasis on practical training. Training for improved quality primary
health care must be problem oriented, coununity based end its content must
be derived from the health needs, condition. and goals of the community.
Perforance  as the basis for reform.  Job descriptions and performance
standards provide the tools for reforms in education and training.
Training institutions may use them  for instructional objectives   and
measurement of mastery while service institutions may use them for
assigning duties end for appraising on the job performance.
Training content determinad from iob recuirements. The priority emphasis
must be in practical training that includes only the skills and knowledge
required by the tasks to be done. Tasks to be done are determined by job
analysis techniques.
Teachers as full nartners in raform. Just as it is necessary to involve
perspectives from outside education in the reform activity, it is
essential to involve teachers in plsnning curriculum change.  Teachers
should acquire ths skills of task analysis, job design, instructional
design end educational measurement.
Inservica training is a priority. Priority should be given to inservice
tra-ining. First because it provides en imediate impact on the quality of
services, snd second, because insarvice training can try out new teaching
sad learning approaches (especially in clinical settings), evaluate them
and decide if they are to be incorporated into preservice training.
Facilities snd eauiomnt serve rather than drive refor. Teaching reforms
should dictate the investment strategy in the educational institutions and
not vice versa. Major shifts toward use of clinical practice sites as
training sites are anticipated. This will require reformulating designs
of space end equipment procurement.
Inter-provincial  collaboration.   Collaboration  among  the  provincial
training  institutions  is  desirable  from  both  the  cost  and  the



- 56 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
standardization points of view.  Job descriptions, teacher training &
curriculum modules are potential project activities.
2.    Training Objectives and Activities
O&JMCTIVI #1: ESTABLISh A PROVINCIAL TRAINING NETWORK
Activity:   Assess current strecuths and limits  of existini trainina
institutions and docuoeat resources exd groductivity.
Comments Currently, there is little coordination or collaboration between
and among the various training institutions vithin a province. Linkages
among theso institutions will enable ome specialization for curricula
vith limited demand, exhange of experience and teaching materials,
standardization of content and methods and can aid in the diffusion of new
methods.  Candid assessmnts of the strengths and the limits of each
training site can serve as the basis for institutional affiliation
agreements which combine resources for a comon objective.
Activits:  Establish clLnical siteg as trainia rources.
Cinment:  A woll established clinical training facility can serve the
needs for practical training for a variety of health practitioners. These
are ezpensive to establish and maintain and should be a shared resource to
the several training institutions.
Acti-its:  Devolg0  a *rovincial train    els ln.
Comment Agreement on overall goals, objectives, strategies, and action
plans can be an effective tool to obtain cost savings and to increase
quality.  Such a plan would allocate training progrms to the several
institutions in the network. Strategies for addressing the inservice and
the proservice priorities could be defined.  Articulation between the
different levels of training programs can be defined to take advantage of
prior learning as a basis for entry into more advanced training.
Activitl:  Establish a arovince-wide teacher develoont and evaluation
Comament Pooling the resourcoe of the several training institutions vill
enable a more coprehensive and thorough approach to teacher training and
upgrading. Likewise, the potential for career ladders for teachers and
promotions vithin  and between  institutions  can be defined  and  the
standards and qualifications agreed upon.
ONLCTSIVE 12   TUAI TACEAS AND ADUINISTRATO3S OF TRAINING INSTITUTIOS
Actkitly: Inhance the skills of teachers in Lnstructional desln. and
educational macuremnt.



- 57 -
Page 3 of 4
Comment:   Short-term. (3-6 week) workshops  emphasizing  the practical
content of these activities should be the basis for increasing the
abilities of the teacher cadre. Selected teachers showing interest and
potential for further development can be identified and sent to more
advanced training emphasizing the theoretical bases and the methods
underlying  the design of instruction and its assessment.   Workshop
settings allow for exchange of idoas and positive peor influences on
adoption of new methods and materials.
Activitv: Provide national and international study tours for leaders of
academic trainin. prorams.
Coament:  Teacher training and curriculum reform will not be sustainable
without the understanding and full support of the administrators of the
training institutions.  These learning exporiences arranged for groups
will strengthen the personal and professional relations among the leaders
of these units.
Activity:  Establish an institut- with a mission of iunrovinm teacher
trainina for the health crofessions.
Comment:   Each province  should develop a university-based  institute
charged to conduct research on improved teacher performance, materials
devolopment, evaluation of teaching methods, evaluation of student
performance, inservice training for the existing teachers and the further
professionalixation (cr-dentialing) of the teachers working in health
institutions.
OBJECTIVE #3   INCRLASE THZ SKILLS 0  THE EXISTING HALTT  WORKE
Activity: Conduct an analysis of curront tob duties and traini=a needs.
Comment: The quality of the job performance of the existing workforce is
widely viewed as the most serious deficiency in the health manpower realm.
Some documentation of this will be needed to guide the planning for
improvements.   Coordination  of this activity with the job and task
analysis activity described above is strongly indicated.  Defining the
current content of the jobs and defining the standards of performance
requires input from both the educational and managerial as well as the
clinical perspectives.
Activitv: Desian. conduct and evaluate inservice tzaini. corrTeaoodence
instruction, and sunervised clinical uractice sessio  to trmet oecific
skills develoment.
Coment:  Based upon the job and performance analyses, training modules
will be  designed  to address  the most  severe    and most  prevalent
performance problems.   All possible means  of instruction  should  be
considered as the intent is to make a large and iie diate improv ement in
the quality of servico. The instruction must concentrate upon a narrow
and spocific set of skills to be improved rather than a more global,



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
general upgrading of performance.   Exporimentation and innovation are
encouraged. Careful evaluation must be a part of the effort to judge the
efficacy and the goneralizability to other setting.
Currently, many health workers (particularly village health workers) are
unclear about their responsibilities, have few back up training materials,
work with minimal resources and vork with minimal supervision of their
daily tasks.  Village doctors and midwives need inservice education to
bring their performance up to acceptable levels, to keep them up to date
with new knowledge, technologies and changing responsibilities, and to
provide a pathway for upgrading their status.
Activity- Establish educational oerformace standards analoaous to iob
performance standards to assess readiness for clinical practice.
Coment:   Educators must have standards of student performance which
simulate the performance standards in the work setting. The mathods of
appraisal of student performance must concentrate upon the application of
the practical knowledge and not just the theory. Continuing education
based up the job description and the criteria of performance established
by the BOPH is highly efficient in using the same basic materials
developed for other levels. - The BOPE knows that the inputs it pays for
are designed to achieve performance it has previously agreed to.
OBJECTIVE 14: REVISE PRESZRVICE EDUCATION TO EMPHASIZE PRACTICZ COMPETENCY
Activity:      Identify   the   clinical.   manacerial   and   educational
reasousibilities of the araduates of the varioue health professions
occuDations.
Comentt As in the case of all training development it should begin with
a thorough knowledge of the content of the work the graduates will be
expected to do and the levels of proficiency they will be expected to have
the first day on the job. This serves as the basis for faculty to choose
the knowledge, skills and behaviors to include in the course of
instruction.
Activirt: Review existina curricula to determine noeded revisions.
Coment: The reworking of teaching inputs to focus on performance engages
all departments in rethinking what and haw they teach. This review should
include the ascertaizment that each performance specified in the job
description is being addressed by some instructional setivity.
Activity:   Develou new materials and  onorosches to instruction which
emohasixo exoanded hosuital or clinic based training,
Coment: The current ratio of theory and classroom training to laboratory
and supervised clinical practice is nearly 3:1. A focus on performance
emphasizes learning by doing. lot only do the students learn more, but
the reorientation of the clinical site to its teaching responsibilities
forces a rethinking of the justification for its current procedures.



CHI"X
Rural Hoalth Worker. Develouncot Proiect
Civil Works Pln
COuSTUICTIO4
ANUI           FUJIAE          CUiZJOU          HIIRI        -O0UUU              SHANXI       TOTAL
TSAIDUC INSTITU1IOU              M2        lUc     32       UC      32       UC      32      UC       H2     UC       32     uc       K2
Provincial Tra4in  a Centor      5000      464    4000      600    2799      376     4200   440    6000   616         412    450    22411
Secondary medical Scho4l        24100      352   33223      420   30458      346    25000    396   37594    352   20425    390   170800
County Health School             19380     308   24912      420   13831      323   38600    308   22840    306   31822    340   151385
County Practice las                  0       0    1280      300    6140      360     2000   308      7157    306         0      0    16577
Touehip Practice Bace            15000     264    4234      300   11650      360     2900   264      4900    264   28900    290    67584          1
Sub-total                       63480             67649            64878            72700           78491           81559           428757
SUVICI IESTIUTOUllS
Central Tonambip Hospital            0       0      630     300    5840      340        0      0         0      0        0      0     5640
TomobiLp Bealth Center               0       0    1260      300   10052      340        0      0         0      0       0       0    11312
Sub-total                           0              1690            15892                0               0               0            17782
TOTAL                           63480              69539           80770            72700          178491           61559           446539
OCt Omit coat
F :4
1-g
a 
1-ti



SEUAILITATION
A11             V IN           culzou             Hi I            lus   II                     TOTAL
TUAINI   ITJITUTIOUS              32         UC     K2       UC      32       UC        32    UC        32     UC       H2     UC       32
ftowvic1el Traaiig Coster            0        0       0        0        0       0         0      0        0      0        0      0         0
Secoia ry  oudical Scbool          S00      300    91*       300        0        0        0      0     1526    200     1641    240    13135
ComaEy Saltk  Scbool               900      250     526      300     6096      216        0      0     2031    200    4626    200    14183
County fractice  e"                 0        0       0        0        0        0        0      0        0      0        0      0          0
Tmwhblp Pract ice De"                0        0    1455      200        0        0        0      0        0      0        0      0      1455
Sub-total                         1400            11149              6090                 0            3857            6269            28773
Coetrol Tme.mhip Soepittl         4500      200    1962      300     3670      220    2350    130    20300    150    3500    IS0    36720
Twmahip Sbelth Cantor             4000      200    3776      300     4595      220        0      0    19199    IS0   10500    150    44072
Sub-total                        5S00              5740             10273                 0           39999           14000            80792
TOTAL                             9900            16909             16371              23S0           4356           20269           109log
UCS Unit cost
0
rA



- 61 -
Annax 7
Page 1 of 3
CH
Rural Health Workers DeveloDment Proisct
EguiDment Selection Committe-
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE EOUIPMENT SELECTION CM4MIITTE (ESC)
1.    PURPOSE - The ESC, established in the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) vith
Terms of Reference approved by the Vice Minister, vill select the equipment for
procurement from the schedule of requirements and technical specifications
submitted by the provincial Bureau of Public Health (BOPL) and the qualifying
teaching institutions eligible for loan proceeds of the RHUD Project.
2.    TASKS -  The ESC will apply the agreed equipment selection criteria as
specified in Annex 1 to determine the recomended list for procuremsnt. It may
perform other related tasks as deemed necessary by the Chairman such as: (i)
collecting and providing data on product quality and durability, (ii) providing
recommendations on the efficient use of the equipment, (iii) visiting the
physical sites vhere equipments are to be installed and determining their
suitability.
3.    STRUCTURE - The ESC consists of 13 members as follows:
* The Director of the Department of Education (DOE), MOPE or his
representative as Chairman
* The Program Officer for the RMD Project,  LO, MOPH as secretary
* One reprosentative from the State Planning Comission (SPC).
* One representative of each of the six project provinces
* Four specialists from outside the project provinces  in each of the
following fieldst (i) rural primary health caret (ii) occupational or job
analysial (iii) pedagogy of clinical training at the prefecture and county
levels; and (iv) in-service traiLing and distance learning for rural
health vorkers.
The ESC, vhenever necessary, may co-opt, for the discharge of its tasks,
not more than 5 additional members who are technical specialists because of their
ad-hoc expertise needed for a specific purposo.
4.   MEETING LOGISTICS AND DECISIONS
4.1 The ESC will meet three months prior to the announcement of the bid
invitations in the second and fourth year of project implementation.
4,2  At least three months before the scheduled meetings, the provincial BOPE
vill submit the equipment list with specificaticon to the LO.



- 62  -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
4.3   The secretary will  check to ensure all necessary data are submitted,
consult the chairman regarding the need for co-opting technical
specialists, collate the lists from all 6 provinces, collect further
technical data as deemed necessary and send the total package to members
of the ESC at least 2 weeke before the scheduled meeting date.
4.4   Before the meeting, ESC members will review the submitted information and,
vherever necessary, request additional information, from the secretary or
the provincial BOPH through the secretary.
4.5   At the meeting, the presence of  8 members  (excluding the co-opted
members), will constitute a quorum. Each member (excluding the co-opted
members) has one vote and the chairman has a casting vote. A motion is
carried vith a simple majority.
4.6   The ESC will use the selection criteria to review the items on the
submitted lists and determine those that are:
* approved;
* approved with revision of specifications and advice on effective and
efficient usage and maintenance;
* rejected giving reasons for rejection as taken from the selection
criteria.
4.7   The Secretary of the ESC will keep minutes of the meetings and record of
decisions made by circulation and submit it before an affixed deadline to
members of the ESC.
5.    EXPENSES
Expenses for travel and communication will be covered by the central
component.
6.   ANIUDHENTS
The terms of reference of the ESC may, from time to ties, whenever
necessary, be smended by MOPH/FLO and IOPH/DOE after consultation with all other
ESC members and the details will be added after approval by the Vice Minister.
7.    TERMINATION
The ESC may be terminated by the Vice Minister but not before the closing
of the RED project.



- 63 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING TRAINING EOUIPMENT
A. EFFECTIVENESS IN ACHIEVING THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
1.    The equipment is to be used to suDport student learning and teaching in the
provincial training center, the secondary medical schools, the county health
schools and the practical training bases
2,    The equipment must be used effectively in the revised curriculum in
conjunction with new teaching methods that are developed as a result of the
development of complete job descriptions based upon task analyses in the first
year of the project.
3.    The degree of technological sophistication of the equipment should be
appropriate for the level of teachine under modern scientific conditions.
Obsolete models should not be selected but new technological advances should be
screened carefully.
4.     The equipment is going to be used regularly and frequentlv . If it is not
frequently required for teaching or learning purposes, the possibility of using
similar equipment available from other departments in the same school or
neighbouring health or teaching institutions should be considered.
5.     The equipment must be  ipproDriate to the doveloDment of the skills which
the trainee will perform in the health services delivery institution. Much of
the learning will occur in practice settings (not in classrooms) and in self-
study programs. The equipment should be easily available to support student use
and should not be limited to use by teachors.
B. UTILIZATION AND MAINTENANCE
6.    The recurrent cost in terms of consumables, supplies and spare parts should
not be hieh.
7.    The consumables and spare parts are easily available locally.
8.    The county has the caDabilitv to maintain the equipment as evidenced by
qualified maintenance staff or agreement to signed service contracts.
9.    The purchasing institution has trained Dersonnel to use the equipment.
10.   There is budaetarv Rrovision for the recurrent cost.
11.   Notwithstanding regulations governing bidding procedures, the cualitv and
durabilitv of the product as judged by past experience of members of the ESC
should be taken into consideration.



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swmy of Foreign and Local TA ReqP  ,nws by Province aid Year
Pemon lmon    FdRign Tecslic Assatm
ProiSc        Prvnce                                                             Total
C93      94        95       96       97       98      Freign
Malpwer'   Anhk              3.6       1.7      1.0      0.4      0.5       0.7      7.9
PImvn        Film            1.1       1.0      1.8      0.5      12        0.5      6.1
G'Mzou          0.5      1.2       0.7      0.1      0.8      0.5       3.8
Hebei           1.5      0.6       42       1.1      1.2      0.5       9.1
Haw             1.5       0.6      27       1.1      0.2      1.5       7.6
Shad            3.6      0.6       2.3      1.7      1.0      0.9      10.1
Training                     1.5       29       2.9      1.9       1.7      23      13.2
Ft*mn           0;2       23       2.6      2.6      1.3      0.1       9.1
GuWio           26        1.9      1.7      1.7      0.8      1.0       9.7
Hebsi           Q3        5.0      5.1      5.2      4.4      0.2      20.2
How             0.3      3.6       3.4      3.4      2.5      1.4      14.6
Shlau           0.4       26       3.3      3.4      29       0.6      132
wiAgmnt&  Anti               2.5       20       1.0      1.1       1.1      0.5      8.2
SLpension    Fali            4.5       3.5      1.9      1.7       1.7      02      13.5
G'dzhou         2.7       3.4      2.1      2.0      1.9      0.3      12.4
131             1.9      3.0       2.5      2.3      22       0.3      122
Hmn             4.3      4.5       2.1      21       2.1      0.6      15.7
Shard           27        1.8      2.0      0.5      1.0      0.0       8.0
Proijct      Anhti            1.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.5      2.1
lMbAisgeme    FLuan          0.6       0.3      0.3      1.3       0.3      0.8      3.6
Guklzou         0.8       0.5      0.3      1.0      0.0      1.1       3.7
Hebsi           0.6       0.5      0.3      0.0      0.0      0.5       1.9
Hem             1.0       0.5      0.1      0.0      0.0      1.0       2.6
Sharud          1.7      1.1       2.1      1.1      1.1      1.4       8.5
To1a         Anhiu           9.3       6.5      4.9      3.3      3.2       4.0     31.2                I
Futli           6.4      7.1       6.7      6.2      4.4      1.7      325                   x
Guizhou         6.7       7.0      4.8      4.7      3.5      2.9      29.6                 co
Iebel           4.4      9.1      12.0      8.6      7.8      1.5      43.4                o
Heran           7.1       9.2      8.3      6.6      4.8      4.5      40.5
Sharxi          8.4      6.1       9.6      6.7      5.9      2.9      39.6
TOTAL                       42.3       45      46.3     36.1     29.6      17.5    216.8



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH VDFRKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summnway of Foreign and Local TA Requiremenis by Province and Year
Person onths of Local Technial Assisance
Protec          Provnce                                                         Total
Component                  93       94       95       96       97       98      Local
MWapoM         Ant           31.2     30.3     10.3    11.5      6.1       9.0     98.4
Planning      Fu4an          12.9    22.8      21.9     6.8      6.1       7.3     77.8
Guizhou       11.9    25.5       8.3     6.2       2.3      7.6     61.8
Hebel         20.5     24.6     13.4     8.2      5.1       7.7     79.5
Henum         14.5    10.6      10.0      62       1.8     3.9      47.0
Shard          9.2      1.3     4.4      4.7      3.0       2.9    25.5
rflian   nhua                 3.3      87      125      123      11.8     10.8    59.4
FLupa          2.4    44.6      49.3    49.5      26.0      9.7    181.5
GuLzhou       10.5    40.5      832      77.8     60.4    46.1    31&5
Hebei          4.6     15.4     16.1     1&1      15.2      4.6     74.0
Henan          1.3    31.0      30.9    30.7      26.9     20.0    140.8
Shand          0.8      6.0      9.5     9.7       84       1.3    35.7
4atagemert&   AnhLi          11.1      72       52       5.5      5.4     2.6    37.0
Suprision     Fuian          18.4     12.9     &8       7.4       7.4      1.0    55.9
Guizhou       20.8    19.1      11.7      92       9.1      1.1     71.0
Hebei          9.4     10.8      9.7     8.8       8.6      0.8    48.1
Henan         18.7    15.1      10.0     9.7      9.1       2.3     64.9
Shnhd         10.3     9.1       8.9     5.1       6.8      0.0    40.2
ProWect       Anhw            3.0      1.2     1.1      2.0       1.0      1.8    10.1
MwItagemut    Fupin           2 7      0.9      0.7    10.7       0.7     11.6    27.3
Guizhou       22.2      4.7      2.9     7.7       0.0     15.0    52.5
abel           1.3      1.0      0.5     1.0       0.0     2.0      5.8
Hernan         2.3      1.0      0.2     1.0       0.0     2.0      6.5
Shard          2.8      1.3     3.3      1.3       1.3     3.1      13.1
Total         Anh            48.6    47.3    29.1       31.3     24.4     24.3    205.0
Fujal         36.4     81.2     80.7    74.4     40.1      29.7    342.5
Guizhou       65.4    89.9    106.0    100.9      71.8     69.9    503.9                      Ca
Hebei         35.7     51.8    39.8    36.0      28.8      15.0   207.1
Herian        36.8     57.7    51.1      47.6    37.8      28.2    259.2
Sharud        23.1     17.7    26.1     20.8      19.5     7.2    114.4
TOTAL                        246    345.6    332.8      311    222.4    174.3   1632.1



- 66 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
CHIN
Rural Hcalth Workerm Development Proiect
Manazina Health Services:
Guiding Principles. Obiectives and Activities
1.    Guiding Principles
Supervision is essential to assure auslity. Supervision is also training
and staff development. Regular and-competent supervision based upon well
defined job descriptions and performance standards providce feedback on
performance,  detects  needs  for  additional  training,  and  offers
encouragement and recognition necessary to maintain morale.
Adeau&to and stable compensation systems are essential. Recruitment and
retention of competent staff depend in large measure on the adequacy and
the stability of the workers compensation package.   This goes beyond
salary to include paid training opportunities, planned and systematic
upgrading of pay and benefits through promotion or job enrichment, fringe
benefits, etc.
Workine conditions and the work desian must suooort the worker. Adequate
performance depends upon the appropriate tools, aide, supplies, materials,
equipment  and  yell  designed  procedures.    Frequently,  poor  worker
performance is due to deficiency of the working environment or poorly
designed work procedures.
Incentive systems must  unooort health toals.  Adequate incentives for
conduct of prevention and primary care activities must be provided to
balance the current structure which gives the greatest financial rewards
for more complex treatment oothods.
Career laddars lead to efficient use of mannover. The ability to retain
experienced workers protects the investment in their training, provides
stability to the organization, and demonstrates comitment and loyalty
from the organization enhancing morale.  It is good policy to promote
these experienced and competent workers into leadership positions, or to
enrich their current positions in recognition of worker growth.
Eliminate numerical oals or auotas and eliminate annual nerformance
ratint of individuals.   It is impossible to separata an individuals
performance from that of the systm. Meeting short taro objectives stated
in terms of quotas places the emphasis on quantity rather than quality.
2.    Management Objectives and Activities
OBJECTIVZ #Is  PROVIDE FOR DEVELOPHINT O  KAN&GERS AID SUPERVISORS
Activity: Train sataters and supervisors for their roles and sunnort thm
with techoolpo dcc whch stroeathen their knowledts of the work content an
the standards of gerformancc



- 67 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
Comment: Perhaps the most critical factor affecting the success of health
services delivery in a decentralized system is the knowledge and
interpersonal skills of the managerial and supervisory staff. Developing
management/supervisory talent is more than providing training in human
relations,  motivation,  leadership,  etc.   It requires an information
system that informs both workers and supervisors about the content of the
work to be performed and the standards of performance that are required.
It requires that tools and procedures for job design, recruitment,
selection, orientation, on the job training, staff development, and
performance appraisal be based upon this data base and that all these
procedures are based upon a common description of the job.
OBJECTIVE t2: IMPROVE WORKING CONDITIONS
Activity: Analyze for and remove barriers that rob workerc of pride in
their verformance.
Coment: Management must discover what hinders peoples work. That means
asking several questions: Do employees understand what their jobs are? Do
they know what level of work is acceptable? Have they boen adequately
trained? Is the equipment they use in good condition? Are they getting the
assistance they need from the supervisory structure? Is there an effective
way for them to report problems or suggestions? Is prompt action taken to
resolve problems?
Activity:  Constantly improve the work irocodurs.,
Comment:  Standardization can lead to rigidity and the perpetuation of
inefficient or ineffective procedures.  Management must be willing to
reevaluate its procedures and to revise them to support the work and the
workers. A work climate free from fear: to ask questions, to ask for
further instructions, to express ideas for change, to express issues about
working conditions is necessary to obtain the participation and wisdom of
the workers who know exactly what the barriers are.
OBJECTIVE 13: IMPROVE PZRIORMANCZ STANDARD SETTING AND APPRAISAL
Activityt   Eliminate work standards that ursccrLbe numerical auotas--
substitute leadershin and gualitv upervisiLon
Comment:  The problm  with quotas and standards is that they are based
upon averages, which means that half of the workers may fail to reach the
standard. Shoddy performance and poor workmanship are allowed to slip by
because of urgent nood to produce. The key to productivity and quality is
to look for differenco in performance and to croate an atmosphere of
receptivity to new ideas. Discovering how and why tho highly productive
workers achieve provides clues to systom improvement.
Activitv: D*volov aouraisal and feedback systme that do not rely on
insvectlons of the final Product, i.e. rocords audit.



- 68q -
Ane  9
Page 3 of 4
Cooents Concentrate on improving the proc.s. and showing poople how to
do their work more accurately and officiently. Change the role of the
supervisor from quality police to quality coach. This will require change
in the organization throughout all its tier. All appraisal is aimed at
improving performance and must necessarily take the conditions of work
into account.
OECTIVE #43 PROVIDZ REGULAR ON-TUE-JOB TRAIlING
Activity:   Ascss. trainina  needs. n-rovid  on site f-odback.  identify
performance oroblem that have training solutious. and provide on sitc
training
Coment:  Too often workers learn their jobs from workors who are poorly
trained, inadequately supervised or from inadoquate written doscriptions
of job duties and performance standards. Many workars do not kno what
constitutes a good or a bad job. Training in this case is not a fringe
benefit for employees, it is a specific prescription for improving an
aspect of performance that is deficient due to incomplete knowledge,
inadequate practice, or incorrect tochnique.
ActivitY:  Identity nerformace vroblm  that are due to enviromntal or
attitudinal caus-e wad nrovido a response,
Coent:  Frequently, the underlying cause of performance discrepancy is
not lack of skills, knowledge or practice, but rather som constraint in
the work environmont or in the incentive structure that affects vorker
motivation. While a formal "training' intervention is not appropriate, it
is important to discover more about the factors inhibiting performance.
Group feedback sessions designed to diagnose the nature of the problem and
suggest solutions can have very positive effects on morale and
participation. Do not leave these matters unattended.
OBJECTIVE #5:  UPGRADE FACILITIZS AND LQUIPIENT.
Actvlitv: Provide remalar insuctions and preventivo aintenance activity
or all facilities and eauigUMnt *  R ir or roulace as needed, Procure
auality uroducts which meet the standards of use,
Cosents It is the job of management to provido the means of production
and to maintain the workplace and the tools, aids, materials, supplios in
ufficient amounts and in good working order. The practice of awarding
contracts to the lowest bidder may not support performance.  Manag e  nt
must understand how and where these materials will be used and create
specifications to match the conditions of performance.
OJEZCTIVE #6s  INSTALL ADEQUATZ, AND STABLE COKPNESATION AND INCENTIVE SYSTES
WHICH SUPPORT PROGRAM GCOAL
Activity:  Develop new a*uroaches to finance rural hoelth services  nd



- 69 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
alternativo incentive schmes to pay the rural health workers,
Conment:  Unless rural health workers are paid adequately they may not
stay on their jobs and their trained skills and knowlodge would become
unavailable to the health sector. Moreover, appropriate incentives must
be given to implement the national policy of "Prevention First" and to
give priority to primary health care.   This will also require that
rasponsibilities and functions of county, township and village personnel
will be coordinated and managed to achieve greater quality of sorvices at
affordable cost.



- 7n -
Annex 10
Page I of 7
CHINA
Rural Health Workers Development Proiect
Financing and Payment of Rural Health Services - Study Design
Problem statement
China had an organized system of community financing of preventive and
primary care services for the rural popu-lation. Health workers were organized
and paid by the agricultural collectives. Since the agricultural reform of early
1980'., the community financing and organization of primary care services have
collapsed in most of the poor rural areas which created the following problems:
(a) Many trained health workers for the village and township levels cannot
be sustained due to the lack of financial support. Trained health workers sought
other gainful employment or moved. Many villages have no village doctors (V.D.)
For example , 602 of the villages in the province of Guizhou have no V.D.
Prevention is neglected and people lack access to primary care services.
(b) The current payment system creates perverse economic incentives. Most
of the V.D. practice on a fee-for-service basis. Since visit fees are set by the
government at a very low level, the V.D. generate their income by prescribing and
dispensing drugs, and giving injections.
(c) The V.D. and the township health centers are not organized together and
their respective services are not adequately delineatod, coordinated and managed.
Consequently, a majority of the township health vorkers are under-utilized due
to the duplication and competition between V.D. and township health centers. The
average health worker at the township health center is only productive half of
the time. On the other hand, the V.D. are spending as much as 752 of their time
on non-health related activities such as farming.  Moreover, the quality of
primary care services is not being managed and monitored.
Obiective of the Financing and Payment Studies
Develop suitable approaches to finance the village and township health
workers so they can be sustained and perform their vork in an efficient and and
effective manner to improve the health status of the rural population.
Strategies to Achieve the Obiective
1. The rural communities would be stratified into five or six levels
according to their socioeconomic development. For each level, develop one or two
models of financing and organization of preventive and primary care health
services that can be put into practice by most of the towns and villages in that
level of socioeconomic development.
2. These models would be developed with rigorous scientific methods so
there will be strong confidence in their vorkability, validity and credibility.
These models would be derived through quantitative evaluation of current



- 71 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 7
approaches, and experimenting with different prepayment schemes of financing,
with alternative methods of paying V.D., and various ways of organizing and
managing the V.D. and township health centers.
3. The models will be developed according to a orderly process. First, the
cost per capita for preventive and primary care services in a comunity will be
determined through needs assessment and demand analysis. Second, the economic
capacity  to pay and willingness to pay by the farmers, rural collective
enterprises, and local government would be evaluated. Prepayment schemes would
be designed and experimented after these evaluations.
Alternative methods of paying the V.D. would be designed and experimented
after assessing attitudes of V.D. and their behavioral responses to economic
incentives and administrative measures.
Alternative ways of organizing and managing V.D. and township health
centerra will be tried after evaluating the functions and responsibilities of
respective health workers, the organizational and economic dynamice among the
personnel, the relationship between the villago comittees, Parmers' Cooperative
Fund, township government and the health centers.
Activities and Steov to be Carried out
Tho proposed scope of activities are planned in light of the following
situations:
The four project provinces participating in this study cover 100 million
poople, located in 242 counties, 3,775 towns and 79,859 villages. Currently, the
five provinces have at least six approaches in financing and more than seven
approaches in paying the V.D.
There are approximately five levels of socioeconomic development covered
by the project. At each level of development, it is desirable to experiment with
at least two ways of mobilizing financial resources to support preventive and
primary health services, three different methods of paying V.D., and two
approaches in organizing and managing township hospitals and village clinics.
There should be three sites for each category of experiment.  With these
variables in mind, there should be about 200 experimental township sites.
However, due to budgetary considerations, the studies propose a total of 100
sites in the five provinces. The folloving activities are planned with this
number of sites in mind.
Pro-oroiect Activities:
Each province will conduct a baseline study of the goneral conditions on
rural health care financing and payment at the county, township and village
levels. Data will be collected from evory county and then data will be collected
from three randomly selected towns of each county and throe randomly selected
villages of the surveyed towns.  Surveys of village leaders and V.D. will be
conducted to assess their attitudes toward financing and payment of the V.D.



Annes 1 0
Page 3 of 7
This study will be completed by April 1, 1993. The survey instruments are shown
as Exhibits 1,2,3,4,5.
Proiect Activities:
Activity 11: Evaluation of the current approaches in financing and
organization of rural health services.
Step 1:  Household survey and evaluation.  Collect household data to
evaluate people's health status, needs, demand, utilization rates, current total
and out-of-pocket health expenditures, economic capacity and villingness to pay,
satisfaction vith the current system and opinions about alternative methods of
financing and organization of rural health services. Each province would conduct
a household survey in 50 towns, sampling 400 households in each town.  This
survey will be completed by the end of the first year of project implementation.
A preliminary design of survey instrument is shown as Exhibit 6. The sample size
represents approximately 2.81 of the households. Surveys should be completod by
the end of project year I end evaluations vill be completed 18 months after the
project began.
Stop 2. Data collection and evaluation of village health stations. Each
province vould collect data from a sample of IS0 village health stations to
assess the preventive, maternal and child health, family planning and public
health vork being performed, illnesses being treated, patient referral to
township and county hospitals, drug prescribing and dispensing, and quality of
services being offered. The sample sizs represents about 1.1 of the village
health stations. The data collection would be completed before the end of year
I and the evaluativions vould be completed 18 months after the project bogan.
Step 3: Data collection and evaluation of selected township hospitals.
Each province vould collect data from a sample of 50 township hospitals to assess
their functions, productivity, quality of sorvices, relationship vith the V.D.,
sources of revenue, expenditures and management.  The sample sixz  represents
about 3.5S of the towncship hospitals. The data collection would be completed
before the end of year I and evaluation would be completed 18 months after the
project began.
Step 4: Evaluation of comaunity organizations. Each province would select
a sample of 200 townships to evaluate their coesunity organizations. The study
would assess the functions and interrelationship among the various organizations,
their ablity to represent the interest of the farme  and the popular confidence
enjoyed by the organization.  This part of the study would ascertain vhich
organization can most effectively mobilize financial resources from the farmers
for health services and provide the external supervision of the health service
delivery unit. This study is to be completed by the end of year 1.
Step 5: Survey the attitudes of health cadres. Conduct a survey of health
cadres to ascertain their judgements on the financing, organization and
management of rural health services and administrative feasibility of various



- 73 -
Annex lO
Page 4 of 7
approaches.  This survey is to be completed nine months after the project has
began. The preliminary survey instrument is shown as Exhibit 5.
Activity #2: Scientific Experimentation
Step 1: Select experimental and control sites. All five provinces would
uniformly stratify their townships and villages into different levels of
socioeconomic development. Each province would select 20 experimental townships
and another comparable 20 townships as control sites.  This task should be
completed at the end of year l.
Step 2: Design the experimentation on the financing and payment of V.D. and
obtain agreement from the 20 townships to carry out these evaluative studies. The
design would focus on the three variables: different methods of mobilizing local
funds to support the rural health services, alternative methods of paying the
V.D., and various ways to organize and manage the village clinics and township
hospitals. The design work relies on what is learned from the assessments of the
current approaches and the evaluative studies outlined in Activity #1. This task
should be completed 15 months after the project has began.
Step 3: Implement the experiments.  This part includes the training of
personnel at the prefectural, county, township and village level to carry out
these studies. The experiments should be implemented 18 months after the projact
has began.
Step 4s  Monitor and evaluate the eperimentation.  The study vill be
carried on for 3 to 4 years. Each year, data will be collected to analyze the
successes, failures, problems, health status of the population, preventive and
public health conditions, patients' satisfaction, public support, stability and
productivity of the health workers, stability of financing, behavioral responses
of V.D. to different payment methods, organizational behaviors under different
management approaches, efficiency and effectiveness of health care delivery,
quality of health services and drug usage. The annual data collection includes
household surveys, examination of a sample of patients' records at the township
hospitals and village health stations, and financial analysis. Data would be
collected from both the experimental and control sites.
Step 5: Final asoesement of the experimnt. Comprehensive data vould be
collected to answer the following questions: (i) under what circumstances the
farmers, rural collective enterprises, and local goveruents are capable and
willing to jointly prepay the rural health servies;l (11) how much money could
be mobilized from these sources when towns and villages are at different levels
of socioeconomic development; (iii) vhat is the cost per capita for the
preventive and primary care services and for hospital in-patient services; (iv)
which financing methods are most stable and sustainablel (v) how do V.D. react
to economic incentives (e.g. various payment methods) and management measures;
(vi) what payment levels, payment approach, and working conditions vould retain
the V.D. and health workers in their health jobs and perform the appropriate
services; (vii) how to organize and manage the township hospitals and V.D. to
obtain the most cost-offective preventive and primary care services; (viii) which



_ 74o -
Annex  l0
Page 5 of 7
financing and organizational arrangements give the most satisfaction to the
people and deliver the best quality of services. The scope of data collection
and analysis for the final assessment are comparable to the initial assessment
done in the first and second year as described in Activity #1. This task should
be largely complete.. by the end of year 5.
Activity #3: Develop models of financing and payment and assist in the
general adoption of these models.
Step 1: Design the models of financing and payment for each level of
socioeconomic development, based on the quantitative analysis and other findings
from the evaluation of the current approaches and the experimentation results.
Organize focus groups composed of farmers, V.D., other health workers, village
and township leaders, and health cadres to help design the models.  Organize
seminars to obtain comments to refine the models. This task should be completed
at the beginning of year 6.
Stop 2: Develop training manuals on how to adopt the models, the
implementation steps, methods of community assessment, the actuarial and
accounting methods, job descriptions of the health workers, the administrative
procedures and management techniques.
Step 3: Educate the public and local officials on the findings of these
evaluative studies and the resulting models developed from them, and obtain their
acceptance to adopt these models.
Step 4: Provide training and technical assistance to the towns that adopt
the models.
Activity #4: Organization and Administration of the Evaluative Studies.
Step 1: Organization and staffing. Staff requirement would be:
Provincial level:
Director of the evaluative studies: I FTE person
Technical staff (a statistician and an economist): 2
Field supervisor: 1 person
Computer programs r: 1 person
Keypuncher for data entry: 2 persons
Clerk: I person
Prefectural levels
Field    supervisor:    2    persons    (assuming    the    studies
will be done at two prefectures in each province)
County level:
Field supervisor: 4 persons (assuming the studies will be
mainly done at four counties)
Township level:
Supervisor: 20 half-time persona one at each site
Step 2: Staffing for the data collection and tabulation of data may be
contracted to a provincial institution.   The design of surveys and complex



- 75 -
Annex 1 0
Page 6 of 7
analysis of data will be done mainly through domestic and foreign technical
assistance.
Stop 3: Training of the staff.   The staff has to be trained on the
objective and methods of these studies, the substantive issues to be answered by
the studies,and certain basic knowledge and methods such as statistical methods,
computer progrtming, economics, behavorial sciences, research design, sampling,
management sciences, health care financing and payment, field interviewing, data
verification.
Training conducted at the inter-provincial level: an
initial 8 week session on the purposes of the studies, basic knowledge and
methods. The staff will return to the provinces and actually carry out some of
the work then return for another 6 week training session. Also the computer
programmers, statisticians and economists will be trained at the inter-provincial
level in specializad short tarm courses.
Training conducted at each provincial level: these sessions are for the
local field supervisors who will implement the studies.
Study missions and training overseas: a study mission composed of 4-5
people from each province will undertake a one month study tour overseas. Each
province will also s*nd one or two persons for a one year ovarseas training.
Activity #5s Technical Assistance
Tachnical assistances is nooded in seven major activities described below.
Technical assistance would be provided by domestic and foreign experts through
long term institutional arrangements. It has been estimated that, in terms of
man-months, the ratio of domestic technical assistance would be three timea that
of foreign technical assistance.
Step 1: Training. First year training involves a general training that
takas an eight-week session with a six-week follow-up session.  There would be
several specialized training courses for subjects such as computer programming,
statistical analysis and sampling methods.
Second year training involves a course on the design of the experiments and
their implementation. This course may take eight weeks. In addition, there will
be specialized courses.
Third year and fourth year training involves a 4-week course on the
*valuation of the progress and implementation of the studies. There will also
be several specialized courses.
Fifth year training involves a 8-week training course on the evaluation of
the results from the experiments and on the design of the models of financing and
payment.
Stop 2: Analyze the current conditions in each province and the data that
already existed bofore the project begins.



- 76 -
Annex I10
Page 7 of 7
Step 3: Field work and investigations in each province to understand the
real practices and conditions in the rural sector.
Stop 4: Design the data collection instruments, pilot testing, training the
field staff, design the sampling framework, supervise and monitor the data
collection process.
Stop 5:  Establish and test hypotheses, perform the more complicated
quantitative analysis, derive conclusions based on scientific principles.
Step 6: Select the variables that will be tested by the field experiments,
design the experiments and the data to be collected to assess the effects of the
variables, establish the method to compare experiences of the control sites vith
the experimental sites.
Stop 7: Design the models of financing and payment of rural health services
by different levels of socioeconomic development.
Activity t6s Reporting Findings.
Preparation of progress reports and final report according to the following
schedule and under the responsibility of the indicated organizational unit:
Progress Reports: Annual progress reports must be submitted by each
experimental township to the provincial office.  The provincial office vill
compile the vhole progress report and include a section on its own progress and
activities.  The progress report should include the income  nd wxpenes of the
study for the fiscal year and cumulative since the beginning of the project. The
provincial reports would be sent to MOPH/DOGA which is responsible for
transmitting the reports to the World Bank.
Final Report:



- 77 -
Page L of 8
CHINA
Rural Health Workers DeveloDment Proiect
Central ComDonent
The central component would augment the institutional capacity of threo
MOPH departments for coordinating and supporting project implementation
activities. The Department of Education (DOE) would strengthen its capability
to carry out its national mandate in manpower planning and manpower policy
formulation. It would provide technical assistance to the project provinces and
evaluate project activities in order to disseminate the experience gained to the
rest of the country. The Department of Medical Administration (DOI&) vould lead,
monitor and assist in the execution of the activity dealing with financing of
rural health services and the payment of rural health workers. The Foreign Loan
Office (FLO) would monitor overall project execution against targets and pay
special attention to procurement and disbursement issues.
A. MOPH/Deivrtment of Education
I.    Background
The Rural Health Workers Development Project is the first large scale
project in rural health manpower development since the introduction of economic
reforms in the late 1970s. Until now DOE has focused its attention on training
medical doctors at the lev-l of three-year medical colleges and of medical
universities.
The Department of Education (DOE) in MOPE will provide assistance and
guidance in coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the activities in the project
provinces and disseminate the experience thus gained to the rest of the country.
In the execution of its duties, DOE would strengthen its capability in health
manpower planning and policy formulation; new educational theories and teaching
methodologies; and the ability to coordinate its activities with other line
departments in MOPh.
II.   Objectives of the Central Component
*     strengthen the national capability in health manpower planning (MIP)
and cocmunity-based medical education (CHT) and develop a systm of
coordination among the line departments in MOPE concerned with IMP -
Activities 1, 2 & 6
*     guide, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the project -
Activities 3 & 5
*     assimilate the experience gained in the project areas, disseminate
the information to the rest of the country in order to improve the
standard of community-based medical training (CMT) in non-project
provinces - Activities 4 & 5
*     develop MIP and CMT policies, logistics and methodology appropriate
for modern China - Activities L & 4



Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 8
III.  Activities
1.    Strengthen the capacity of MOPH in health manpower planning and develop
coordinating mechanism among the line departments in MOPH.
1.1   Form a leading group among the line departments with the objective of
developing a national strategy in HMP. Regular consultation with experts
in the field will be conducted to find solutions to prevailing problems.
Technical Assistance will be provided to help organize two meetings in
Beijing for the leading group (1993-96).
1.2   Collect  information  on  current  capacity  for  HMP  in  the  country.
Information will be collected by the use of a questionnaire to all
provincial BOPH with follow-up site visits by a researcher. The leading
group will meet in Beijing with experts to discuss the findings of the
study in order to formulate a strategy for action (1993-96).
1.3   Evaluate and disseminate the experience gained from the REWD project.
Visits to project provinces will take place in 1995 and 1996 to collect
information. As a result of such consultation, a nationwide conference on
RHWD will be conducted.
1.4   Improve the knowledge and skills in HMP and develop awareness of the need
for HMP through overseas training for representatives from different line
departments and overseas study tours for representatives from related
ministries.
1.5   Improve the operational efficiency of the DOE team through improved office
equipment.
2.    Strengthen the national capacity to conduct research and training in HMP
through support and utilization of a center of excellence at Shanghai
Medical University Department of Social Medicine.
2.1   Improve the capacity of SMU to train staff from MOPh and provincial BOPH
through overseas training in 1993 and the acquisition of audiovisual
equipment.
2.2   Disseminate information on EMP to medical administrators and planners at
central and provincial levels by publishing a newsletter on EMP twice
yearly, editing and translating HMP educational material for use in
workshops and teaching sessions, and conducting EMP workshops for planners
and administrators at provincial and central levels, 1993-96.
2.3   Conduct EMP research int
* planning methodology
* evaluation of health manpower utilization
* evaluation of health manpower management (1992-96).



- 79 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 8
2.4   Use existing HMP data base to analyze trends in the requirements for
training different categories of health care workers in the country in
order to help MOPH develop HMP strategies and policies, and organize HMP
policy development workshops for MOPH.
3.    Coordinate and assist in organizing interprovincial project activitiest
* job analysis, workload standards, develop planning data bases
* job description and training objectives
* design and develop curriculum
* develop educational material -
* develop evaluation methods
* upgrade management and supervision capacity
3.1   Conduct  interprovincial  workshops       planning  content  and  agenda,
coordinate invitation of participants and evaluate outcome:
* develop workshop content and background material
* attend interprovincial planning workshop
* evaluate report of outcome of workshop as prepared by hosting province
3.2   Organize overseas training : coordinate and evaluate overseas training
* prepare the terms of reference for the training or study tours
(objectives, subject matter, destination and host, duration, trainee
selection criteria)
* help provinces select candidates and prepare them for the overseas trip
* evaluate the outcome of the training based on reports from the trainee
and the overseas trainer
* where applicable, hold debriefing meetings to relevant personnel from
project provinces.
4.    Determine national policy and development of community-based medical
education
4.1   Evaluate  project  activities with  regard  to the following:  training
objectives, curriculum, teaching material and methods, standards for
teachers, schools and examinations.
4.2   Determine  national  requirements  for  the  award  of  certificates  for
graduates of CMT programs (1994).
4.3 Formulate national policy for developing community-based medical education
including formulating evaluation indicators (1995).
4.4   Disseminate recormendations to the rest of the country through national
meeting and regional meetings (1996).
5.    Coordinate the development of appropriate teaching materials for rural
health workers



- f3() -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 8
5.1   Based on the result of the interprovincial activities, determine the
overall strategy in developing teaching materials - the topics, the media,
the key editor and producer, the quantity, the quality, the projected
number, the cost, the financial support and the ownership of the copyright
(1993).
5.2   Design the action plan, organize the bidding for the production of the
teaching material (1994) and supervise the production and distribution
(1995-96).
5.3   Coordinate the evaluation of the material by teachers and students in
order to effect improvements in future editions.
5.4   Production of videos for inservice training of village health workers.
The MOPH has a leading group for the production of medical education
material with terms of reference in planning, organizing, and distributing
audiovisual  teaching material.    Its past  experience  give-  MOPH  a
comparative advantage in the production of high quality and low cost
material.  This would be more cost-effective than production by each
province (1994-96).
6.    Strengthen the capability of the MOPH/DOE to provide guidance in the
delivery of community-based medical education
6.1   Provide overseas training in the following areaas
* teaching methods and material (1994-95)
* curriculum design (1994)
* research & evaluation of medical education (1995, 1996)
* distance loarning (1994)
6.2   Organize overseas study tours in the areas oft
* comunity medical education (1994)
* continued medical education (1995)
* education manag eme nt (1996)
6.3   Procure additional office equipment for the efficient execution of the
above activities.



- RA -
Page 5 of 8
IV. Estimated Cost
Expenditure                                        Total Cost
(1,000 Yuan)
Equipment                                           190.0
Study & Research                                   1021.8
Technical Assistance
Local                                            64.5
Foreign                                         602.7
Training
Local                                             0
Foreign                                        1114.0
Total                                              2993.0
B. MOPH/Delartment of Medical Administration
I. Problem Statement for Financing and Payment Studies
China had an organized system of coemunity financing of preventive and
primary care services for the rural population. Health workers were organized
and paid by the. gricultural collectives. Since the agricultural reform of the
early 1980' , the coununity financing and organization of primary care services
have collapsed in most of the poor rural areas which created the following
problems: (i) many trained health workers at the village and township levels
cannot be sustained due to the lack of financial support, and trained health
workers sought other gainful employment or moved; (ii) the current payment system
creates perverse economic incentives forcing village doctors to generate income
by prescribing and dispensing drugs, and giving injections; and (iii) services
of the village health clinics and the township hospitals are not adequately
defined, coordinated and managed.
II. Objectives
The Rural Health Workers Development Project would develop suitable
approaches to finance health workers in the village clinics and township
hospitals so they can be financially sustained and perform their work in an
efficient and an effective manner to improve the health status of the rural
population. It would,  inter alia,  investigate  the  sources  and method  of
financing, the willingness and  ability  to payl   investigate the working
relationships and division of labor between the health care workers at the
township and the village levols;  and   investigate the method and level of
payment, the incentives and disincentives. (See also Annex 11).
The Department of Medical Administration (DONA) of HOPH wouldt (i) provide
leadership to the implementation of the Financing and Payment Studies, contralize
planning, coordinate provincial activities and supervise project execution; (ii)
organize and coordinate local and foreign consultants to discuss project
planning, coordinate local and foreign technical assistance and interprovincis1



Annex I11
Page 6 of 8
training activitiesl and (iii) coordinate the different departments within HOPE
and the different ministries within the contral goveranent in order to assure
support for theme studies from the policy perspective.
III. Activities
1.    Situation analysis and design of experiment - January to December 1993
1.1   organize expert panel and working group from MOPE
1.2   analyze factors related to economy, geography, population, culture
and health status to determine the study areas and control areas
1.3   design plan of study
2.    implementation and montoring of study - January 1994 to Dcoember 1996
2.1   participate  in the study by providing  leadership  and central
guidance
2.2   develop and utilize the data base system
2.2   supervise and monitor progress of study
2.4   conduct a mid-term review
3.    evaluate implementation and draw policy conclusions - January 1997 to
December 1998
3.1   evaluate the financing sources and methods, and the methods and
levels of payment
3.2   evaluate the organization and the quality of rural health care
services
3.3   draw final conclusions and make policy reco onedat-ions



- 83 -
Annex 11
Page 7 of 8
IV. Estimated Cost (in 1,000 Yuan)
Expenditure                                 Total Cost (1,000 Yuan)
Technical Assistance
Local                                            123.1
Foreign                                  -      600.0
Training
Foreign                                          137.8
Study and Research                                 398 5
Equipment                                           60 0
TOTAL                                             1319.4
C. MOPH/ Foreian Loan Office
I. Problem Statement for Project Implementation Supervision
DOE and DOHA in HOPd ar- line departments and are responsible for the
technical supervision of the project. The Foreign Loan Office (nLO) is a staff
department in HOPE and vill supervise the non-technical aspects to ensure that
project impl eme ntation proceeds according to plans especially as it relates to
project financing, disbursement and procurement matters. Its role becomes more
important in this project as this is the first time that the six selected
provinces participate in a World Bank project and therefore lack experience and
require assistance in supervision and monitoring.
II. Objectives
nLO would monitor project implementation plans in order to make sure thatt
* the agreed on targets are not changed;
* the agreed on activities are efficiently and effectively implemented and
modifications are fully justified;
* the procurement of civil works and equipment and of serviess takes place
according to agreed procedures and on schedule;
* counterpart funds are timely available



- 84 -
An      11
Page 8 of 8
III. Activities
1.    Project Supervision vlll take place every November of tho six years of
project implementation. It vill include visits to three provinces and an
annual meating for all six provinces to take stock of implementation
progress and to determine the activities for the coming year.
2.    Financial Suporvisiont In May of every project year, no and HOF vll
examine the credit utilization and disbursement progress and help the
provinces prepare the stat ement of accounts for the preceding year.
3.    Civil Works and Equipment Procurement Supervision: In January of every
project year, there vill be an xamzination of the quality, design and
bidding procedures of all civil vorks, including those in progress and
those completed. The installation and operation of equipment purchased
and the procedure for LCB viii be exmined. The plans for civil vorks
and equipment procurement for the same year vill be determined.
4.    Kid-term evaluation vlll be undertaken vith SPC and HOF at the beginning
of 1995.
5.    Final evaluation vill be conducted at the beginning of 1999 vith  SPC and
HOF and vith the participating MOPH departments.
IV. Estimated Cost (in 1,000 Yuan)
Expenditure                                 Total Cost (1,000 Yuan)
Technical Assistance
Local                                            120.0
Training
Local                                             97.9
Foreign                                           56 4
Equipment                                           30 0
Operational Cost                                   500.0
TOTAL                                              804.3



Rural Health Workers Develop-ent Prolect
Interprovincial Activities
IPA                                   OJUCTIw                       3 a On  Ilux   STAT          no DATE           TOTAL
_ff_   /I lT    DATE                       (in 51000)
"ownh!    1IAMIN3                Istabllehimg & lprowlag the planning                                                          4 230
etwork and ope ration mecbhaoli
1. St Ltat        M.  Plan                                                                        4-Jan-93      2-Sep-98        2,143
Traliln  Pleannre            to learn plaoulg policy and methods             NDH             3-Feb-93      4-Apr-98        1217
Moitoring L Etvalusting       to &soess the proc-es and the lpact                              3-Jan-94      2-Sep-96          I9S
2. Planning Iesercb              to Identify planming L training *eeds                           18-Jan-93    19-Sep-97         2,050
Job Analysjo                  to :Liv  task descriptions for bheltb staff                     16-Jan-93    16-Aug-93           220
Iqirovlg Data Bass           to Irov  data  maoagm_nt                                         4-Feb-94    20-Nov-9S           366
Sitatioo StudiLes             to assess an  evaluate the performance                           6-Jun-94    19-Sep-97           524               X
TR-AIMIG HCALTJ WOKES            Eatablishing Training network, developing                        l-Jan-93      4-Nov-98      139,613
curriculim and conducting training at the
various lovell
1. D-vejoO Job Descrtriot        to provide coms language for planning,           Shanrl         16-Jan-93    16-Jul-93           230
trainiog * d auprvoion
2. Curralmcl  Develosment        to litroduce teaching m_tbods an m_terials         obel/        16-Aug-93    31-Dec-97          ,S51
m_tching witb the noeds                          Guiubou
Study Tours                   to for teacbers to learn training progrem        DMW            16-Aug-93    1S-Sep-93           132
design, _moitorlng and evaluation
Teachilg lofom Worksbop    to initiate teaching refom with teachers             ebbl         IS-Dec-93    19-Dec-94           643
involvesent
Materials Dove. Workshop    to introduce the mthodology of toacblhg            Cuisbou        14-Feb-94    21-Oct-96           903
m_terial dvelo_pm*t
Materials limproewmeet        to transfor technology to improv  m_terials   Anhui             27-Feb-95      5-May-97          422
Trainlig Prog. Evoluatilo    to strengthn evaluative capaclty to easure    Boman               6-Jul-94    20-Jul-94           141
the success of training refon
Teacileg lvaluat. Systm        to ostabliab a scientific and effective          Hebei           3-Aug-94    24-Sep-97           36               u :J
evalution system wbicb can prowide valid                                                                         ga 
and reliable feeback on training effects                                                                        UQ n
1-~



3. Final Tra l welsocie          to e mmise all the doeei. dewelopent,            NDM             23 Sep-98    4-Ue0v93               17
testitg a*d 1lmm_ttaz  m  ct twitle  wilc
bave occurred
Rare= I t^FWSEStW               le      m irow t netitutional m*a   _eat capacity                 I-Jan-93   24-Sep-98           17.172
1.                 04d Mt C   .                                                                   17-Feb-93   26-bec-96            1,138
Hacg. systo  _Drelopn_t    to t row  the mmea emat of *ealth Mare  rm                           17-feb-93   14-Feb-9S              381
- Job Aielyis Mancers         t  idetstity the reepseibllity of mcager.                        17-Feb-93   17-Jun-93              104
- Owerse-e Utudy              to Iea  verie appro ache to * perWIcle                         19-Jel-93   14-Feb-95              201
Tralning JNagerc              to l-rn   m _ yc of menag_mat                    0eSm c          17-Mar-95   26-Dec-98              271
- l-ctrnctiena 1esi$%         to detfi  m*eeerial Instructlo                   0man            174-mr-95   23-Mar-95               11
- Curriculum DewopIent    to defie  tr aIcig coteut for *maage- r                              244-Mr-95   30-Mar-95               36
sigcT WAn      _~ Ti mproing project * gmm_  t cpelty                                              1-Jea-93    4-Dec-93             4201
1. Tralsime  r        t          to lear  the technology for  uperwvietl                           1--eb-93   29-Jun-96              aSS
2. duisltrative Actlvltle     to supervie project MA  condut rellincg           M4E 4-Jan-93   26-Sep-90                         3,20S
plea inwolveat                                                                                                   co
3. Final  Celetio                to evaluate 1Vi_m  tatieon Me  Lpact, and         MO              4-fow-96    4-Dec-96               104
to Write cpletie r opert
TOTAL COST                                                                                                                        185.815
Prow.: *rovwi 1ee
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



- 87 -
CHINA                              Annex 1.
Page 3 of 3
Rural Healh Workers Development Project
Summary of Inter-provincial Acifftos
Inter-provinciiEActiMtv        m                   U       . m         m
EALTH MANPOWER PLANNING
of Person/days                  2117   1923   1923   2793   2319   1954  13029
Semirrs,Workshops                1180    900    900   1530   1365    420   6295
Overseas Study Tours              150    150    150    210    210    120    990
Job Description                  300    300    300    300    300    700   2200
Improve DataBases                 77      63      63    123       84      84    494
Improve Projections              200    300    300    150    150    420   1520
Annual Conferences                210    210    210    480    210    210   1520
-,EALTH MANPOWER TRAINING
# of Person/days                  2499   2365   2365   2320   2398   1770  13717
Seminar-Teaching Reform           175    350    350    350    350    350   1925
Teaching Materials                840    900    900    840    870    420   4770
Education Evaluation             1064    665    665    650    698    520   4262
Overseas Training                420    450    450    480    480    480   2760
-'ANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
#ot PersorVdays                    320    510    910    585    550    880   3755
Overseas hdy Tours                90      90      90    240    240    720   1470
Annual Conferences                160    210    340    275    240         90   1315
Project Evaluation                70    210    480        70      70      70    970
ROJECT MANAGEMENT
do Person/days                  1118   1304   1486    644    1059   1304   6915
ManagementVTraining Mattial        14      14     16      14      15      14      87
Workshops/Seminars                298    240    270       30    294    630   1762
Overseas Study Tours              240    360    380       90    240    300   1590
Annual Conferences                210    210    210    210    210    210   1250
Project Evaluation               356    480    630    300    300    150   2216
INTER-PROVINCIAL TOTALS
# of Personrdays
Par tcipants                     6054   6102   68    6342   OM          59     37520



CHNA
Rwa HeNlh Wodm D.wbphn0 Projct
Pmjsc Ried Tr*** - Eoi by Yeaw Nd Type of Tnnkg
PROVINCE        Trnnln            1993           1994            1995           1996            Total
Type          No. Pesn.w  No. Pes.mlIhs  No. Pen.mlls  No. Pers.mfs  No. Pers.mths
Anhui     kh-coy                 2B1    130.5                                                  261    130.5
Ov ea: Shoe-Wm                         6      6.0                                     6      6.0
O0ee: Lmeg-um                           2     24.0                                     2     24.0
Overseas: SLd Toue      3       3.0     5      5.0                                     8      8.0
Ftw       khco_                  153     76.5                                                  153     76.5
Overea: ShorWm
Oveveas.: L m"M                                         2     24.0                     2     24.0
Overseas: Shxd Tour     4       4.0     8      8.0                                    12     12.0
GuWhou    h y                    120     64.5    65      32.5    15      15.0                  209    112.0
Oveeea: Sho,nt-m        2       2.0     4       4.0                                    6      6.0
Oveem: Lmigbm                                           1     12.0                     1     12.0
Overseas: Sludy Tour
Hebel       k-co y               210      105                                                  210    105.0
Ovr0a: Shortnnrm                                       12     12.0                    12     12.0
Overseas: Lorg-em                                       1     12.0                     1     12.0
Overseas: Sudy Toer     3       3.0     5      5.0                                     8      8.0
Hnnm   khAby                     129     64.5                                                  129     64.5
Ovene: Shofean
Ovrea: Lang-Gem                                         1     12.0                     1     12.0
Ose: Sudy Tour           3      3.0     5       5.0                                    8      8.0
Shaud    kcnt                    471    235.5                                                  471    235.5
Oveeas: Short-tem
Overseas: Lan-ei         1     12.0                                                    1     12.0
Overseas: Study Tour    3       3.0     4      4.0                                     7      7.0
TOTAL                           1372    706.5   104      93.5    32        7 _1508    887.0



CNINA
tural Health Workers Oevelo Fent
Summery Accowits by Year
Totals Including Contingu fies                            Totaels Including Contingencies
Yuan                                                       USS             -
93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97   97/96  96/99  Total         93/94   94/95  95/96   96/97  97/96  96/99  Total
............ ........................ ..._ ..... _._.......................................b....m. ...................... _ ....
1. IWSTHWET COSTS
. . .  ... . . . . .
A. Civil Works
1. Professional Fee            12.9    5.6    o.s    0.0    0.0    0.0   19.3            2.3    1.0    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.4
2. Conatructionc               31.9  130.3   49.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  211.7            5.6   22.7    6.6    0.0    0.0    0.0   36.9
Sub-Total                         4.9  136.1   50.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  230.9             7.6   23.7    s.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   40.2
B. Equipmnt
1. Tran.port/Inatall Fee        1.0    1.7    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.3            0.2    0.3    0.1       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.6
2. Equipmnt Cost               53.1   93.0   35.0    0.6    0.0    0.0  161.7            9.2   16.2    6.1       0.1    0.0    0.0   31.7
Sub-Total                         54.1   94.7   35.7    0.6    0.0    0.0  185.1            9.4   16.5    6.2    0.1    0.0    0.0   32.2
C. Vehicles                        8.6    7.5    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0   16.9             1.5    1.3    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.9
0. Furniture                       6.6   12.4    5.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   24.8             1.2    2.2    1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.3                  C0
E. Training
1. Training foreign             5.6    6.5    2.9    1.9    0.7    0.0   17.7            1.0    1.1    0.5    0.3    0.1    0.0    3.1
2. Training Loct                3.3   "4.9   67.0  118.7  118.3  106.7  4?7.9            0.6    7.6   15.2   20.7   10.6   18.6   83.4
Sib-Totat                          6.9   51.4   69.9  120.6  119.1  106.7  496.6             1.6    8.9  ' 15.7   21.0   20.7   16.6   66.5
F. Studies   Re seach             12.3    6.3    7.4    7.1    6.4    4.1   45.7            2.1    1.5    1.3    1.2    1.1    0.7    6.0
6. Technical Aaaistwnc
1. TA Forein                    5.4    4.2    4.6    3.7    3.3    2.2   23.4            0.9    0.7    0.8    0.6    0.6    0.4    4.1
2. TA Local                      1.3    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.0    1.0    7.5           0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.3
Sub-Total                          6.7    5.6    6.0    5.1    4.3    3.1   30.8             1.2    1.0    1.0    0.9    0.8    0.5    5.4
Tota  INVESTNENT COSTS            142.1  316.0  195.6  133.5  129.8  114.0  1030.6          24.8   55.0   34.1   23.3   22.6   19.9  179.6
11. RECURRET COSTS
A. Naintemws
1. Naintemmce of Suilding       0.1    0.7    0.8    0.7    1.5    1.4    5.2            0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.2    0.9
2. Naintaunce of Equi  nt       0.4    1.3    1.8    1.8    1.4    1.0    7.7            0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2    1.3
3. Nainteiwice of Vehicles       0.2    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.2    1.6            0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.3
SUb-Totst                           0.6    2.3    3.0    2.8    3.3    2.6   14.7           0.1    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.4    2.6
e. operting Cost                   4.4    3.3    3.6    3.7    3.9    3.6   22.6            0.8    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.6    3.9            oC 
Totat RECtECUET COSTS              5.1    s.7    6.S    6.6    7.2    6.2   37.2            0.9    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.1    6.S
_  us=s;sam  Un nannssuassn aws.fl=uas
Total PIOJECT COSTS               147.2  321.6  202.1  140.0  136.9  120.2  1066.1         25.6   56.0   35.2   24.4   23.9   20.9  186.1
Valuy 1000.0  3 3  60                                         ------------------ ---  -
Values Seated bV 10000QO 0 3/8/19"  0 10



CUIMA
lural Nesith Workers Dewelow nt
Stmry Accosmt by Project Cmq2onent
Yuun
Physical         Price
Cont I nWnc i es  Contingencies
MNpower Nuyoebr Nwrqower  Project  Centrel                    --------------------------------
Plaming  Training   weat   Naaget  Cqiont    Total               X    Amamt        X  A.uit
I. IUWSTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Mwrks
1. Professional Feas                  0.0     18.2        0.1      0.0       0.0      18.3       0.2       0.0    5.1        0.9
2. Constructions                      0.1    159.6      19.6        0.0       0.0    179.3       8.0      14.3   10.0       18.0
Sub-total                             0.1    177.8       19.7       0.0       0.0    197.6       7.3      14.4    9.6       18.9
B. Equipmnt
1. Trnqtort/Inctall Fee               0.0       1.4       1.6       0.0      0.0       3.1       0.1       0.0    8.4        0.3
2. Equipmen t Cost                    1.8      74.3      79.6       0.0       0.3    156.1       8.0      12.5    8.5       13.2
Suh-total                             1.9      75.8      81.2       0.0       0.3     159.1      7.8      12.5    8.5       13.5
C. Vehicles                            0.0      14.1       0.0       0.0       0.0      14.1     15.0       2.1    5.0        0.7
D. Furniture                           0.1      16.9       4.1       0.0       0.0      21.1      8.0       1.7    9.6        2.0
E. Training
1. Training Foreign                   2.7       6.8       2.9       2.8      1.4      16.6       0.0       0.0    6.3        1.0
2. Training Local                     1.3    382.1        3.6       0.7      0.1    387.8        0.0       0.0   23.5       91.1
Sub-total                             4.0    389.0       6.5       3.5        1.S    404.5       0.0       0.0   22.8       92.2
F. Studie  B Research                  7.0      13.3     15.8       2.8       1.4      40.3       0.0       0.0   13.3        5.4
G. Technical Aseistance
1. TA Foreign                         4.6       8.3       4.8      2.3       1.3      21.3       0.0       0.0    9.6        2.1
2. TA Local                           1.6       3.2       0.8       0.5       0.3       6.4      0.0       0.0   16.6        1.1
Sub-total                             6.2      11.5       5.7       2.8       1.6     27.7       0.0       0.0    11.3       3.1
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                19.3    649.3    133.1         9.0      4.8    864.4        3.5      30.6   15.7    135.8
11. RECUMRENT COSTS
A. Maintenance
1  Maintenance of Building            0.0       3.7      0.1       0.0        0.0      3.9       8.0       0.3   26.6        1.0
2. MaIntenamce of Equip=mnt           0.1       3.3       2.7       0.0       0.0      6.1       5.9       0.4   20.0        1.2
3. Maintenace of Vehicles             0.0       1.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.4      8.0       0.1   19.4        0.3
Stb-total                             0.1       8.4       2.9       0.0      0.0       11.4      6.9       0.8   22.1        2.5
B. Operating Cost                      2.4       4.2       2.2      9.8        0.5     19.1       0.0       0.0   18.1        3.5
Total RECPURENT COSTS                  2.5      12.6      5.1       9.8       0.5      30.5       2.6       0.8   19.6        6.0                     J
JQ r
Total BASELINE COSTS                  21.8    710.9    138.1        18.8      5.3    894.9        3.5      31.4   15.8    141.8                      x
Physical Contingencies               0.1      22.9      8.4       0.0       0.0      31.4                                                          I-.
Price Contingencies                  2.4    125.4       11.1      2.8       0.1    141.8        1.9       2.7                                   o is
Total PRhJECT COSTS                   24.4    859.1    157.6       21.6       5.4    1068.1       3.2      34.1   13.3    141.8
.s... wsss       .....                                        ....sss.....ss.u.assss sssasss s ssssssssssss=fl=fl=---
Taxes                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                    10.8    118.5       32.0       6.8      3.5    171.5        3.5       5.9
V.l.e. Scaled by 1000000.0... .......................-----------------.------..-..3-.-----8-/1993.---..---.-.....----8:08--.........
Values Sceled by 1000000.0 3/84 1993 8:o8



CUINA
Rural NeIth workers Detelopuant
Projects Comonmnts by Yerw
Totals Incltuding Contingwcies                                 Totalt Including Contingqncies
Yuttnus
-------..-...-..-------...   --------------------------------  ---------------------------------------------------------.. .
93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   96/99   Totat        93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/96   96/99   Total
nunuun. _...........sfnssaBf.s.ns.s.sn_ ;                     .nnulf.s............ _..... _ ........ .  ----
A. Manmper Plaming                     7.8      5.9     3.6     2.7      1.0     2.5    24.4         1.4     1.0     0.6      0.5     0.3     0.4      4.2
B. Nayower Training                   63.3   248.4   176.6   127.9   128.0   112.7   859.1          11.0    43.3    31.1    22.3    22.3    19.6   149.7
C. ManxOwer mbmau"Nt                  65.7   63.2    16.5       6.2     4.6      1.4   157.6        11.5    11.0     2.9      1.1     0.8     0.3    27.5
0. Project Nw git                      4.9      4.0     3.3     3.3      2.6     3.4    21.6         0.9     0.7     0.6      0.6     0.5     0.6      3.8
E. Central Coqpont                     5.4      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     5.4         0.9     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.9
Total PROJECTS CooTS                  147.2  321.6  202.1   140.0   136.9   120.2  1068.1            25.6    56.0    35.2    24.4    23.9    20.9   186.1
Walums Sceled bV 1000000.0 3/8/1995  8:14
0 0:
.1
. X
IA



- 92 -
Annex 1S
Rural Health Worker. Develovment Proiect
Proiect Counterpart Funds
(US$ million)
PROVINCE        PREFECTURE        COUNTY               TOTAL
Amount     S      Amount   2       Amount    S        Amount   2
Anhui      0.69        6.9   2.01      20.0     7.35      73.1    10.05    100
Fujian     0.69        5.3   3.59      27.5     8.78      67.2    13.06    100
Guizhou    0.44        3.6   2.53      20.6     9.31      75.8   12.28    100
Hebei      0.73        5.7   2.56      19.9     9.58      74.4    12.87    100
Henan       1.29       9.0   3.41      24.0     9.53      67.0   14.23    100
Shanxi     0.53        4.0   2.19      16.6    10.49      79.4   13.21    100
Central                                     _                      0.10    100
TOTAL       4.3        5.7   16.3      21.5    55.1       72.8   75.7       100



- 93-                              Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
CRA
Rural Health Workers Develorment Proic=t
HOPE Administrative Procedures Raiardina Civil Works
1.    Plannn.  Tho civil works plan of each province's project institutions
(including location, area, purpose of CW and cost estimate) - approved by the
State Planning Coiission and confirmed during Project Appraisal - would become
the basis for the CW component of the Project.  Each province will submit to
MOPK/FLO a sumary sheet of the functional space for each project institution
identifying in square meters the areas of the existing facilities to be utilized
and the proposed CW to be carried out under the project. The summary sheet will
state the current enrollment capacity of each institution and will indicate the
capacity that the institution will reach upon completion of the CW program. The
CW design ezperts group of MOPE vill visit selected sites of major CW to inspect
existing conditions and to advise the local project office on technical matters
to be taken into consideration during the design of the CW.
2.    Dosi .    The provincial Public Health Bureau is responsible for the
selection of the appropriate architectural design unit to conduct the design work
(including site survey, conceptual design for site developmont and building
layout, preliminary drawings, working dravings and the periodic supervision
during construction) for civil vorks at prefectural level and above. For each
construction estimated during the design stage to cost over US$300,000, the
conceptual design should be approved first by the CW design experts group of MOPH
before developing preliminary drawings  and working dravings.  County Public
Health Offices under the guidance of tho provincial Public Health Bureau will
organize the design work for the CW at county level and below. The county Public
Health Offices vill give assurances to the provincial Public Health Bureau that
the design of the civil works comply with the sumary shoot of functional areas
approved by MOPI/FLO.
3.    Bid Invitaton. The Provincial Public Health Bureau selects the building
contractor for CW at prefectural level and above in accordance vith Local
Competitivo Bidding (LCB) procedures. For contracts in excess of US$300,000, the
bid evaluation report should firat be submitted to the Foreign Loan Office (FLO)
of HOPE for concurrence before the bid award. For CW at county level and bolow,
the appropriate contractor vill bo selected under the guidance of the Provincial
Public Health bureau following local procedures of selection of the lowest
evaluated bidder among the invited local contractors and community groups.
4.    Construction Supervision. For civil works at profectureal level and above,
the Provincial Public Health Bureau approvoe the torms of referonce (TOR) for
construction supervision and appoints the site supervisor. For each construction
project estimated to cost over US$300,000, the terms of references for
construction supervisor and the C.V. of the selected site supervisor should be
submitted to FLO of MOP for record and reference. For CW at county level and
below, the county Public Health office selects and appoints the site supervisor
under the guidance of the Provincial Public Health Bureau.
5.    Miscellaneous. MOPS sends its civil vorks experts to provinces to assis:



Aanne 16
Page 2 of 2
ln site surveys before the co_encoemnt of design work. The TOX of the MOPI
Design ExpArt Group have been rcileowd by the World Dank Appraisal Mission and
there vas no objection. Did invitation for civil vorks estimated to cost over
US$300,000 vould follow LCD procedures acceptable to the association and vould
use the standardized bidding document agreed between the Ministry of Finance and
the World Bank.



Rural secitb vorkARa aM.eJ.o.set Prolect
Project Organiaation Chart
|?reriDcid  Project looting Group I......................................................
Provisnil DOM                                       .     ; .
be@, v           ,  iU                 iL                  m               >le rvie 0                  Dart
Pre] ct   Pl_iw      Uf *ir            srci |            | inictratioI                                    i
Of      '          ,~                  .,.1               Dwt.'Itl1                                                         ~             et 
"                                      |?~~~~~~~~~~~1rd ecteral(City) proj ct L^   ........... .. ........................                  a.....
|                                            l?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r f cture (Cit) ;FoN ................................
*1-] ct   P 1   {' Xer t^ry D?t l   l' bncFtio  D pt   |   iStratieel           z *
t_we.  D?t.                        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai Dat                                      IIDowt.ai
8~ ~ ~ ~~~~--------                                ------------------         1-----------------------------------------|-----
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rojc  Ldf t  gru
Pr -ovinc    l    i Child                                           iSclto
Adminirooation
IProfefcPoi_l Quid&=
:1>
a  a
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;t a 
*  a
*  P
a                                                                                                       a           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a~~                                                                                                            ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a 



- 96 -
Annex 17
Page 2 of 2
Rural Health Worker. DeveloDment Proiect
Proiect Imolementation Office
A Sample of a Project Implementation Office
|Project Impl ems ntation Office
I ~Direcltor
aon Equipx nt 
Group on Civil Works
Task Mn-ager   Accountent Procurement   Building         Computer   Tranolator
Specialist   Specialist  Statistician
Total Full-Time Staff                           1
Director                                        1
Task Manager                                    1
Account ant                                     1
Procuremnt Specialist                           1
Building Specialist 
Computer Statistician                           1
Translator                                      1



-97 -
Anne  18
CHI
Rural Health Workers Devolooment Pro1ect
Schodule of Diaburoments
AMOUNT (USS million)        Disburs emnt Profile (S)
Year   Semester       Absolute   Cumulativo           Project      China'
1994    1              12.0          12.0              11            3
2               4.2          16.2              15           14
1995    1               7.6          23.8              22           38
2              14.5          38.3              35           50
1996    1              15.6          53.9              49           66
2              12.5          66.4              60           70
iJ97    1              12.5          78.9              72           78
2               9.0          87.9              80           86
2I9     1               7.8          95.7              87           86
2               6.5         102.2              93           94
99l~j   1             3.5         105.7              96           94
2               2.2         107.9              98           96
2000    1               2.1         110.0             100           98
2                                                          100
Note:
a. Standard Disbursement Profile for human resources sector projoct in China.
b. Initial Deposit in Special Account and Retroactive Financing.



- 98 -
Annex 19
Page 1 of 3
CILMk
Rural Health Worker. DeveloDment Proiect
Performanc Plan - Outcome Measures
1. Indicators for Vllmas Health Staff  -
1 .1      Percentage of villages vith a village doctor and a health station
1.2       Percentage of villages vith two village doctors, one of whom is
female
1.3       Percentage of villages with at least one female village doctor
trained and equipped to deliver basic family planning. MCH and
obstetric care
1.4       Village doctors vith training reaching the standard of country
health schools and are eligible for a "village doctor" certificate
1.5       Villages with the ability to organize basic on-site first-aid
activities
2.1 Indicators for TOuns h ablth Staff and Facilities
2.1.1     Health care personnel/1.000 total population ratio
2.1.2     In-service training for townchip and village health care staff
2.1.3     Assistant doctors, public health doctors, MCH doctors and
midwives,after graduation from secondary medical schools, returning
to work in township health facilities
2.1.4     Township health facilities staffed with secondary medical school
graduates or above
2.1.5     Township hospitals with the capability to conduct the three coon
laboratory examinations (routine blood, urine and stool tests)
2.2 Indicators for CetaLZT ,jis He-lth Staff and Facilities
2.2.1     Central township hospitals staffed by laboratory tochnicians.
pharmacists, radiographers. and dentists who have received formal
professional training
2.2.2     Central township hospitals with the capability to perform
laparotomy
2.2.3     Central township hospitals vith the capability to manage acute
emergencies including cross-matching blood for transfusion



- 99 -
Ame 19
Page 2 of 3
3. Indicators for Health Status and Preventive Car-
3.1        "New method delivery" at village level
3.2        Systematic maternity care
3.3        "Pour basic immunizations" rate (at county level at the beginning
of the projoct and at township level at the *nd)
3.4        "Childhood preventive health care" coverage rate
3.5       Township and village secondary school children with health
education conducted by health care personnel
3.6        "No smoking" in all health care facilities
4. Indicators for mortality and morbidity
4.1       Maternal mortality ratio per 100,000 live births
4.2        Infant mortality rate/1000 live births



CHINA
BRural Uelth Vo?kore Dgwelo innt Prolet
Performance Flon: Outcome Heasures
Oateem_  lndicatero                        LAbl             Fuji"          Cuigbo.           Nobe Il...                        Shemt
*     D         a                      END a           UID        a      EC I              END
1.1        **.                              94         96  94    100         41     90        94   100         94    lW0        69    I00
1.2  *1 1_l,    mI e f     .D.              34    60        *4      a        27     70       20    95         45      to        *0    9g
1.3  1 f_ le *.D. W/Ft, f.                  10    35        Ie     70        24     65        10    40        30      65        23      s0
1.4  V.D. vicertiflcatc                     34    75        29     75        25     75        22    75         25     75        40      75
1.5  *ie -ite first-old                     10    55        12     40        15     S5        10    40         30      60       10      *0
I ~   ~    1 .1.  log
2.1.1  *olth *taff/11,00                   1.5   1.7       2.0    2.4       1.0    1,5       1.5   1.9        1.6    2,0        2.0    2.4
2.1.2  la--ervice traalalg                  30    *I         12    60        15    U5         40    85         25      75        50     so
2.1.3  2adary mad.ech. returnees            20    G0        40      s0       35     t0        20    65         30      60        30     70
2.1.4  Staff  120dary m"d.ch.              10    40        55    s0         is    s0         25    50         29      50        is     50
2.1.5. 3 lab. test capability               30    90        61    100        20     90        40   100         a5    100         90    100                    I
2.2  Ceatral T _bla                                                                                                                                           C
2.2.1 Fornally trained staff                50    S0        57      aS       55    aS         54    62         50      s0        51     60
2.2.2 LAperotmy capability                  30    S0        45      OS       25     *5        30    S0         s0    100 W2             so
2.2.3 Acute morgenaciee                     40    60         10     60       20     60         5    50         40      40        23     40
3. fseith status 4 Ire. Care
3.1  law mstbod del. W. level               39    95         40     95       65     90        60    90         25      95        40      95
3.2  Syet. mterlqty care                    35    65         45     65       42     45        40    65         45      65        40     45
3.3  4 bsic tImm. rate                      65    a5         78     *5       60     65        65    a5         as      65        65     65
3.4  C. preventive bealth care              13    as         37     65       45     45        71    65         3S      70       4*       45
3.5  Childre  vIhbeaitb educcatio           20    60         54     6O       35     64        S0    60         S0      so        70      S0
3.4  o  msddLkg In facilitie                30    90          0     65        5      30       10    40          5      45        15      so
4.  Mortality &f Nebidit                                                                                                                          Id
4.1  Ust. mortalty/100,000 L.0,           104    46         49     50      273    140        93    50        I15      9S       222    110
*     bhgianig of the project,    Ms end of the project,             T.D.: village doctor
0 -D



RURAI. IHIEATII WVRKERS DEVE1b,A 4ENT P1'11 UIW 
SUPERVISION PLAN
I mif... d.
Wbere Superioa Would                                                                                         No sat  No salS?ll
Likely Take Place:    Approximala Dome   laecvl (b4osha)    Nusbeer of                                    Perom_        Wece
Aclivisa lo be Superviaed                   Headquae  (H) Field (F) of 1i Miami           -kneen Miasioe       Meamoc               Skill Rcqired        Required     Required
Cijvi Woik
Review ot "mph  ak  Flaw fom  all types of civil woeks             F aWl H                Ha Nafled           as rquied         as rquaed            AttAihect             I                I
Review of co_atu p_c to coauc awards (Ace                             H                 Idi quair 1994        as eqsied         *a squid              Arebilct              1               2
exceedag $300.000 only)
Inapcum ocfworeklsducou _nwouaadpo oi-award                                               m-1994                 12                3                 Arciulect             I               6
review of coUlt (samim)                                                                                                                                                             Subil 9
Review Of eququWAd  s aidW aecieCados                              P awl H                Has" Naed            a rquird       3 (for 3 phaes)    Techai&al Sjeciaist        1               3
Prior  view of  idWdi  D     Dowadaboek. amucmcm of                F and H                Ha  aled             as required       s required      Technical Specialisi       I               I3
IFB (dhs excediag 530.001 voly)
Pfior award revie  of bid evaudic  epma r_ he  aca                    H                   Euly 1994            as required      mAreq            Tehical SieciaIh          1               2
zceerdi 5300.000 cub oily                                                                                                                                           S-dtl I
Tecbhical Asiawce
Review of TORm. qualVecadam  eaquWd ai  oidisoc of                  H or F                HU Saed             ma reuired        ma reqird         T.A. cpenicace            I 
68*MlYIMe; maW aavm review. feaw  ia andly  e
awl woikakmpa
Capaiv of "oigs.  nab. ma by poliyra&em.                              F                    mid-1994                12                3           Mtaspaawer Piame           I
.                                                                                                                                              Policy Aualyd
Trsaisa Co.wumm of Pwieta
lolaamayuadeaciplunmeacher raining. clinical keaciag;           F                    mid-1994               2I                 I               jid AnalyS            2 
ueeaeovuecwia dima minwl evausagius -b                                                                                                          lAWlsim5a Uicaigamer
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
U_Ver~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.W 11 1_ d PeeidcI
Caci. sw..            uarev..aily -t aaL                              P- 1a994                                    12                              (1_a  Ic.hrpbe 
.6ecAl   J.. Pd llicy weMi. s
*  a..5.aa. .as~ .aa.I * aU..~a: .1.                                                                           l as  lan.... usr r'>



Wlhc. Supw.ua.. W                                                                                      N.       N. .. %-4
I Ad Ta&. hree          Am      tiA frr ti E          )    tukAu .E IMS                                           W* r*6&    X4
Aiaidiga to be SUpeaYmd                 inskadqwmIeaql lieUMF) efldfMums.           DIWwa,. mMum        %a.m                 &.U Slcqu.cj      Neqgu.d    mcq**I.
Peiwhw .6 d   aiw"                . H_i f.                     N a" F        *      _mu   saw                 l} 
_bc. .__   w;m mu  _a __1 _i .awlw
6*c"Goig_m                    O SO         E_ a
bdsA
*avwdi _<aamcaedpia.  SEE                                         H        U        34WX_  aF  _ s          13                                AI ae        _ E _ I 2
e _odwift 6mg                                                                                                                          Sa_
Wmna  n ma.-   um  maPb-paleaa                                   F                    aTsci                SISpN& "fenpaim                                       I
.q m.lf o me"                                                                                                                         To-"es  laea.pd
mi maui,..
Me sa  m imh:                                                  F                  .advI9                 e                I             Tea Ma_                * ea  4
Hma  Spaiei                              0
a-N-s mi -          mInha   .. Tatd                                                                                                    e _    S  j
I~~~~kdaauiq                              N - F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as aqimd            aa equmd         a  qnmi.ad      Pwagece eapaueac.    as eapucud     Toe be
eaciad4. m
Sub6_ 19
a"wec a  
paaakor     o
pIne boAe mO05
0 Cl



- 103 -                         Annex 21
Rural Health Workers Devoloi Mnt Protect
Selected Doceunts Available in the Prolict File
A. Proiet Pronosals
A-1.  Anhui Project Proposal
A-2.  Fujtan Project Proposal
A-3.  Guizhou Projoct Proposal
A-4.  HRbot Project Proposal
A-5. Resan Project Proposal
A-6.  S 1azi Project Proposal
A-7.  Proposal for Central Component
S. Proiect Costa
3-1. Total Project Cost tables
3-2. Detailed Cost Tablos for *iz provinces (Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou,
Hebei, Hanan, and Shazi)
C. Proiect T.Ilmentation Plans
C-l.  Tmelineo Reports for Anhui
C-2.  Timline Reports for Fujtan
C-3.  Timeline Reports for Guixhou
C-4.  Timline Reports for Hebet
C-5.  Timeline Reports for honan
C-6.  Timeline Reports for Sheai
D. Selected PFsors and Resorts Ralated to the Prolect
D-l.  Chinese Health Statistical Digoet, 1990.
D-2.  The Syposius of the First Rural Doctor gducation of China, 1990.






RUSS AN
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                    FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN
/  5  s  ''' a I w)~~~~~~~~~~~/ 
MONGOLIA
>tKYR            ZSAN     
UZB   KISTAN     
S.o    JAPAN
TAJ I K I 4TA N ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jpo                                                                                                                  Z
(    ~AFGHANISTANr                                                                                                                       ;'    -0t                                                                             I
Th  -p            p-pore 30EA
by Toe  W,,d  Bu,k,  tf
-1fu eely o  nc,oe
of ,ecsde,s =nd  s Ic' tneJ_                                                                                                                       4tJj          t                                  f       Jff 
,,t-.o .,e of Tne Woldg-uk
Grcop The denom 'ote'o osued                                                                         Xng-f                                        9          CJnn           S                      _r                 cZ 
svd  ih, boc,cdCes Sc-Y-ou-                                                                                                                '      .kt
ths mop do cot mp-v, on thce                                                                                1
pun of TheWoIddB-o G,oop,
ototot of =nytecc;too, oc n    f  /_
et,dome-ent 0-  h ocetucn 0                                                                                                                                                          nh1
t-_0>   h gzj4-_/r . .............(
_NEPAL                                                  .                                 .                         _(Sbcng,                                                         8
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH WORKERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                 '               PACIf*C
( Sy i* < / yJ) <|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                              PACIFIC
PfROJECT PfROVlNCES fP  a  .<J.  
~~~~~~ Pc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           O~~~~~~~~CCEAN
S       PROVANCE CAPITALS
*       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                             /.)
PROIANCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
cf  ziozrNn e 700 s00 eoo s o i 9 \ VIET N~~zAM                                                                                                   KOG NG, Li c
f)   MIEg O  Fo:    7 0    00    (0    500   arr4;   LAO PEOn  y  Chin  PHILIPPINES
mEM  REP                                 NAN                                                                                             I'|



