Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2539 CHA
(Rural Health Workers Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE PROVINCES OF ANHUI, FUJIAN,
GUIZHOU, HEBEI, HENAN, AND SHANXI
Dated August 25, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2539 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and THE PROVINCES OF ANHUI, FUJIAN, GUIZHOU, HEBEI, HENAN AND SHANXI 
(the Project Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 79,300,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and health practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Provinces shall otherwise agree:
(i)
each Project Province shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
 
(ii)
each Project Province shall make the proceeds of the Credit lent 
to it by the 
Borrower and additional funds from its own resources 
available to health 
institutions and bureaus carrying 
out the Project at the prefecture, county, 
township and village 
levels on the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. the Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) the Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts 
A, B, C and D of the Project, the performance of their respective obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
the Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, 
C and D of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Project 
Provinces of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Project Provinces responsible for carrying out Parts A, B, C and D 
of the Project.
Page  3
(b)
The Project Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association, through the Borrower, as soon as 
available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
Page  4
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Anhui Province:
The People's Government of Anhui Province
85 Changjiang Road, Hefei
Anhui Province
People's Republic of China 230001
For Fujian Province:
The People's Government of Fujian Province
28 Hualin Road, Fuzhou
Fujian Province
People's Republic of China 350003
For Guizhou Province:
The People's Government of Guizhou Province
346 Zhonghua Road,
Guiyang, Guizhou Province
People's Republic of China 550004
For Hebei Province:
The People's Government of Hebei Province
10 Weiming Street, Shijiazhuang
Hebei Province
People's Republic of China 050050
For Henan Province:
The People's Government of Henan Province
10 Weier Road, Zhengzhou
Henan Province
People's Republic of China 450003
For Shanxi Province:
The People's Government of Shanxi Province
101 Dongjie, Taiyuan
Shanxi Province
People's Republic of China 030072
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each Project 
Province may be taken or
executed by Governor or Vice-Governor or such other person or persons as Governor or 
Vice-Governor shall designate in writing, and each Project Province shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
Page  5
ANHUI PROVINCE,
FUJIAN PROVINCE,
GUIZHOU PROVINCE,
HEBEI PROVINCE,
HENAN PROVINCE, AND
SHANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed 
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be 
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to 
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to 
the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works, and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less 
per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $11,700,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the  Association.
2.
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract 
for construction and repair of prefecture, county, township or village health and 
training facilities, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per 
contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three contractors or suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Contracts for proprietary items, subject to the approval of the Association on a 
case-by-case basis, and items required for purposes of achieving equipment 
standardization, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000 for township health facilities, 
Page  6
including Practice Bases, may be procured under force account procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Project Provinces in carrying out Parts A, B, C, and D of 
the Project, and the Borrower in carrying  out Part E of the Project, the Project 
Provinces and the Borrower shall employ  consultants whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each.  However this exemption to prior Association  review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, its 
project implementation office (PIO) with facilities and functions satisfactory to the 
Association, staffed with
qualified personnel in adequate numbers.
2.
Each Project Province shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project in 
accordance with its Performance Plan, including providing, without limitation to the 
reporting requirements of Sections 9.05 and 9.06 of the General Conditions, reports 
based on the progress indicators included in such Performance Plan to MOPH.
3.
Each Project Province shall conduct, by not later than November 30, 1996, a 
Page  7
midterm review of  the progress of carrying out the Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 3
Funding Arrangements
1.
Each Project Province shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to counties and 
prefectures for purposes of carrying out the Project on the terms and conditions 
stated in Section 3.01 (b) (i) and (ii)
of the Development Credit Agreement, provided, however, that the Project Province may  
make the proceeds of the Credit available on more concessional terms if warranted by 
the poverty level of the county or prefecture concerned.
2.
Each Project Province shall ensure that the proceeds of the Credit are made 
available to carry out the Project at the township and village level without 
obligation of repayment by such townships and villages.
3.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement, each 
Project Province, in addition to the proceeds of the Credit it receives, shall provide 
from its own resources,
sufficient funds, satisfactory to the Association, to carry out all activities under 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
4.
The Project Provinces agree that should the funds contributed from its counties' 
and prefectures' resources prove to be insufficient to carry out the activities under 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the Province shall provide any additional funds 
needed to meet any shortfall in funding by such counties and prefectures.
