Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2539 CHA
(Rural Health Workers Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 25, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2539 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by the Provinces 
of Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan and Shanxi (the Project Provinces) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Project Provinces a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the Project Provinces;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Performance Plan" means the plan to achieve specific outcomes to improve 
rural health during implementation of the Project by each Project Province, including 
criteria for monitoring and reporting on progress made in carrying out the Project;
(b)
"MOPH" means the Ministry of Public Health of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and the 
Provinces of  Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan and Shanxi of the Borrower, of even 
date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"PIOs" means the Project Implementation Offices established by each 
Project Province within such Project Province's Bureau of Public Health; "PIO" means 
any one of such PIOs;
(e)
"Practice Bases" means the classrooms and accommodations for faculty and 
students to be established adjacent to or integrated with county and central township 
hospitals;
(f)
"Project Provinces" means the Provinces of Anhui, Fujian, Guizhou, Hebei, 
Henan and Shanxi; "Project Province" means any one of the Project Provinces; and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-nine million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 79,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2003, and ending April 15, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2013 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  4
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, 
health, education and financial 
practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to 
perform all of their 
respective obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, 
shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Project Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to each 
Project Province under separate agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
each Project Province, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Association, including the following:
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding 15 years, including 6 years 
of grace;
(ii)
interest to be paid by each Project Province at the rate of 1.5% 
per annum on all 
outstanding amounts withdrawn for foreign 
expenditures, and at the rate of 3% per 
annum on all 
outstanding amounts withdrawn for local expenditures; and
(iii)
all foreign exchange risks to be paid by each Project Province for 
the portion of 
the proceeds of the Credit such Project 
Province received in foreign exchange.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the Credit made available 
by the Project Provinces to prefectures, counties, townships and villages for purposes 
of carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, shall be made available on terms 
and conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project shall be 
carried out by the Project
Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall employ, until the completion of the Project, 
two full-time project managers under Part E of the Project, one within the Department 
of Education (DOE) and one within the Department of Medical Administration (DOMA) of 
MOPH, who shall be responsible for coordinating project activities and supporting the 
dissemination and replication of the benefits of, and lessons learned from, the 
implementation of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall conduct, by not later than November 30, 1996, a 
midterm review of the progress of carrying out the Project with each of the Project 
Provinces.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall establish by June 30, 1994, and thereafter 
maintain, an Equipment Selection Committee ("ESC") within MOPH, with composition and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ESC to review all proposals for teaching 
equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and shall select such 
equipment for financing under the Project in
accordance with criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
expenditures in respect of Part E of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
(d)
The Borrower shall consolidate and provide to the Association, the audit 
of the records and accounts with respect to Parts A, B, C, and D of the Project 
provided by the Project Provinces to the Borrower on behalf of the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that a Project
Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have 
approved this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding upon 
each Project Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  7
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                     18,100,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(2)   Civil works                7,300,000      25%
(3)   Consultants'              11,800,000      100%
      services, studies
      and overseas
      training
(4)   Local                     42,100,000      70% of local
      training                                  expenditures
                                __________
      TOTAL                     79,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  8
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 7,200,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories 3 and 4 on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen health worker planning 
capability of the Project Provinces and at the national level; (b) to improve the 
training of and to retrain medical teachers, rural health workers and managers; (c) to 
strengthen the management and clinical supervision of rural health workers; (d) to 
improve inter-institutional coordination among health worker training institutions; 
and (e) to upgrade the physical conditions of training institutions at the prefecture 
and county levels and of health service delivery institutions at the township and 
village levels in the Project Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Health Worker Planning
 
1.
Developing provincial health personnel planning capacity by establishing and 
staffing health worker planning units at the provincial, prefecture and county levels 
and by coordinating planning activities common to all Project Provinces.
2.
Training personnel planning staff by carrying out: (i) provincial and 
inter-provincial training workshops in health worker planning; and (ii) overseas 
training and local academic training of key planning personnel.
3.
Improving the planning data base by standardizing and upgrading data collection.
 
4.
Carrying out health worker planning by: (i) analyzing provincial health system 
needs and health sector staffing; (ii) updating and improving staff productivity 
standards and the accuracy of provincial health care demand estimates and supply 
projections; (iii) conducting studies and surveys in support of health worker 
planning; and (iv) preparing and implementing a provincial health sector staffing 
plan.
5.
Establishing a qualitative basis for health worker planning by carrying out a 
job analysis study and by writing job descriptions responsive to local community 
health care needs.
6.
Monitoring and evaluating the carrying out of health worker planning by carrying 
out annual conferences to exchange information and best practices in health worker 
planning, and by reporting and
distributing the results of such conferences within the Project Provinces.
Part B:
Health Worker Training
 
1.
Establishing: (i) provincial training networks linking and coordinating health 
worker training institutions at the provincial, prefecture and county levels; and (ii) 
provincial training plans which will:
(a)
assess existing strengths and weaknesses of training institutions;
 
(b)
establish clinical practice training sites;
Page  9
(c)
establish a system of differentiated levels of training to obtain cost 
savings while improving quality; and 
(d)
establish province-wide teacher development and evaluation capabilities.
 
2.
Training teachers and administrators of health training schools by:
 
(a)
enhancing teacher skills in instructional design and educational goal 
measurements through short-term workshops;
(b)
carrying out national and international study tours; and
 
(c)
conducting research on methods to improve teacher performance, develop 
materials, evaluate  teaching methods and student performance, and in-service training 
for teachers.
3.
Improving health worker skills by: (i) analyzing training needs; (ii) updating 
and improving teaching curricula and teaching methods; (iii) providing in-service and 
pre-service training targeted to meet specific health needs; and (iv) establishing 
performance standards.
4.
Upgrading the physical infrastructure of provincial training centers, secondary 
medical schools and county health schools, constructing Practice Bases and providing 
equipment and educational materials for such schools and Practice Bases.
Part C:
Managing Rural Health Services
 
1.
Developing health service management and supervision systems. 
 
2.
Providing on-the-job training to achieve consistent quality in providing primary 
health care at the village and township levels.
3.
Providing technical assistance, equipment and materials and training to develop  
a financing, compensation and incentive systems at the township and village levels.
4.
Rehabilitating central township hospitals and health centers and provision of 
equipment to improve central township hospitals, township health centers and village 
health stations.
Part D:
Provincial Project Management Training
 
Developing provincial project management skills by providing local and overseas 
training of PIO staff and local training of staff managing Project activities at the 
prefecture and county levels.
Part E:
Central Management
 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOPH, specifically its Department of 
Education (DOE) and the Department of Medical Administration (DOMA), by providing 
training, equipment, materials and supplies, and technical assistance.
*           *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
Page  10
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
(six million dollars) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
