Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4266-BR
REP3RT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USM155.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
March 26, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /a
US$1.00            -        CZ$13.80 (February 28, 1986)
CZ$1.00            =        US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil    =    January 1 to December 31
Project                  =    January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ASTER     -  Associacao do Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural (Territorio)
(Agency for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (Territory)
EMATER    -  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
EMBRAPA   -  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Corporation for Agricultural Research)
EMBRATER  -  Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
POA       -  Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
PRONAPA   -  Programa Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(National Program for Agricultural Research)
SIBRATER  -  Sistema Brasileiro de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(National System for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension)
/a A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was introduced
effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate shown above. The cruzeiro
will continue to be legal tender until March 1, 1987, but will be devalued
against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% starting February 28, 1986.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing         The Federal Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Agencies:         Agency (EMBRATER) and the state/territorial associate
agencies (EMATERs/ASTERs)
Amount:           US$155.0 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project           The proposed project would aim tn increase the scope,
Objective:        efficiency and effectiveness of the National System for
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (SIBRATER).
Project           The proposed project is a follow-up to the Agricultural
Description:      Extension I Project (Loan 1568-BR) which was approved in
May 1978.  It would consist of:  (a) the further
institutional strengthening of EMBRATER and of the
EMATERs/ASTERs; (b) expansion and improvement of
extension services; (c) improvement in applied extension
methodology; (d) strengthening of farmer/extension/
research linkages; (e) provision of training, technical
assistance and studies; and (f) expansion of social
extension and community development programs. The
project is expected to improve the incomes and living
standards of Brazilian farmers and their families by
increasing their productivity and supporting the greater
participation of women in agricultural production and
related homecraft activities.
Beneficiaries:    Some 700,000 small-scale farmers are expected to
benefit directly from the project.  In addition, some
150,000 rural families would benefit from social
extension and community development services for the
first time.
Project Risks:    Identifiable risks include:  (a) problems of
institutional coordination in achieving expected
administrative efficiency; (b) the degree to which
appropriate new production packages are available; (c)
the degree to which these packages are accepted by
farmers; and (d) delays in counterpart funding which
could occur particularly at the state level. Much was
achieved under the first project to improve institutional
coordination between the federal and state levels. Under
the proposed project, problems of institutional
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



- ii -
coordination would be clearly defined and remedied
through appropriate procedural and staffing changes.
The proposed closer linkages among farmers, extensionists
and research scientists have been specifically designed
to ensure that the problems of the farmers are being
addressed by research scientists, and that the new
production packages would be increasingly available for
adoption by farmers. With the increased priority being
given to extension services by the Federal and State
Governments, the risk related to the timely provision of
counterpart funds would be minimized.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-       US$ millions-
Institutional Strengthening                   11.2          4.3      15.5
Expansion & Improvement of
Extension Services                          95.3        40.5      135.8
Extension Methodology                         24.5         11.8      36.3
Research/Extension/Farmer Linkages             7.7          3.8      11.5
Training, Technical Assistance and Studies  25.4           22.0      47.4
Social Extension and Community Development
Services                                    21.2         4.9       26.1
BASE COSTS                               185.3        87.3      272.6
Physical Contingencies                         9.9          6.2      16.1
Price Contingencies                           36.4         24.0      60.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      231.6       117.5      349.1 /a
Financing Plan:                              Local     Foreign      Total
-US$ millions
Federal Government                           104.5         -        104.5
State Governments                             89.6         -         89.6
Bank                                          37.5       117.5      155.0
TOTAL                                    231.6       117.5      349.1/a
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY: 1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Annual         12.0    8.2   21.5   26.5   25.5   21.0   18.5   15.3    6.5
Cumulative     12.0   20.2   41.7   68.2   93.7  114.7  133.2  148.5  155.0
Rate of Return:  26%
Map IBRD:         19375
/a   Includes taxes and duties of about US$38.0 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IWAN OF US$155.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$155.0
million to help finance the Agricultural Extension II Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled -Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum' (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and state representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Dr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On his death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney became
President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives stated by
Dr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and
anti-poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on 'traditional'
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic
infrastructure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for
private sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a
more rapid increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential
condition a return to GDP growth of at least 6Z a year. Three major
stabilization aims are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public
sector deficit, renegotiation of the external debt, and the control of
inflation.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricuLtural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the exparsion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign
borrowing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more
than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total
obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The
efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong
internal pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained
vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices
occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increase;, the
current account deficit more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983, the IMF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion through the Extended Fund Facility and
compensatory financing for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, .and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.



-3-
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s-when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs-was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984.  Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total
exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion. Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5% in real terms, or over 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports helped industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remained
small. Overall expansion was still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, high inflation (224%), and real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as t whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by at least 6%. Open
unemployment declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers.
Agriculture expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance
of payments and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by
the new Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly
12% a month in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent
increases, however, brought the 1985 annual rate back to 235%,
significantly above the 1984 figure. Externally, the trade surplus
amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit was about
0.5% of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level
equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from about 1.6% of GDP in 1984
to an estimated 3.3% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized
industrial sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages,
resulted, at least temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these
industries, and Federal Government salaries were also increased to



- 4 -
compensate for large previous declines. Profits were high in many private
sector activities. Monetary policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in
fact, some of the expansion in the monetary aggregates that occurred was
aimed at reducing interest rates. With a sharp reduction in foreign
financing, the growing public debt was financed domestically at high,
though later declining, real interest rates. The real rate on Government
securities declined from 21% in August to 15% by the end of the year. For
the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates increased faster than the
235% inflation: 251% for the monetary base, 312% for Ml, and 262% for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous
months and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South
which damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of
11% in November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 14%
in January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the
Government had prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was
centered around the reduction of the fiscal deficit to 0.5% of GDP. Taxes
were increased and there were cuts in Federal Government and state
enterprise expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986
by the unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated.   Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in December and January, the
Government tightened consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food
imports to offset the drought-related increase in agricultural prices. At
the same time, a shock-treatment approach to stopping inflation was being
prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing
to be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a
number of industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels
and to protect workers from bigher future inflation, the poor agricultural
harvest, and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices.
Moreover, there was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at
200-250X a year, the rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very
difficult over the medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to
new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the price index. In
addition, the small size of the monetary base relative to GDP (about 2%)
and the high liquidity of Government bonds complicated the use of monetary
policy to reduce aggregate demand.



- 5 -
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past,
indexed inflation and to change future inflation expectations. It features
a currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros;
temporary price fixing for all goods and services; an exchange rate set at
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual
adjustments thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing
for one year of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of
financial contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal
savings accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to
appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to
cruzados at the parity existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at
least for one year, in the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of
measures intended to liberalize the financial system. These sweeping
financial reforms were accompanied by plans to eliminate the fiscal deficit
and to use monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible, reduce real
interest rates. A limited unemployment insurance program was introduced.
Initial political and public reactions were highly positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth, which will also be reduced in 1986 by
low or negative growth in the agriculture sector following the recent
drought.  The exchange rate remains competitive-previous mini-devaluations
against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar, are estimated to have
provided a safety margin of 15-20%-and the February 28 wage adjustments do
not raise real wage costs. The large trade surplus remains
a positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be carefully
monitored, the economic outlook has on balance been improved by the
measures to restore internal stability to complement the strong Brazilian
performance in external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are thus
encouraging, assuming the maintenance of sound exchange rate policies,
reasonable success in the implementation of the new stabilization package,
and the present determination to eliminate the public sector deficit, which
the reforms will help to achieve. A focus on further export promotion,
greater productive efficiency, improved resource allocation and increased
savings and investment will be required if annual GDP growth rates are to
remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore living stp-dards and
generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum) to tit new entrants
into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected by the recent
recession.
17.       The prospects depend on external factors outside the control of
Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social policies pursued
within the country. Recent developments, including the decline in
international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have been positive
for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a balance-of-
payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in March with



- 6 -
commercial bank creditors, rescheduling maturities on 1985, rolling over
1986 maturities until early 1987, and reducing interest rates on this debt
from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness                            :
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging nearly 7% in 1985-90, with additional foreign assistance. Total
medium and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at an
annual rate of about 3.8% from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. If all principal on this debt were repaid on
schedule, gross disbursements would need to rise from US$10.7 billion in
1985 to about US$17.7 billion in 1990, and amortization from US$9.8 billion
to about US$14.0 billion in the same period. Net medium- and long-term
lending, which is estimated at under US$1 billion in 1985, is projected at
an average of US$3.6 billion annually in the period 1986-90. For private
medium- and long-term debt, the projections are consistent with reductions
of total real commercial bank exposure to Brazil. Nevertheless, continued
net lending will be required, at a projected average level of approximately
US$2 billion annually.
20.       The projections suggest that interest payments on all debt would
fall from 39% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1985 to about
24% in 1990. The total medium and long-term debt service ratio would fall
from 69% of goods and non-factor service exports in 1985, before the March
rescheduling, to a projected 52% in 1990. In the short run, in the absence
of continued debt rescheduling, debt service payments would have reached
levels threatening the recovery. The ratio of total external debt to goods
and non-factor service exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985, is projected
to decline to 2.6 by 1990. The results of any projections must be viewed
cautiously because of the uncertainties regarding domestic developments ane
future international conditions. Nevertheless, Brazil has the economic
strength, and appears to have the management capabilities and the capacity,
to attract the relatively modest infusions of external capital needed to



- 7 -
maintain satisfactory rates of growth while continuing to meet its
international obligations. Thus, Brazil is creditworthy for new borrowing
on conventional terms in the magnitudes indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1985, the Bank had made 144 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,124.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, US$1,405.0 million in FY84, and US$1,054.5 million
in FY85. The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1985 was US$4,278.9
million.   nnex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. They were a US$300.0 million
loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0 million loan for a
science and technology project, two loans totalling US$122.7 million for
rural development projects in the Northeast region, a US$16.3 million loan
for a technical assistance and pilot rural water supply and sanitation
project, a US$200.0 million loan for a railway project, two loans totalling
US$712.0 million for a power transmission project and a power distribution
project and a US$100.0 million loan for a land tenure improvement project
in the Northeast. Thus far in FY86 two loans have been approved: one for
a small towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5 million and the
second for the Northeast Urban Reconstruction project for US$100 million.
Work is advanced for a second agricultural sector project; a power sector
project; a public sector management project; and several projects in the
Northeast region including five rural development projects, a metropolitan
urban development project, an irrigation engineering project, an irrigation
project, and a health project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$88 billion at the
end of 1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.1%.
24.       As of September 30, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,032.95 million, of which US$685.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. of the balance of US$347.22 million, US$262.07 million
represent loans and US$85.15 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil has been through a difficult transition period, achieving
only at substantial domestic cost, and with international cooperation, the
adjustments required to regain reasonable equilibrium in its balance of



- 8 -
payments. Economic recovery, export-led, began in 1984 when the GDP
increased by some 4.5%. For 1985, growth is estimated at over 8Z. The
domestic stabilization measures which were introduced on February 28,
1986, improved the prospects for maintaining satisfactory growth rates in
the medium term. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public sector
expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and a
sound balance of payments. External and domestic resources will continue
to be constrained. The Bank lending strategy is therefore designed to
support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the mobilization and
effective use of resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and
regional development objectives to which high priority is being attached by
the Government.
26.       In the short run, the Bank will continue to help ease Brazil's
financing constraints through several modalities of the Bank's Special
Action Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983.
These include working capital financing and financing of a higher share of
project costs. Also, greater use is being made of Project Special Accounts
into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need
for the Government to prefinance the Bank's share of project costs.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil in sustaining efficient growth. One focus of the lending program is
on structural transformation and efficient resource use. Expanding export
capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development while promoting efficiency through exposure to
international competition. Sector loans to industry and agriculture,
envisaging a restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of
Government initiatives, have been approved by the Executive Directors.
Follow-up loans designed to support the next steps in this adjustment
process are under preparation. Given agriculture's large potential
contribution to export growth and import substitution, adjustments in this
sector will be crucial to Brazil's stabilization and growth. Sector loans
in support of financial and fiscal reforms will help promote the flow of
resources to the private sector. Lending in support of the financial
restructuring, rehabilitation and development of the energy and industrial
sectors is also envisaged.
28.       Another lending priority is the rehabilitation and development of
infrastructure.   Lending for energy development has addressed the need to
reduce petroleum imports while providing the energy required for
maintaining high rates of economic growth in the future. In the electric
power sector, the Bank's role will be to assist the Government and sector
authorities in their efforts to improve the financial condition of the
sector through realistic investment and financial policies. Lending for
transportation will be directed toward the rehabilitation and maintenance
of the existing transportation network with expansion in areas where
economic activity is outgrowing present capacity.
29.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to



- 9 -
improve their living conditions. The proposed second agricultural
extension loan is designed to benefit about 700,000 mainly small-scale
farmers and 150,000 rural families. The first extension loan was also
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in
the Northeast and the Northwest, as were the previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, polder construction
in the lower Sao Francisco river basin and integrated rural development.
Loans for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for
urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and four loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition reseax-h and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the
Northeast, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the
Northwest. Continued lending eor integrated rural development and
irrigation projects in the Northeast of Brazil will support the Government
objectives to further alleviate poverty, by addressing the region's
vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of regional institutions,
and concentration of land ownership. Further lending for urban development
will address ways to improve urban services and infrastructure, while
simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of municipalities,
particularly in the Northeast region, with a view toward self-financing of
investments and cost recovery. New projects for water supply and sewerage
wilfl also foster these goals while extending services to rural areas and to
the low-income urban population. Education lending will continue to
strengthen financial and administrative institutions while also increasing
the contribution of education to the development process, especially in the
Northeast.
30.       Improving the efficiency of the public sector and supporting the
Government's efforts to reduce the public sector deficit are important
components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. A special Public Sector
Management project, designed to strengthen planning and management
capabilities at Federal level, is advanced in preparation. The Bank is
also undertaking a review of public sector investment programs and is
supporting the Government's efforts to rehabilitate state enterprises.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation helped Brazil in the past to obtain additional
resources from bilateral credit agencies and private financial
institutions. Since 1976, eleven cofinancing operations for about US$570
million were arranged and signed with private financial institutions.
Cofinancing opportunities were rather limited in Brazil in the past four
years, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing available to



- 10 -
Brazil were determined within the framework of debt rescheduling
negotiations. Given Brazil's recent progress in restoring balance of
payments stability and the current efforts to control inflation, the
prospects for obtaining new external financing from commercial sources are
now improving. Cofinancing could become important again in the near
future, and the new cofinancing instruments developed by the Bank could
play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil additional
resources for high priority projects, with better financing terms.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%
and 38Z, respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was a rapid expansion
(5% per annum) in Brazil's agriculture; during the recession in the early
1980s, output and investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
33.       The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply
disparate rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual
crops. The most dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy
capital investment or high levels of seasonal inputs, such as soybeans,
citrus, tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane on large commercial farms in central
and southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in some cases declines,
were recorded for such staple crops as rice, maize, beans, manioc and
potatoes.
34.       These trends in agricultural output were reflected in
agricultural trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports
depended heavily on soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar.
Of total agricultural exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were
accounted for by these five crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of
Brazil's US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of
agricultural exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.
Current Agricultural Development Policy
35.       The primary objective of the Government's agricultural policy is
to restimulate sectoral growth after several years of declining investment
and relatively low output growth. Target growth rates for 1986-1989 in the
National Development Plan are 5% per year for the sector as a whole, 4.5%
for food crops and 5.5Z for export crops. The target increase in the
cultivated area by 1989 is 3 million hectares for food crops and 1.5
million hectares for export crops. In addition to expanding the area
underproduction, the plan calls for increased farm productivity through
expanded use of irrigation and further emphasis on research and extension.
The plan puts emphasis on land reform as a means of reducing economic and
social inequalities in rural areas. A reduction in regional inequalities



- 11 -
is to be achieved by directing public investment to those areas most in
need, especially the North/Northeast. As discussed in the National
Development Plan, Government action to meet its objectives for the
agricultural sector will be focused on six policy areas: (a) price
stabilization; (b) increased farm productivity; (c) expanded cropped area
and agricultural infrastructure; (d) agrarian reform; (e) trade policy; and
(f) rural credit.
Agricultural Technical Support Services
36.       The two major technical services which can be expected to have a
key effect on increasing agricultural productivity and production are the
generation of new technology through research, and the extension of that
technology to the farmer. Brazilian agricultural research and extension
services are briefly described below.
37.       Agricultural Research.  The Brazilian Corporation for
Agricultural Research (EMBRAPA) is the institution responsible for
promoting, coordinating and executing a Government-sponsored research
program throughout Brazil: the National Program for Agricultural Research
(PRONAPA). It comprises regional (natural resource-oriented), national
commodity-based (production-oriented), and state-level (adaptive and
production-oriented) research programs. The Bank-supported Agricultural
Research I and II Projects (Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR) have had a
significant impact on the institutional and technical capacity of EMBRAPA
to implement these research programs. During 1976-85, PRONAPA produced
about 75 regional and crop specific technology packages or production
systems. However, this new technology has not been widely adopted by the
small farmers, and, with the assistance of the extension services, EMBRAPA
now intends to identify the reasons for this low rate of adoption and take
corrective measures accordingly, particularly in the new areas now being
brought under cultivation.
38.       Agricultural Extension Services.  At the national level, the
Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency (EMBRATER)
formulates, coordinates, monitors and evaluates the National System for
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (SIBRATER). Field level extension
activities are carried out by associate state agencies (EMATERs) or
territorial agencies (ASTERs); with the sole exception of the extension
agency in the State of Sao Paulo, these agencies are part of SIBRATER.
EMBRATER's strategy and commodity emphases in the provision of extension
services are guided by the Government's objectives of: (a) guaranteeing
adequate supplies of reasonably priced food on the domestic market; (b)
increasing opportunities for rural employment; Cc) creating exportable
commodity surpluses where there is a comparative advantage; (d) encouraging
agro-industry processing of food products and related services; (e)
improving the standard of living for rural families and strengthening
communitv ties; and (f) preserving the natural resource base and protecting
the environment.



- 12 -
39.       The number of farms in the area covered by SIBRATER (i.e.,
excluding the State of Sao Paulo), is estimated at about 4.9 million,
including the more than 4.0 million small farms (less than 100 ha. each)
which comprise the main target group for the agricultural extension
service. Currently, only 1.2 million farms, or 24% of the total, have
access to agricultural extension services under SIBRATER. Extension
coverage varies widely by region, with 16-17X in the lesser-developed North
and Northeast regions; 30%, Center-West; 34%, Southeast; and 39%, South.
These regional variations partly reflect large differentials in
productivity of existing extension staff. In the South and Southeast
regions where there has been greater experimentation with the use of group
extension methods, the ratios of farmers to extensionist are about 120 to
1, as compared to the Northeast (99 to 1), the Center-West (88 to 1), and
the North (77 to 1). EMBRATER plans an increase in overall extension
coverage from 1.2 to 2.6 million farms over the period 1986-89. This would
require a substantial increase in efficiency of the existing extension
service, based upon the experience of the southern regions with the use of
group extension methods.
40.       The importance of social extension and community development
services being provided by the extension agencies as a complement to their
purely agricultural extension work is now being more fully recognized.
These services include the provision of technical support to rural families
in developing alternative income opportunities (e.g., home vegetable
gardens, homecrafts), and to youth and farmer associations. Currently,
about 534,625 rural families and 1,815 youth groups are benefitting from
these services. A substantial expansion in the coverage of these services
is planned (see para. 53).
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
41.       The Bank has made 33 loans, totaling US$2,026.2 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million and one
supplemental financing loan for US$30.5 million, both under the Special
Action Program; three, amounting to US$519.2 million, for agroindustries;
two, totaling US$60.5 million, for livestock development; one for US$18.2
million for grain storage; two, amounting to US$100 million, for
agricultural research; one for US$100 million, for agricultural extension;
one for US$100 million for a Land Tenure Improvemei.t Project; and 21,
totaling US$794.8 million, for various settlement, irrigation and rural
development projects, 15 of which are located in the Northeast, two in
Minas Gerais, and four in the North and Northwest.
42.       The Project Completion Report for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders
Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that beneficiaries' net incomes increased
beyond original estimates, and small farmers were capable of moving
successfully from subsistence to commercial agriculture. The PCR for the
Agricultural Research I Project (Loan 1249-BR) indicated that the project
achieved the goals set at appraisal, and institution building effects of



- 13 -
that project have been particularly evident. However, it pointed out that
technology transfer linkages to the farmer, through the extension system,
required further improvement.
Experience with Past Bank Lending - The Agricultural Extension I Project
43.       The Agricultural Extension I Project (Loan 1568-BR) became
effective on September 22, 1978, and was to be completed in four years.
Early difficulties, due mainly to changes at the Federal Government level
in 1978, resulted in a delay of almost two years. Some funding
restrictions during 1982/83 created a further one-year lapse. As a result,
project completion was delayed until December 31, 1985, or about seven
years from the date of effectiveness. However, there were no cost overruns
because of the Government's policy of devaluing the cruzeiro in line with
domestic inflation (Cr$15.54 = US$1.00 at appraisal and Cr$10,310 = US$1.00
at end-December, 1985). Moreover, staff salaries did not keep pace with
inflation. The broad objective of the first project was to strengthen
EMBRATER's capability to provide national leadership and overall
coordination in order to create more efficient and effective extension
service agencies at the state level. This was to be done by improvements
in the institutional infrastructure, development of communications systems,
staff training and technical assistance.
44.       Although the Project Completion Report for the first project is
not due until mid-1986, a recent Bank supervision mission identified its
positive and negative results. Among the positive aspects were a
significant increase in the number of better trained extension agents and
improvements in extension methodology through the greater use of field
demonstration plots, as well as of printed materials and radio and
audio-visual programs. These advances have greatly increased the
institutional capability of SIBRATER as a whole. Among suggestions for
improving negative aspects were: (a) more effective project coordination
by the government agencies concerned; (b) higher priority for essential
research-extension linkages; (c) more emphasis on the social/community
development area and greater recognition of the role of social extension in
agricultural production; and (d) more attention to farm economics training
of extensionists to enable them to evaluate more fully the risk factor as
an element preventing adoption of new technology. During the last two
years of implementation, the first project was modified to include social
extension and community development services.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project originated as a follow-up to the Agricultural
Extension I Project. The original project proposal was prepared by
EMBRATER in July 1984 and was subsequently revised with some limited
assistance from Bank staff missions which visited Brazil between March and
July 1985.  The project was appraised during August-September of 1985, and
negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., from March 5-11, 1986. The
Brazilian delegation was headed by Ms. Patricia Goes Bakaj of the Ministry



- 14 -
of Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled 'Agricultural Extension II
Project" (No. 6014A-BR) dated March 31, 1986 is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project data are shown in
Annex III.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
46.       Although considerable progress has been achieved under the
Agricultural Extension I Project in strengthening SIBRATER, the
Government's long-term goals of adequate institutional strengthening and
effective delivery of agricultural extension services to all farmers,
particularly in the lesser-developed North, Northeast, and Center-West
regions, have not yet been fully realized. Further Bank assistance is
warranted to consolidate the progress achieved under the first project and
to support the proposed wider coverage of extension services. An
additional justification for continued Bank support of Brazil's extension
services is that the country is just beginning to achieve significant
results from applied research programs.{ / Adequate returns to this
capital investment in agricultural research cannot be achieved unless there
is further improvement in extension services. The project would also
supplement the various federal/state level technical assistance and
information services which provide key inputs for the rural development,
land settlement, land resource, credit and agro-industry projects which are
currently receiving financing under Bank loans.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The project would aim to increase the scope, efficiency and
effectiveness of SIBRATER. In order to achieve this objective, the project
would: (a) strengthen the coordinating and implementing agencies (EMBRAIER,
EMATERs, ASTERs); (b) expand and improve extension services; (c) change the
extension methodology from the present, traditional systen of individual
contact approach to a group approach; (d) intensify essential farmer/
extension/research linkages; (e) provide training, technical assistance and
required studies; and (f) expand social extension, community development
services, and the role of women. The project would continue the regional
focus of the Agricultural Extension I Project on the North, Northeast and
Center-West regions where despite the gains achieved so far, the quality
and coverage of extension services still remain much less than those in the
more developed South and Southeast regions. The following paragraphs
summarize the main activities to be carried out under the project.
48.       Strengthen the Management and Coordination of SIBRATER.  The
project would strengthen the coordination among federal and state
implementing agencies and improve administrative and operational efficiency
by: (i) identifying constraints and implementing necessary procedural and
staffing changes, based on an analysis of tasks to be performed and of the
corresponding skill gaps and requirements; (ii) preparing suitable training
course curricula based on this analysis; (iii) adding 30 staff to 48
1/ See also Staff Appraisal Report No. 3357a-BR, May 25, 1981, for the
Agricultural Research II Project (Loan 2016-BR).



- 15 -
existing project-related staff positions;2/ and (iv) providing necessary
infrastructure (2 state offices), equipment for data collection and about
513 field service vehicles.
49.       Expand and Improve Field Extension Services.  The project would
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of field extension services by:
(i) further training of 3,600 field staff (see para. 51) which were
recruited and trained under the flrst project; (il) construction of 1,666
local field offices in remote areas and renovation of 150 existing offices;
and (ill) providing equipment, office furnishings and 4,500 field service
vehicles. This would enable SIBRATER to improve agricultural extension
services to the 1.2 million producers now receiving these services and to
extend the coverage to an additional 700,000 producers. In terms of
imnicipalities covered, the number would increase from about 2,600 (60Z of
all municipalities) to about 2,900 (74%).
50.       Change Extension Methodology.  The project would emphasize a
group contact approach, based on methodology studies carried out under the
first project. It would provide for: (i) the addition of 40 staff to 114
existing project-related staff positions; (ii) the acquisition, production
and dissemination of books, pamphlets, audio-visual and other materials;
(ii) the acquisition of about 80 mobile audio-visual units, equipment to
prepare audio-visual programs, 85 radio units, 780 field service vehicles,
and inputs and equipment for some 15,000 on-farm demonstration plots; and
(iv) training for 3,400 new farm youth group leaders.
51.       Intensify Farmer/Extension/Research Linkages.  Intensifying these
linkages would provide adequate feedback from farmers to researchers under
the PRONAPA (ENBRAPA) program, so that on-farm problems could be addressed
through changes in research program emphasis. Specifically, the project
would provide for: (i) the addition of 33 staff to 44 existing
project-related staff positions; (ii) frequent research/extension staff
contacts through designated liaison staff at the experiment station and
state program level; (iii) about 1,500 farm/research station study tours to
promote research/extension interaction and to review priorities, and an
annual research program planning exercise to reflect farmers' needs; (iv)
joint research/extension staff participation in on-farm observation and
demonstration plots; and (v) production of audio-visual and printed
materials developed from (iii) above.
52.       Provide Training, Technical Assistance and Studies.  The project
would include: (i) pre-service training courses for 5,000 incremental
and/or replacement staff and in-service training courses, averaging one
course per year, for all technical field staff (16,500) in the entire
extension system; (ii) subject-matter specialist training in soil
conservation, irrigation system management, rational use and control of
agro-chemicals, and farm management; (iii) construction of 27 training
centers and 381 field practice teaching units at 50 training centers;
2/ Project-related staff refers to staff which were recruited under the
first project.



- 16 -
(iv) provision of equipment for the 27 new training centers; and (v)
technical assistance to EMBRATER through the addition of 72 staff to the
existing 112 project-related staff, assisted by nine man-years of
consultancy services,to carry out studies for the administrative
strengthening of federal and state operations, monitoring and evaluation,
extension methodology, research and extension linkages and sources of
financing for SIBRATER. This latter study would aim at identifying new
sources of financing for SIBRATER, including the introduction of charges
for extension services being provided to medium and large farmers.
53.       Expand Social Extension, Community Development Services and the
Role of Women. Building on the experience under the first project, the
project would support the greater participation of women in increasing farm
family incomes, and more generally, family well-being by: (i) providing
production-related extension, specifically for home vegetable gardens and
orchards; (ii) promoting non-agricultural, income-generating activities
such as homecrafts; (iii) promoting the formation of producer groups
(pre-cooperatives); and (iv) providing social extension to address matters
of health, hygiene and nutrition. Towards this end, the project would
involve: (i) adding 550 field staff to the existing 111 project-related
staff positions; (ii) purchasing 500 field vehicles and equipment; (iii)
purchasing 25 audio-visual mobile units; (iv) developing social extension
training courses at 42 training centers; and (v) providing equipment for
some 400 field units. This would enable social and community development
services to be extended to an additional 150,000 farm families, about
18,000 youth groups and 2,400 community councils.
Project Im- lementation
54.       EMBRATER would implement the project at the national level, in
accordance with the terms of the contracts that would be entered into
among the Borrower, through its Ministry of Agriculture, EMBRATER and each
of the states/territories and the EMATERs/ASTERs. The signing of these
contracts would be a condition of disbursement of the Bank loan for each
participating state and territory. Under the coordination of EMBRATER,
project activities would be implemented in: the 22 participating states in
the federation - i.e., all states, with the exception of Sao Paulo, which
historically has not been part of the national extension system; the two
territories (Roraima and Amapa); and the federal district (Brasilia,
D.F.). Following procedures currently in force for the Agricultural
Extension I Project, EMBRATER would ensure that: (a) each associate company
is provided with guidelines on all fiscal, planning and functional details
of project implementation; (b) annual budget requirements are met; (c)
monitoring and evaluation procedures are followed; and (d) specific project
related studies are implemented. During negotiations, EMBRATER provided
assurances that each EMATER and ASTER would designate a Project Coordinator
to coordinate project implementation with the project coordinating unit in
EMBRATER.  EMBRATER also provided assurances that it would furnish the
Bank for its review and comment: (a) by September 30 of each year, the
guidelines regarding priority programs, regions and target groups for the
use of the EMATERs/ASTERs in connection with the preparation of their
annual operational plans (POAs); and (b) by November 30 of each year, the
proposed POAs of the EMATERs/ASTERs for the following year.



- 17 -
55.       With reference to the studies to be conducted, EMBRATER has
agreed to give high priority to the study on alternative sources of
financing for SIBRATER. During negotiations, EMBRATER provided assurances
that the consultants for this study would initiate their work by June 30,
1986, and that the results of the study would be presented to the Bank for
review by December 31, 1986.
56.       Under the contractual arrangements referred to in para. 54 above,
the EMATERs and ASTERs would implement the project at the field level.
They would: (a) execute civil works and make capital investments following
procedural guidelines approved by EMBRATER's project coordination unit (b)
execute project components at the field level in accordance with the
previously approved work program; and (c) submit the necessary accounting
documentation and monitoring reports on project progress as outlined in the
project implementation guidelines. A condition of disbursement of the Bank
loan for each state and territory would be the presentation by EMBRATER to
the Bank of the approved POA of the respective EMATER/ASTER for the first
year of project implementation.
Project Costs
57.       The total cost of the project over the eight-year implementation
period (1986-93) is estimated at US$349.1 million, of which about US$117.5
million, or 34%, represents foreign exchange. Physical contingencies were
calculated at the rate of 10% for civil works, equipment, furnishings,
books and publications, resulting in overall average physical contingencies
of 6% of the base costs. Price contingencies (22% of base costs) have been
estimated at 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7.0% for 1989, 7.1% for
1990 and 4.0% for 1991-93. Price contingencies were applied to all
components except salaries. No price contingencies in dollar terms have
been provided for the project's salary costs in line with the Government's
objective of controlling the growth of public sector operating
expenditures. The base cost of US$272.6 million was estimated from August
1985 prices and adjusted to reflect April 1986 prices. The federal/state
taxes and duties on project-related purchases/services were calculated to
be about US$38.0 million giving a total project cost, net of taxes and
duties, of US$311.1 million. A total of 24 man-years of consultant
services, estimated at about US$1.2 million, would be required for all
components.
Financing Plan
58.       The proposed Bank loan of US$155.0 million would be for 15 years
including three years of grace, and would finance 50% of project costs, net
of US$38.0 million in taxes and duties and US$1.1 million in reserve
procurement for computer equipment, or 44% of total project costs. The
Government, through specific budget allocations to EMBRATER, would finance
US$104.5 million (302); the remaining US$89.6 million (26%) would be
financed by the state/territorial governments. Based on experience with
the first project, the participation of the states/territories in the
financing of the project is a feasible arrangement, although occasional
delays may be incurred by individual sta 's/territories in providing



- 18 -
counterpart funds. The shares of the Government and of each of the
state/territorial governments in the financing of the project would be
specified in the contracts referred to above (para. 54). The allocation of
counterpart funds required for the first year of project implementation is
a condition of loan effectiveness.
Procurement
59.       The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project
elements are shown below.
Table 1: BRAZIL - PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ millions)
Force Account
Prudent       and      Total
Project Expenditure           ICB     LCB     Shopping       Other      Cost
Civil Works                          38.9                     29.4      68.3
(18.5)                  (14.2)    (32.7)
Equipment & Vehicles         14.5   124.1         19.6         1.1      159.3
(14.5)  (50.2)       (8.7)        C-)      (73.4)
Services                              3.0         5.0        113.5     121.5
(2.0)       (3.5)      (43.4)    (48.9)
TOTALS                       14.5   166.0         24.6       144.0     349.1
(14.5)  (70.7)      (12.2)       (57.6)   (155.0)
/a  Values in parentheses reflect amounts to be financed by Bank.
60.       Civil works (US$68.3 million) would be procured under local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank (US$38.9
million) and by force account (US$29.4 million). Local competitive bidding
would be justified as construction of some 27 units with an average unit
cost of US$400,000 would be at widely scattered sites. Force account
procedures would apply to 1,666 local offices (average unit cost of
US$25,000) to be built in remote areas in the 24 states/territories and to
400 small field training centers (didactic units) costing no more than
US$10,000 per unit.
61.       Vehicles (US$58.7 million) would comprise utility, off-the-road
vehicles, buses, pick-ups, motorcycles and boats supplied for use in 25
states/territories and the Federal District (DF). These units, mainly of
specialized types, would be procured in small lots according to need over a
period of eight years. Procurement would be through LCB procedures
consistent with Bank guidelines. Apart from the small size of individual
contracts, which are not likely to be attractive to foreign firms,



- 19 -
pro_urement through LCB is warranted in this case by the need to ensure
fleet uniformity and a limited number of vehicle types. These are
essential to the establishment of adequate maintenance facilities including
the timely availability of spare parts. In the rural environment under
which the project would operate, these facilities are of critical
importance for meeting the project's transportation requirements in the
most economical and efficient way.
62.       Field equipment and furnishings (US$64.5 million) for training
centers, state headquarters and local would also be acquired through LCB
procedures. These purchases, in lots of approximately US$10,000 each, are
required at some 2,500 locations in remote areas and, as requirements are
locality- and crop-specific, cannot be aggregated into larger purchases.
The total cost of specialized equipment (audio-visual, communications,
photographic and printing equipment) is estimated at US$16.5 million, of
which US$14.5 million would be purchased through international competitive
bidding (ICB). Small quantities of specialized equipment, in lots less
than US$200,000 each, but in the aggregate amounting to no more than US$2.0
million, would be purchased through LCB. Farm hand tools and supply inputs
(US$19.6 million) for use in training centers and demonstration plots would
be purchased in small quantities and amount to no more than US$20,000 per
contract. These would be acquired through prudent shopping (at least three
quotations) and reported under statements-of expenditure. All bidding
packages for civil works contracts over US$1.0 million and bidding packages
for goods over US$250,000 (about 70% of total procurement) would be subject
to prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid evaluation and award
proposals. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review
by the Bank after contract award. Consultant services (under technical
assistance contracts) would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
63.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against: 100% of the
foreign costs of staff training, equipment, materials and furnishings,
consultants and contracted studies; 60Z of local costs of staff training
and technical meetings; 50% of eligible salary costs, and of the costs of
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, vehicles and spare parts, civil
works, and methodology and field demonstration inputs; and 50% of the local
costs of equipment, materials and furnishings. Disbursements against
eligible salary costs would be at 50% of the total cost on a declining
basis as follows: Year 1, 80%; Year 2, 6OZ; Year 3, 40%; Year 4, 20% and
OZ thereafter. Disbursements for purchases and contracts of less than
US$250,000 would be made against statements of expenditure initiated by the
EMATERs/ASTERs and certified by EMBRATER. Supporting documentation would
not be submitted to the Bank but retained by EMBRATER and made available
for inspection by the Bank during supervision missions. EMBRATER would
submit standard-documentation for contracts of US$250,000 or more, to the
Bank.
64.       The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed over an
eight-year period, in line with the historical disbursement profile for
agricultural projects in Brazil. The estimated schedule of disbursements



- 20 -
is shown in page (ii) of the Loan and Project Summary of this report.
The closing date for the loan would be June 30, 1994.
65.       In order to maintain the momentum achieved under the first
project, a broad range of activities have already been initiated under this
project. In order to support the balanced implementation of the project,
all project expenditures (except for supervision, monitoring and
evaluation) incurred prior to loan signing but after January 1, 1986, would
be eligible for reimbursement up to US$12.0 million equivalent.
66.       To reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account
would be opened in the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of up to
US$8.0 million. The Government may request the Bank to make advance
payments of dollars from the loan account into this Special Account.
Withdrawals in cruzados from this Special Account would be supported by
statements of expenditure or other required documentation, and payment
would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date of
expenditure. At agreed intervals, the Central Bank would send the
corresponding statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the
Special Account. The project would also participate in the advance system
of the Central Bank of Brazil. A Project Account would be established by
EMBRATER to receive monthly advances of project funds (in cruzados) from
the Central Bank. Such advances would subsequently be reimbursed to the
Central Bank by payments from the Special Account. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that the project would participate in
the Central Bank system of advancing project counterpart funds.
Accounts and Audit
67.       EMBRATER would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under
the project. Certificates of expenditures, including satisfactory evidence
of incremental staff salaries, would be made available to the Bank for
review in Brasilia, upon request. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that EMBRATER would have these accounts audited by
independent auditors, in accordance with sound auditing principles,
acceptable to the Bank, and that such audits would be submitted to the Bank
no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Progress Reporting
68.       Physical and financial monitoring of progress on the project
would be the responsibility of the project coordinator at the EMAIER/ASTER
level, and progress reports would be submitted to EMBRATER every three
months. The project coordinating unit in EMBRATER would then consolidate
these reports to provide: (a) quarterly progress reports on incremental
staff and selected key indicators; (b) semi-annual progress reports; and,
(c) a Project Completion Report to be submitted to the Bank within six
months of project completion. By December 31, 1989, or when 50% (US$77.5)
of the loan has been disbursed, whichever is earlier, the Bank and EMBRATER
would jointly review progress made under the project and measure the extent
to which project objectives are being achieved. These arrangements are
similar to the procedures used in the first extension project, which were



- 21 -
found to be satisfactory. During negotiations, EMBRATER provided
assurances covering the joint mid-term review mentioned above.
69.       Assumptions concerning actual impact on change and the rate of
adoption of new technology by farmers, with subsequent increases in yields
have been particularly difficult to assess. EMBRATER's Monitoring and
Evaluation Group, which was established under the first project, has made
limited progress in evaluating the effects of extension. The Group's
findings have been used for calculating an estimated economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project. As part of the design of the M&E studies to
be carried out under the project, several groups of farmers would be
selected for control purposes, to permit a valid impact analysis to be
made. The M&E group would monitor and analyze data on advances in
research, their relation to the technical assistance offered and the extent
to which the recommendations are adopted at farm level.
Beneficiaries, Incremental Production and Marketing
70.       The direct beneficiaries of the project would be the additional
700,000 farmers receiving exteasion services for the first time. About 70Z
of these farmers have incomes below the poverty level (defined as two
minimum salaries per farm family, equivalent to US$310.0 per capita per
annum, assuming an average family size of five). In addition, as part of
the project's social extension -and community development activities, some
150,000 rural families would benefit from assistance in education, health,
nutrition and instruction in homecraft activities to improve family
incomes. Apart from these direct beneficiaries, the 1.2 million farmers
who now have access to extension services would also benefit from the
increased efficiency and effectiveness of the entire network.
71.       Although the project is expected to have an impact over a wide
range of crops, only nine crops aid two livestock activities (swine,
cattle) were used in the economic analysis as being most representative of
the production patterns of the target group. For the nine crops, there
would be national production increases of two to five percent per year such
that the production levels at project maturity (1993) would exceed the
corresponding levels in 1985 by the following amounts: cotton, 42,000 tons;
rice, 208,000 tons; beans, 62,000 tcns; manioc, 271,000 tons; maize,
446,000 tons; soybeans, 903,000 tons; garlic, 7,000 tons; tomatoes, 49,000
tons; and potatoes, 45,000 tons.  For livestock enterprises, similar,
modest increments of 3-5Z per year we.e estimated as being attributable to
the project. Nationally, these cropL/livestock are produced on farms where
direct extension services are provided to areas representing between 28%
and 70Z of the total crop, the exception being cattle (17%).
72.       The incremental production generated by the project would be
marketed primarily in local, rural markets for basic food crops (beans,
maize, rice, potatoes, manioc) and garlic. Increments are well below
expected demand for these crops based cna estimated population growth.
Export or industrial crops, i.e., cotton, soybeans and tomatoes, are also
well within current demand estimates. 3oth beef and milk are frequently
imported to meet current needs.



- 22-
Economic Analysis and Cost Recovery
73.       Based on conservative assumptions about potential yields,
estimated farmer participation, development period costs and prices, the
ERR is 26%. The sensitivity anslyses indicate that even with a 20Z rise in
costs, and a three-year lag in benefits, the return would be about 11% or
the presently estimated opportunity cost of capital.
74.       While it is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery on
rural development and services to low-income rural families, which are the
target population in this case, the Government would receive increased
fiscal revenues from the project-related incremental production. The value
added tax on the incremental agricultural production would generate an
estimated US$15.8 million per annum at full development. Revenues from the
social security tax levied at 2.5% of the value of marketed production
would provide a further US$2.4 million annually. Thus, by project Year 7,
the increased annual revenues from those two main sources would be expected
to offset about 50Z of the annual incremental recurrent costs resulting
from project activities.
75.       Project costs must be viewed in relation to the overall cost of
the agricultural extension service network (SIBRATER) as a whole. In
comparison with actual and estimated budgets of SIBRATER for the 1986-93
period, the project cost would represent 31% of the overall budget for
extension services in 1986, but only about 16Z in 1993. Also, the fact
that disbursements for recurrent incremental salary expenditures are being
made on a declining percentage basis (80-60-40-20%) during the first four
years of project implementation means that such costs must be totally
funded under normal SIBRAiER budgeting procedures by project Year 5
(1990). The project also includes a study to review the current sources of
funding for the SIBRATER system and to identify other, long-range funding
sources (para. 52).
Project Risks
76.       The main risks are:  (a) problems of institutional coordination
in achieving expected administrative efficiency; (b) the degree to which
appropriate new production packages are available; (c) the degree to which
these packages are accepted by farmers; and (d) delays in counterpart
funding which could occur particularly at the state level. Much was
achieved under the first project to improve institutional coordination
between the federal and state levels. Under the second project, further
institutional constraints would be clearly defined and remedied through
appropriate procedural and staffing changes. The proposed closer linkages
among farmers, extensionists and research scientists have been specifically
designed to ensure that the problems of the farmers are being addressed by
the research scientists, and that these new production packages will be
increasingly available for adoption by the farmers. The degree of risk
that the uptake of new technology, even if well-advertised and promoted,
would be minimal or slow depends partly on production incentives as well on
structural factors beyond the scope of the project (e.g. the land tenure
system and the associated high level of risk aversion of farmers who have



- 23 -
little or no access to land on a secure basis). This risk is manageable
considering the successful experience under the first project and the
priority being accorded by the Government to improving the agricultural
pricing and trade policies and the land tenure system (para. 35). With the
increased priority being given to extension services by the Federal and
State governments, the risk related to the timely provision of counterpart
funds would be miniimized. Furthermore, the study on the sources of
financing for SIBRATER (para. 52) would provide recomendations for
strengthening the financial basis of SIBRATER.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 26, 1986



24                              ~~~~~~ANNEX  I
- 24 -                            ~~~~Page I of 7
MRAZIL                - BOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHERT
BRAZIL                             RErPENCE GROUPS (WUEGHEID AVKRAGES) 4
NOST                CMOSM  CENT ESTIMAT) /b
RECCNT       MIDDLE INCOME           MIDLE lNcalS
znotk    197isia     ETIHATLb-   LAT. ASAIcA 6 cAl                 r
AUA (TcNUmD gQ. o)
TUTAL                            6312.0      9312.0      8512.0
AGRICULTURAL                     1636.4      1961.2      2352.7
CIT MWFITA (IIl                     330.0        600.0     2240.0           2106.6                   2345.3
EmlRma 0WNSIUTIOU 553 CAPITA
(KILOCRAms or OIL EQUIVALENT)    264.0        412.0      740.0            993.3                   1122.3
romanoN AND VWTr. aTsnST1CS
POPULATIONHID (EAM (TIOUSANDS)  72594.0     95847.0   126W06.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 o0 TOTAL)     44.9         55.6       68.8             66.3                     46.N
POPULATION PRoJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (NILL)                          1L.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            303.6
POPULATION HOMHETWU                                      1.5
POPULATION DCNSITY
PER SQ. SH.                       8.5        11.3        14.6            35.7                     82.9
PER SQ. 10. ACGR. LAD           44.4         48.4       52.7             92.4                    158.9
POPULATION AGE STIUCTURE (2)
0-14 YUS                        43.6        42.7        40.9             39.9                    31.6
15-64 YRS                       53.8         54.3       55.6             56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                      2.6         3.1        3.5              4.1                      7.1
POPULATION CROWH RATE (2)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.8        2.3              2.4                      1.6
URBAN                             5.7         3.0        4.1              3.b                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       42.7        35.0        31.2             31.3                    23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER  30OUS)      12.9        10.3        8.1              6.L                      8.8
CROS' REPRODUCTLON RATE            3.0          2.4        1.9              2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..       111.0       203.6 /c
USERS (Z OF HAARRED WOMEN)                                               40.3
FOeO An runin
INDEX OF F7D0 PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-1003                      69.0       102.0      133.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OP REQUIREMENTS)    106.0       104.0       107.0            110.6                   125.6
PROTElNS (GRAZS PER DAY)        64.0         62.0       60.0             67.3                     89.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      35.0        34.0        36.0 Id          34.1                    34.3
CHID (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         19.4        12.5        8.0              5.7                      5.2
-At8
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     54.7         56.9       63.8             64.7                     67.4
INFANT MlRT. RATE (PER THO0S)    118.2         98.6       73.4             60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                                        55.0       77.1 /I          65.4
URBAN                                        78.0       38.6 7;          78.1
RURAL                                        28.0       56.8 7;          46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              .         58.0       64.8 /I           52.9
URBAN                                        85.0       83.7 7;          67.0
RURAL                              .         24.0       31.7 7;          24.53
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2210.0      2130.0         ..           1917.7                   1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON         2810.0       1120.0                       513.8                    764.4
POP. FPR HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0       250.0 le         367.2                   326.3
11AMN                           250.0       320.0         ..            411.5                    201.5
RURAL                                                                  2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPIrAL BED                    18.4                        27.3                     20.0
NOOSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLO
TOTAL                             5.1         4.8        4.9 Ie
URvAN                                         4.6        4.7 7;
RURAL                                          .2        5.3 7e
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                                         1.1
URBAN                              ..         1.0
RURAL                                         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF WELLUNGS)
TOTAL                            38.7        47.6       67.4
URBAN                                        75.6       88.5
RURIAL                                        8.4       20.6



- 25 -
ANNBE I
Page 2 of 7
- SOCAL uzcaomu DAT  su
*F1333q owU11 (NEIUIE  AVEZASE) IL
Km                  Q(IT RICIT ZNIIE) 
uuCcoik 1D7 k111=2 MDDU  3            INDD    Ch
iteca  10Y     38t114:ut      LAT. AM010   CARt           R1A0P3
Pume  TOtAl                       95.0        14.0        93.0             0.4                     101.1
NAI                    97.0        34.0        93.0             106.3                    103.3
MALE                   93.0        86.0        93.0             104.5                     36.7
UECOUTi T1OTA                     11.0        26.0        32.0   4         423.2                    5. I
NAM1                   11.0                    29.0 i           2.3                       6. 9
N1                     0.0        27.0        35.0              44.5                    50. 6
VOCATZOKUC (O 1 UCO UI)            1.6         16.7       59.2 .            33.6                     21.6
13133                            33.0        26.0        26.0 It          30.1                     23.1
n c00134W                        13.0         13.0        14               16.3                     20.5
AWL? LrZIZIM  RAZ ()                61.0        66.2        76.0 a           79.5                     75.6
P     JMURR  CARS/DOUUAJIU  0       7.6         16.6       43.9              46.0                     54.7
RADMIO ChYhI/5110WIUD Po           65.4        108.4       165.1            225.                     164.9
TV 2RZvK/TDOUAN  POP                16. 3       44.3       113.7            107.2                    123.6
XhAM8 ("NULT OZU AL
Ulfmer) CUCIUflON
PER 7093*33 POULTION              52.9        35.6         4.0             63 .5                    96.3
CltM  AUAL ATTZRDII/CAflTI          4.4          2.0         1.6              2.6                      2.9
TOTAL tARO 103Z (TH0U3)          23326.0     30411.0    40365.0
iDAt C(13302)                     17.2        20.1        23.2             23.2                     34.5
AOZCUILTUEI (322013!)             51.9        45.6        29.9             31.5                     40.7
1230813 (mnT)                     14.8        16.3        24.4             23.9                     23.3
iasscxPAzzo RAZ C1UCZT)
TOMS.                             32.1        31.7        31.8             32.2                     42.9
NM11                              52.7        50.3        48.9             49.3                     54.7
MALZ                              11.2        12.L        14.6             15.2                     31.0
ECONOMIC DENIhC  RATIO               1.4         1.4         1.4              1.4                      0.9
133 01 pRXVAU  30
HICIIT 5X  Uor   EELDS              .
KIcOS  201 01 loSEELDS           60.0         63.5        62.0 /s
1.CWSU 203 or U0113L               3.8         3.2         2.0 a
LOW E OS o401101111U1            10.6          9.0         9.4
usnA2   Ae      s i Povzm   1COM
VEL (US4 PER CAPIA)
U                                   ..          ..          ..            288.2
RURAL                              ..           ..       150.0 /d         184.0
CTBlZD  ZILATI   POVEMR  INCQ
LEWD. (U5$ In CAPITA)
MMAN                               ..           ..       465.0 /d         522.8
RURA^L                             ..           ..       332.0            372.6
ZSIWTD POP. BMW A5SOL8TE
POVETY 1C0   LEVEL (2)
URm                                ..
ENEA                               ........
NOT AVAZLABL
NOT APPICAUI
N 0 T E S
/a  The group aree  for ech indicator -  population-weghted arltbmtic menu. Covera  of countrim among the
Indicators depends on avaflebilty of data and Is not unifor.
fb  UnIeen otherwie noted, "Dta for 1960" refer to any yar  betas 1959 and 1961; "Dt for 1970" between 1969 end
1971; and date for btset Recent EtinattN betas 198C end 1982.
/c  1975; /d    o 1 976; /4 1979; L/ Uesg{tnni  1973 primay end secondary eduatio  cover age groupe 7-14 and 15-17
xmitea-of 7-10 oFnd 11-17 In earlier years; therefore. moat recent eststeeo are not copreble with *erlir date;
A 1978.
JU, 1934



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Pa8a  3 of 7
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notec Although the data ae drawn fron nsesneNlyjudged the moat authrtative nd rliAble, it should aio be noted tha they may not be internationally
comparable  rew of the lack or standardizd dehnition. and concepts usd by different eontri In colldcng the data. The data amr nouheke useful to
describe orde or mgnatude, indicate tred and characrie certain major differenc between countre.
The refrence goup. are (I) the name cuntry roup or the subet country and (2).  country gup with smewhat higher averge income than the country
group of the subject country (exsept for fltgh Income Oil Exporter group where Middle IncomenNorth Afria and Middle East is choen because of tronger
sodo.cultusndllnitiecs In the ren  grmoup data the averages ae populaton weighted arithmetic mcuss for each indicator and son only when majority
orthe countries in a goup ha data for that inditor. Sinc the covee ofountrks among the indicator depend on deu availbifity ofdata and is not uiform.
caution must be exerisd In retnting averge of one indicator to another Tbhee averags ae only useful in comparing the value of one indicator as time mong
the country nd refreance grupsL
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Cniu lk Rate (per thousaad)-Number orlive births in the year
Teet-Tota surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  pr thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crde Death Rate (per thoumind)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrie stari-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gros Repredt  Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive pcriod if she experiences
present ag-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prioes, calculated by same conversion method as World    Family Planuiq-Acceptors, Amal (thowssnds-Annual nun-
Bank Adts (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                           herofacceptorbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignitc,     kidy Planna-lUsers (pecent of rried wmen)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geotbermal ck-   tage of manied women of child-bearing age who are praticing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally wwmen aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total rapuawias.  Mid- Year (thoasands)-As or July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urba  Poulaton  percnt  f staflRato ofurbn tototl  Idex of Fbdhodxnciea Pr Capia (1969-71 -1m0)-index ofrper
Urhm P      _psklion (pemnt of *etol)-Ratio Of urban to total   capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excudes anma feed and seed for agriculture. Food cmmodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
POP- lt   P     _jection                                        which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pbpulation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they compnse cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with infornation on  vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per Capit Supply ofCaries (percent ofreqaremuens)-Comput-
Statinary populain-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sire was estimated on the basis of the projected charact-ristics of  and health considering environmental temnpeature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate ordecline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement kvel.                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentwn-Is the tendency for population growth to    Pr Capita Supply f atwein (grams per dayj-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fcrtihty has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for mninimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protcin. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams or animal protcin as an
Pop-hwion Dem;4                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJcm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capa Petwein Suply From Aeinsal and Pulse-Protein supply
Per sqcnr. anriulrual land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grans per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Pepulaton Age Srnctare (percentj-Childrem (0-14 years), work-   Chd (ages 1-4) DeathRare (per 1osasand)-Number of deaths of
ing age(l5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (perceut)-t4otalL-AnnuaI growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Popnlatio Growth Rate (percent)-arban-Annual growth rates       Life Expectany at litk (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 27 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at the tie of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupilteacher Rato - prbnary. and secandry--Total students en-
1960,1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in primary and secondary kls divided by numbes or
JAnt MawaEsy Awe (per trh   ud)-Number of infants who die      teachrs in the corsponding evels
before reaching one year of age per thousnd live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMMION
Acres to Se  BWe (rcg' oft PIFS            -fll. wham, _d      Phuengr Cars (per tehond poplariao)-Ptssenger cars com-
nal-Number of people (total urban, and ral) with reasonable    pnsc motor cas seating less than eight pdrsons excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includs treated  uface  waters or  anc,  herses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such -s that from poled     Ra&o Receiers (per thomuppalaon)-Al types of receivers
borhoke. spring and sanitary well) s pcenit oft ir td          for radio broadcasts to gnal public per thousand of population;
tive populationsL In an urban are a public fountain or standpost  exdundes un-licensed receivers in countries and in year when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be consiereir  of radio sets -  in effect data for rent yea  may
as being within reasonable soress of that house. In ruralr -   not be comparable since most countries abolis  hdlcensing.
reasonable acce  would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselbold do not have to spnd a disproporionate part of the day  TVReceV n (per thousd ppdatuk.)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the fanulys water n                                to general public per thousand popuation; excludes unlicensed TV
Access to Exere& a Diqsp   (peret of   sp  )e4t   , .          receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
ad rwal-Numrber of people (totaL urban, and rural) served by   in effect.
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Au ropew Geafam (per thoeAndpopudelda   ,Shows the aver-
Ecreta disposal may indude the collection and disposal, with or  age osculation of 'daily general interest newpaper," defined as a
without treatma it, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primariy to recording genera news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily' if it appeas at least four times a week.
Populro per Phyl_iza-4bpulation divided by number of prac-     Csu Amad AUStaSE per Cpita pr Yew-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levl,  number of tickets sold during the yar. induding admissions to
PApsie per Nrsg Arr -NPopulation divided by number of          drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
pracing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Ipaaow per Repeal IeW-total, she, ad ara-Population            Totel Lade Farce (thons)-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospial beds available in public and private, gcedl and specalized  students. etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and mhabilitation centers. Hospitals are establislunets  various countnies are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanendy staffed by at kea one physician. Establishments prov-  FeaRw  (perenor-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaly cusodial car are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
ho,wvez, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agriculxre (percewJ -Labor force in famning, forestry. huntig
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc)  and fishing as pemntage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offcr in-patient acconmodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faciLties.                                          Industry (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction. amnu-
AAisions pwer Hospiml Rd-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and dectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Ahrdpadi Ra  (pereut)-foral. mal,d adfesk-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activitj rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
A-eq  Sze of HouselWd (persons pe                   ursan)-tel    ,  as percentages of totaL male and female populaton of all ages
aSW.r--A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These arm based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for staistical purposes.   long tie trend. A fcw esfimates are from national sourcs.
Avege Number of Persons per RAno'-re-*;  wham, and rura-       Ecamc Dependency Rato-Ratio of population under IS, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rual      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percfe  of Dwllugs wth Electricirp-ftal, who, ad rurl-         Percet   of Totd Dispoabir l1as (herb i cash ad kud)-
Conventional dwellings with elctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adruted Eurea   Ratios                                         The following estimates are very approximnate measures of poverty
Pl-bary school - toral. mak  and female-Gross total male and  levs. and should be interpreted -with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ags at the prmnary level as percentages of  EtMated Absohute Poverty Ibcn  Lad U3 Per cpitaJ)- mrb
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income lvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 yearS others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differmnzs in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estmted Reaive Amrety lucenw Level (ISS per capia)-,urhon
education, gross enrolm ent may exceed 100 pcnt since some     ad rral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
ager                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondwy school - totl. mole and femak--CoDputed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Ewimed Pploiw  Blbow Absolte oer  lucv Level (per-
mary instucto  provides geneaL vocationaL or teacher training  ceat)-urbon ad rual-- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are absdlute poor."
en courses are geneally ccduded.
Vocaiona Enrolleni (percent of secndary)-Vocational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical industriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-                                                         RW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5of 7
L - NC DO
pqdalAU 19.7 1L9(Md-g
O    r Cltu  1381,690(1983)
US  Uiamn t                                                        A       Rh Rum  C
Indicator                    (3984)                              ActuI                                                        Projected
1975     1980     1981      1962       193      196Ld          196115    196       1937      396       1939      19S0
0zmw Dinetc Pw mce            212.m0           5.6      7.2    -1.6        0.9       -3.2       4.5           83        6.2       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
Agdc1a                       24.23B          2.7      6.2      6.4      -2J         2.2       4.3           6.8       2.0       4.5       4.5       45        4.5
In&im                        62.792          5.3      7.9    -52         0.8       -6J        5.9           9.0       5.0       L5        8.5       L5        85
SueAI                       103.825         10.3      7.3    -0.1         1.7      -1.5       3.0           7J        6.0       6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5
oqm1ua                        365,571         8.4       3.5      0.2       3.3       -2.0      0.6              3       4.7       5.2       6.5       6.3       6.1
am. I,wbint/b                  34.817         -7.0     11    -5.9         4.2       -17.5       1.0          12.2      24.9      12.3      12.0     II         11.6
b of GUS                       29._19    1     2.4     22.7     2D.9         4        13.6     24.9          -3.2      -1.0       5.4       3.4       2.3       5.3
1bara cc GUS                   17,865        -9.6       1.8    O.AL       -5.2      -17.2    -4.5            -3.2      22A        1.5   I O          5.l       9.7
CGro  Natal Sawid_             23.818         4.4      11.6    -16.6     .10.6       -3.4      2L6            11.7     26.3      15.0       11.3      11.1      12.6
prim
CUP  faor (197010D)                         3D       2.955    5.844    11.41       2B,211   90,541
Dl.um no (.Viqp,eSl )                          8.1     52.7     93.1     179.5      577.0  1,84.9
SGm  of GO  M 3It I   dm (2)              bkne    h1 Icume Cc)
cmt Oaet Pdm)                                        (C O t1984  PI.)
1975      19W1       1985d    1990/c                        1975-0   198>65   198340
cm   OMIC  P tO                       100.0     10.O    IO0.0      IO.O                            6.5       0.        6.8
AgrImIz.zu                           9.2       11.0      11.5      10.1                           *.5       2.2       6.1
TA&Mey                               31.1      28.      29.8      3LI                            4.6      -4.3       5.'
Sumcal                              43.6       44.8      48.7      47.J                           7.8       1.3       8.4
Gm-Wu                                 76.6      81.3      78.0       74.3                           7.7      -1.8       5.8
on" b...mt/b                           2.3       21.1      17.0      26.0                           2.8      -42       13.7
{Noet GUS                              7.5       8.8       1.5       10.4                           6.4      14.5       3.2
1ptm aUS                               11.4      11.2      7.4        8.7                          -1.3      -LA        9.3
cmm Nadaol Skv1                        22L1      16.1      17.1      23.                           -1.6      -4.5      14.3
As ot  of GoD
(At O,U.t rMudz  Prim)
1Uh        me (catiu    int)                              1970     1975    1979   198wX      1/x 
OGZt Rm                                                   16.6     19.8    20.8    20.1    I8.9    21.2
ogm  &qadmo                                               14.4     15.8    17.6    19.8    2.2    23.
wp2m (W) or  lftdt C-)                                     2.2      4.0     3.2     0.3   -1.4    4.2
Qpfal F.qi.dSa.a                                           2.6      3J      3.7     4.1      3.5     3.4
F:z d  Wt)                                                0.4    -0.2       0.5     3.9      4.9     7.6
Ot   1 i                          1975-W   1980D45 1965.90
or &=md Ro  (2)                     7.0      0.5     7.3
W Piwr Czd  Ge.ch fbr  ()           3.0    -1.9      5.0
OMD  ampdi GemCdh Raw CZ)    6.5             -       -
EOP.                                3.3     2D.7     3.0
lAzn.1.  Ri      r SAte             0.0      0.5     0.4
IWr EnlFty                        -0.2    -24        1.4
/a At I              t  ;         -o  e     t futwr cat ad ill DOt uI    t Siiladm ro of  inet itrct tm   ad ._ .
t 1975-60 emtm. we f  sm. iujm ;  tm     for  uldequw_t emu im  for ft.d _m t. tE  d_I.   In- isto                    d       In a   mi.
T7  Poj.td y      at 
7f 19o0.2 incide       oin _An ums  offacad daeugi de             y h.ipt ad eI    t          e fmb, - tU  r tn11u_ mu to the fadml ep1m.
21. 1986



- 29 -                                                                            TUCf
AZU. - uMA~6L ium ,
_oe
UN1 OI1iA Mt                                              &aul OCAtlm.hRd3     ) - (at cmstmt 1970 prio=)Ld
O,,,t Prima
Indicator                      (1964)                                Actual                                                        Projected
1975     190w    1963         18         193       19114      N5        198S       1967      19e8       199       1990
11-am Trak
1h_dm  tairta                    V.00            23.9      21.2       9.9  -L     O        2.5       24.1        2.6       -4.0        5.4       3.4        2.3       5.3
PrimqP                          10.357          30.7      20.4      46.8     -30.1        14.3      3L         24.5       -3.4        8.2       3.6        3.6       3.6
t-Ufatg                         16.6.8           0.0      22.5      90.6       7.4        43.5      26.3        15.5       0.7        3.6       3.2        1.5       6.6
I     _dwU. !prt                13,916          -15.0       1.4      -9.4     -2.3        -15.9      -L2         4.8       22.0        1.5      10.7        Li        9.7
Fad & _mmr ads                  1.538           8.2      13.2    -5fJ        -1.2        -8.1      -2.0        3.0      109.0      -43.6       6.2        7.7       6.7
pzn1a                          6.856           -3.8      4.8      -5A.0      -6         -10.6    -13.7       -18.7       -2.3       11.3       L6         2.8      9.9
mdimry aud   dpurt              2.151           9.8       6.4     -6.9      -32.2       -13.0       L4         16.5      37.3       18.4       15.6      14.2      11.6
Othm                            3.361         -30.6      -22        3.8    -20.3        -W.3       20.9        9.0       28.0       10.9       10.1       9.4       A6
Prio
3qiatPrieIift                                      m        147        128       114         97        100        97        IC         1C8       116   1     27       139
XqcctPrtPmiz                                       71       125        138       152        143       10         99         94   98             10         112      120
dmof TrJ I.I c                                    125        1         93         75        86         100        98        112        110       111        113       116
Cmpotica of Nb*idla Tob (XC                                          go Au.t Ice!ma (2)
(at aiwt   Prim)                                         (at mtut 3970 prlm)/d
1975       19S0       1985       1990                           1975.)   190-85    1965.90
10.o      3.LO       10.0       30L0.                            5.8       11.0        3.2
P{l-TL"                               62.7       "8         41.2      41.2                              1.1       8.6        3.6
=mEmturmb                              37.3      552        58.8       5L8                             18.2 /a    23.2       3.0
Iqia                                    300.0     100.0      300.0 o     IO.0                           -1.4       -2.7       10.4
lad ad Omumr comb                      9.8       11.1       12.0       10.8                            17.5     - 4.5        7.9
IetW_m                                25.4       4.4        42.1      36.5                             4.3       -7.3        6.4
3zny ad Bpmmt                         26.5       15.4       19.2  2BD.3                                 7.5      -3.4       18.2
Odom                                  31.3       29.1       26.7       2.64                            -1.9      -3.1        9.9
Sqm  ofli    ith                 Sum of       idth           SWm  of trrdc wth Oll
b           aUtria  antrim  Ci)  kvdqita  rmurm  (2)           bpdq  C"Odsm M
Dirnum  of Se                        1975     1910    1983          1975      1960    1983          1975     190    1993
DMPOM                              70.2     57.3    58.            235      25.5    23.9           2.8     10.1      68
@@M                              67.3      41.3    37.1           8.7      15.8    17.7          21.1     4131    41.6
/a Fo tm pdrd 1961-1590.%). Pdiby Pz I - iudz     d-proel giob pho.  r
qb  R   the paria  37-1970. hmauxm incb  odum giu.
hd PFjacrsdiqtn  d               am  at  l984 pdoz .
Mharc 21. 1916



-10-
(CNN RI 111330 at tAnoot PrIGm)
Popollisi&8      129.1 Million (o*d-3193)
MP PUT DPILtai U5S3.690 119132
amoung of  laft12nJumae    -1.102    -12,104    -11.1ff   -16,167              -.,210         263      -09       -1.131       -3m       1.021     -1.161        -711
gqRtpe o. at ogdg                    5.010     20,132     22.293     20,313     23,999      21.003     23,059     27,262     21,393     21.063     36,932     62.322
imports or Saga                     12.210     22.911     22,092     39,395     a 31.429    I32.910    12.1ff     a 31.356    G.  11,11  9026      22,531    23,399
mat Flactor loggo                   -1,123     -0.121     -9, 321    -33,920    -30,33 t3   -10.999    -31.420    -33,133   -33,233    -uI.s.    -i:,ma1   -m2,is
(ot .11th ltat.ogl ppa""t        (2,0423    (0.3232    (1,9163    (9.3263    (3.6712    (9.4112  (9.2333        (1,1760)    (9,0321    (9,2192    (9.199"   (953563
an HAL? dolt)
gat ggo-Pagtar loyvlgog             -3,629     -2,32*     -2,502     -239W    -2,601       -31634    -3.719       -2i12      -2,813     -,sn7      -4 zu      -S,an1
NorTrtgansorm                             1I         320        333       -Ia         to        312         ISO          a          0          0          0           0
Cargot Acegoot  otgommg               -0,099    -12.631    -33,000    '1.16,17    -6,362         2317      469      -3.101      .406    -3,021       -3.633       -613
Dltoct Priwata Igongtogot                392      3.323      3,153        993         606      3,070        I93        192        619      1,502       1.241      1,621
HILT Loaa long)                        4,330      4.693      8,030       1,699      1,222      6,23         39 43               2,926" 303  2,639     4,51a       2.&9
Snag *ohgaroggta                    (09,1633   (33.23132   (30.0132    1.16,323   (10,9023    16.093   30.021     i&,233     30,220     371,23      38.328     32.060
lmortlmotta,                        (2.35)2    (6,1120)   (1,393)    (1,436)    ( 2.1193kL  1,830       3,13?     12,010      1.3,02     32,452     36,000O    36,023
Orogiltma Loaga hhaad (gag)             -I90        -21       -923       -194         322       336         4110   -2,630      -3,849     -2,071     -2.138    -2,070
othat Capital (lootodios fonto
ood gogia"Ioaj                        '.1    33   2.612    2,229      2,100           -3.93  2632      -.3,o9        S39       -son       063      '543       -4130
Oh.aq to Io-ono ( Infiatno
toeraaas2                            3,225      2,239       -969      4,333         26    -1,021         -431      -114       -263        -939       -992     -t.246
toton..ttool fcoomag  I                5139       0,932      2,203      1,220       2,737    33.96       32.621     32,201    132.536     36,516     21,333      30,135
(o  fhil ickgld)                        So      3,362        1DS         03    21 0?.0..                 0.0.       0.0.       0.0.       D.c.       0...       0.0,
booangm H- tha or Imparta (GSF)            2.2        2.0        3.1         3.6        2.2       51.2       61.9        .1.        1.0        0.9        0.6         3.91
fftotoal Co1tta! and hot
SGag Ull."agatot                       0,932     11313.2    34,063      14,962     30,902     30.093     30,053     30,232     30,220    31.322      35,3128     11,000
Off tele1 Ortcot                      -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          ----
Coooocanomat La.,,.                    302         to         39       3too-                             -          -          -                        
Othar                                 Is         2I                                                                                                   
gao-Caoccaigo1 Loana                 0.830     13,294     31,020     11.802      30,693     16,.08     20,033     10,2)2     30.220     31,122     15,126    31.660
offticial Import brdita              333        632        ff1         A        1  362 359  ,0        3, 230     1,200      3.100      3,296       1.200      1.062
I=3                                  220        362        339        022      3,206      3,296         19O      3,409      3.712      3,529      1.51"       1,853
Othat fihtllteta.                    339        lll        I 355 30   23          231        269         "   239    22        233         g1        2713       623
Priln'tc                           6.320     10.313     36.562      33,001     3,273      33.220      .3,22     321331    31,010      132,015    141,621     11,712
Eataroal Dolt
DOlt Outotaoftg mad Vtohazd         23.33      30,999     04.02)     72,024     19,330     35,0*21    "3.01       91,099     96,22      98,293     o.3 102,29  0299
Pobllcfllhltcly COrantaad         132,69     29,39      66,333    689331    36,003       09,201      9.031      91,199     96,22      93,291    302,259    103.98
Petoota 1.-oo-orgoaoad             9.59      20,16603   19,192     23.232     2I,512      39.220     0.0         0,.       0.0        0.0       0.0         0.
Il,1dlohanod Dolt                    2,710     13,3251    32,043      14.222     22,931     33.121     12,806     16,92]    15,432      35,536     11,310      32,131
IBM o93053 (23
1138 daharrono-ticltaalrgon
dlzohgtoooota               3.15       2.2        2.4        6.2        33.3       6.9         1.4        3,0       301  30.7        10.     2  30.  10.
1Km   osOitttol 10                       6.1        2.1        1,0        3.1        4.0        4.3        4.3         3.1        0.1        1.0        3.2        5,1
iS  Dlgt -catotcetol at1m sa-ico        2.5        2.3        2.1        2.2        4.2         I..       4.3         4.0        6.1        3.1        0.0        7.1
malt Ionca
Totl 8aolnca Pagootl  3r .170                 13.143      35,232     30,523     23,206    20.913      39,013    21,414      221.32     21,122     22,039      223117
Iotgraotfr                         3.4911     1,323      7,928      9,234      1,412      9,663      9,3132      5,66       9,022      1,219      9,599      9.5.36
Pqyamto 0 2 Khpouoc (OWE)               20.3       10.3       00.0       11.1       46.0ff    12.2         09.2       12.1       10.0       03.6       59.3       53.1
Anataj Ittetooc &.toe @0 o
Coagotood Lan  CZ) fe                     3.1       12.2       15.1       12,1        33.4       33.9        9.   1.6   .          9.2        9.2        9.2        9.0
S(flcoli                                 6.a        9.3       30.8       30.9        30.       0..         00          ,.        00.        00          ..        00
Frilat.  morc.                           .9      1.0  336      6.2       12.3        13,1        ..        0..        00         00          ..         ..        00
oangraga IototIty of Kw.
DoarcKatd Logan (Toor.) Ic90                         91         9.1       30.9        92         9.6        10.3       33.0       33.0       33.1       33.3       *3.1
OfficIal                                38,6       12.          26       *.           21       00           ,.        00          ..        00           ..       00
Ptt.ate Soorca                           0.9        5.1        9.0       30.2        8.6        ..         00          ..        0..        00          .,        00
PIbtwtlt, Stroctoro, of Polite Dolt Obtotoodl
Hot.rttlca duo aithia, 3 yoar.6.
Howtotlco duo aitm   10 onato                                 92.
Iototat Sttotoro of Palt Sototaodilo
1=aro  duo oltbo oba 0 tot yost                              -.0
ft      wtoclgd"ai39d as joUst valott. adjootoost
boitaroct asd "nr"tionlon, - .to   and long T.ra dolt.
; Falue Dolt coly fot 1973.
ldoonyarciettaatt, actoally paid.
- Rt anolabl ,                                                                                                                         Hatch 23, 1966



- 31 -
ANEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPAIONS IN BRAZIL
A. S aU   STTDEMNT OF LOAI1
(As of March 31, 1985)
Aanmt less  Undis-
Loan    Year            Borrower                    ose         Cancellations  bured
(US$ Mllion)
Seventy two loans fully disbursed                                  3,107.7.
1195     1976  Brazil                          Rural Development      12.0        1.3
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry         83.0        25.9
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais           aural Development     42.0         1.4
1452     1977  Brazil                          Education              32.0        7.1
1488     1977  Brazil                         Rural Development       11.0        2.3
1525     1978 Banco Nscional da Habitecao      Sewerage              110.0      57.5
1537     1978  Brazil                         Rural Development      24.0        13.2
1538     1978  LETRBOBRAS                      Power                 130.0       15.8
1557     1978 Brazil                          Roads                  114.0       17.3
1568     1978  Brazil                         Agric. Extension       100.0       16.4
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development      37.0        15.0
1654     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sites and Services    93.0         .6
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Babitacao    Water and Sewerage    100.0        13.2
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development     26.0        16.3
1720     1979  Brazil                         Urban Development      70.0       26.6
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                 109.0       26.7
1728     1979  Brazil                         Rural Development      40.0       22.5
1729     1979 Brazil ,rrigation                                      28.0       .4.7
1730-5   1979  Braril                         Roads                  110.0       25.7
1822-5  1980 Brazil/lNDE                      Pollution Control      34.0        30.4
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Babitacao     Water Supply           130.0       4.3
1824     1980 C(EE                             Pbwer                 114.0       73.2
1839     1980  Brazil                         Urban Transport        159.0      37.9
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitaco      Water Supply           139.0      32.9
1867     1980  Brazil                         Education              32.0        18.1
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development     63.0       51.5
1895     1980 ELErROSEL                       Power                  125.0      87.9
1924     1981  Brazil                         Rural Development      56.0       23.9
1939    1981 ELETIRBRAS                       Power                  54.0       43.4
1965     1981 EBrU                            Urbhm Transport        90.0       57.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply          180.0      108.0
1989     1981  Brazil                         Alcohol Development  250.0        87.0
2015     1981  Brazil                         Agriculture            29.0       16.6
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture           60.0        17.9
2060     1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            67.0        31.4



-32-
AMREZ II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMHARY STA1FEMKW OF OANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan 1  Year           Borrower                  Purpose      Cancellations bursed
(US$ Millions)
2061    1982 Brazil                          Health                 13.0       6.0
2062    1982 Brazil                          Highways              240.0      63.7
2116    1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       15.1
2138    1982 ELETROBRAS                      Power                 182.7      146.4
2163    1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       18.6
2170    1982 Brazil                          Urban Developent    123.9        105.0
2177    1982 Brazil                          Rural Development      42.7      31.7
2193    1982 Brazil                          Urban Development       8.9       4.8
2196    1982 CVRD                             Iron Ore             304.5      117.2
2224    1982 Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0      129.0
2225    1982 lIES                                     nt Baikiug   220.0       9.5
2249    1983 Banco Nacional da Babitacao    Water Supply           302.3     210.0
2268    1983 Brzil                           Agro-Industries       400.0     374.0
2269    1983 Brazil                          Rural Develont         67.8      60.0
2343    1983 Brazil                          Urban Developmnt       52.7      48.1
2347    1983 Brazil                          Export Development   352.0        1.4
2348    1983 Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0       6.0
2353    1983  Brazil                         Agriculture            65.2      61.0
1729-1  1983 Brazil                          Agriculture             7.7       7.7
2060-1  1983 Brazil                          Agriculture            22.8      22.7
2364    1983 Eletrobras                      Power                 250.6     227.5
2365    1983 Eletrobras                      Power                 222.8      190.5
2366    1983 Brazil                          Education              20.0       17.4
2412    1984 Brazil                           Educatio              40.0      36.9
2446    1984 Brazil                           Federal Highway      210.0      189.7
2447/1  1984 State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5      55.5
24487   1984 State of Sao Paulo              Health Studies          2.0       2.0
248871   1985 Brazil                         Development Bading  300.0       300.0
24897   1985 Brazil                          Education              72.o      72.0
Total                                             9,866.7 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Baik              1,734.8
Total now outstanding                             8,131.9
Amount sold                            45.8
Of which has been repaid             45.8           0.0
Total nOW beld by Baik                            8,131.9
Total undisbursed                                            3,560.3
/1 Not yet effective.
7T No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report
on all Pank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Exeutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
bd 3 o 3
IL  umInr   DC                  of m   _   d elrd  31, 19R )
--I                                                                                          l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A aWttaLS 4114li
vur                                    0 bIIgea                                    !)padhaium                     1mm       lqsLr    Titls
IS57        S        l_  do Imil Oa. de83artrid*4k                             3aculnl ipdpit                       2.00               2.00
U958                O1c,ft. S. A.8 t    k * 1ga                                 mupai a l"r                          L2D        -       I.20
1956                D. L. R. P'aIa  do ftuL4 S. A.                              A 'm         ban                     0.A5       -       0.45
1958                W6lp0,udad db O1J.l L A. - Ladmua a  do                     Now Vdd                              245       -        2.45
19s9        Q     _      dm 1In    de Mm= ftMW    L, S A.                               I.D1                                    -       L.2
1959                Qgaa 1m. Uo A.                                              IaI4                                 4.00       -       4.00
19I6/158/1972       Aca   Mam. S. A.                                           SOO  l                               6L.       L3       9.9
1SaISS              kpa a CuIui C.buAmm. L A.                                   lWdp aid hr                          3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972         ugmhzaJ. L A. - 1admgz  a Ca  rcd   do rtnam                  Faiillmm                             L22       3.03    115
1959                btrqdm1_ UnAi, S. A.                                        lu                                   5.50      2         36
1910                Ibllol_fin. S. A. 1Autda a Ado                              F  t    _m1,                         5.50     8LII      6.36
1971               CAdmn. L A. luda a I_wio                                     1brem1a                              4.60      I*/."    L00
1971                Rio CDk - Cmpds de  uem dil ldRp                                                                 4.3        -       4.9D
19/975/1961            1da 4k Cleo Idil dB 33mm                                    t                               169.14      e.70   175.8
1,73/74/7/M/81 5   Qida U&D4km  a, Q4O am  - a""                                Sbd                                 76.97     1SZ7    9L24
1973               atplDl lkrbt  ta1z Imd - KW"                                 (hpinl lkzbt Unmlqpnt                5.00      -        5.00
1973/1978A9         4p do nwmoliv           k dbe _mm Iimoms - M1, S. A.   6.1 111  and Rft                         85.00      L74 5 3174
1974                ln&      Ilu L Vj , S. A. Lmuibm aD  kdurc al b*dpin                                             L00       -       e.W
1974                b1am  de Th6lk Uujm. S. A.                                  T1                                  31.O0      -      310LW
1975/1979          apu'm  h I .      trlm  LeLd.                                0.Ubie t&                            L0.18     .19     7.37
1975                 dtm  lba1. S. A.                       _bedniinla                                              IO.       -       I0.W
197b                kitib k*Sta -  11 do Ibdmt. S. A.                            lmilm                               045       I.W     7.45
1976/19D           lac    S. A.      1 0.tW r        Ibm=t                     Tniijm                              10.2D      -       1IL20
1977               as S. A. ft&s Ihinwcm                                        km. aid Alam    r                   2060D      -       206W
1977               Illo Ro do Ibgta S. A.                                                                           15.I0      -       150A
1978                 Q3  4l SkrsWs S. A.                                        irmA . Sm                            L38      3.00    1L38
1979                 elIe do ee I1 lbc~  a Veloan, S. A.                        moor V1dli                          .Wm        5.27    65.27
19D                  Ii & Eamin  S. A. -1511on oi& 0mara                                                             2W        -       LO 0
19100Omob do PA= S/A -    -I_m  - lg.rlaah. kImftda
a Cm       4k 01uB  zmm.                                 bhbG                                 5.50      LW       4.50
19D                ViflUam   uTxlmt 9 o %U S. A. - V1fllt  mg aid SS.0                                                         -
1900                FM- liqdda kM al dek bopreiwdi                             Ohidc1a aid kazrdiir 1os        d      0       20       17.00
390                 Dailada Mm.rt S. A.                                         Oniinla and kcodnila                 -        0.25     0.25
1981                &.tw Amm_d  Qd-di e Ifinlm S/A                             rbzt:12.m                            35.00     00    61.0
191D                Road ,uqumj                                                  onl  aiAd 1atdnimla                43.00     5.00    46O0
1911                -d37pr                                                     1Iq ad Oqtin  luk6.                   -        L50      L50
1981                 Crpda lmidm de Appmda -   Cid aid Fak  kma1q                                                    5.50     3.00      5so
19S0                Made                                                       C 1, aid beI_1nxhn                   46.00     4.W     5.00
198                 aZW CAM                             Qt and caEt . 1ma Einaj                                     40.       5.00    45.0
1i9Q                 na1zf  S. A.                         Ibw Qvil Mlt                                              300       0.45    30.45
191o                Ch Rl_qpain de lhrzdk          (Wm )                        Itqr 0.PiZ1 I t                      -         .03      .03
191D                KA  Fd       m                                              Fod aFdooad M                       D=l 100   -        13.W
1        9G1               Qai& da Amp  (E)                                     Ran                                  6.10     -    6 .10
196                 PISA - lapel de Si    S.A.                                  gIp  bmr 1       um                 60.0      5.W17    65.17
191g                Sajwrv.l rai ad road kaindq                                                                      3.0      LSO      5.50
1910               CO1G                                                               aid t m    m 'Ik11inaJ        35.0      -       35W
198i                Cdm Aloodin Mmu                                             am1a ad bUodniin                    2D.00     4.00    24.00
19115      0          im da 0d1I                                                Onle1a ad Iet iN1a                   L75   I.3         4.55
TQl aSL ________                                                                      51.97    9M.4  A13041
1m  CAmldom, Tardyadm.   1             ad SIm                                         61679     15.3   676.2
1Tul    I       t Am d by IPC                                                         27.18 3     .31   3.49
lAra Uadmba.id                                                                         71.39     ;L56    g5.9
Ap1 15, 1



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Supplementary Project DataiSheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project       : 9 months
(b)  Agency which Prepared Project       : EMBRATER
(c)  Initial Request for Bank Financing : July 1984
(d)  Departure of Identification Mission:  November 1984
Ce) Departure of Appraisal Mission       : August 1985
(f)  Completion of Negotiations          : March 1986
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness       : June 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Condition of Effectivpness
Allocation of budgetary resources to meet counterpart funding
requirements of the project for the first year of project
implementation (para. 58).
Conditions of Disbursement for Each Participating State/Territory
(a) Signature of contracts satisfactory to the Bank among the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, EMBRATER, and each of the
States/Territories and the EMBRATERs/ASTERs, setting forth the
terms and conditions for the implementation of the project
(para. 54)
(b)  Approval by EMBRATER of the annual operating plan (POA) of each
EMATER or ASTER for the first year of project implementation
(para. 56).



- 35 -
ANMNE III
Page 2 of 2
Other Special Conditions
Assurances were received from the Borrower at negotiations that:
(a) the project would participate in the Central Bank system for
advancing project counterpart funds (para. 66); and,
(b) the auditing arrangements would be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 67).
Assurances were received from EKBRATER at negotiations that it would:
(a)  cause each ENATER and ASTER to designate a Project Coordinator to
coordinate project implementation with EMBIATERIs project
coordination unit (para. 54);
(b) submit to the Bank for review, by September 30 of each year, the
guidelines concerning the preparation by the EMATERs and ASTERs
of their annual POAs for the following year (para. 54);
(c) submit to the Bank for review, by November 30 of each year, the
POAs of the EKATEsR/ASTERs for the following year (para. 54);
(d) initiate the study on the financing of SIBRA2ZR by June 30, 1986,
and present the results of the study to the Bank for review by
December 31, 1986 (para. 55); and
(e) carry out, jointly with the Bank, a aid-term review of the
project by December 31, 1989, or when 50% (US$77.5 illion) of
the loan has been disbursed, whichever is earlier (para. 68).



IBRD 19375
(V E N E Z U E L A   ~e '                    (FRENC -l                   PROJECTX(Constructed)
(VENEZUELA                       1SURlNAME;eUIANAS_.-_,                   0  STATE OFFICES
v                                          A TRAINING OFFICES
C O0LO0 M   B I A                                     %f                                           LOCAL OFFICES (Number of officesin state)
PROJECT U (To be constiructed)
0* STATE OFFICES
--        X v  .' .r                 ,         tTRAINING OFFICES 
-      , a            SI .  i17  w    WR  } (LOCAL OFFICES(Number of offieos In state)f
ra - - -             A TI A ANT  iC
/    -             K                  ,..i    -      -i.. IAA,4OTALZ                                                                C' .  A NV
A r 'E 00 N-IrE
A~~~~~JA
i ~ .0 1lEHD 4\    I'  V                                               -                                                                 I-  
P E R U                                                  k  8.- 
\  )ras^8pe}..               - @.                                                  @Wa
': 'L                                                                         :                        AB
~~~~~- ~~~~~~EMB OF
-  :-  L -::  V :::-'- IA\  t   >  bX                 *                I    -
;-   i  _--r-~i   L  _   r   aao-  - *E3  *r3niiA   A    I*    r I C
2?r
OE-          - A-NIE                        \PARAGUAY                ,
HiL                                       AAG@~
CUOIi o                             BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIOC' I PROJECT
-                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOIIANCI
*  ', BuraIL  ./               A R G E N T I.2" A /                           @
t -%@Av|s   *                                    0   ^XT
s 7AMEItIC                                                                                 ___,__ ____{w    *'BfMC
-~~~~~~~         '-'N       A                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sr,%T CAPITAL
.a,                      -....'...-                                                           W     |            - S   STAT .sJNDAK,S
I   CC VAN.  -~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~                                 OL~~ES                   - '. -  MMATEUIONAL ftJBUAAhS
URUGUAY  ' -
NOVEMBER 1985



