Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16687
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Loan 2679-BR)
June 13, 1997
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit:' Brazilian Cruzado (Cz$)
Rate at Appraisal:  US$1 =       Cz$ 13.80
Cz$1 =       US$0.072464
Cz$1 million= US$72,464
Rate at Completion:   US$1 =      R$0.968
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASTER            Agency for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (Territorial)
EMATER           State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
EMBRAPA          Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
EMBRATER         Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
FG               Federal Government
[CR              Implementation Completion Report
IERR             Internal Economic Rate of Return
INCRA            National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform
MAARA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOP              Memorandum of the President
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP             Northeast Rural Development Program
POA              Annual Operating Plan
RPAP             Rural Poverty Alleviation Program
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SDR              Secretariat for Rural Development (of MAARA)
SIBRATER         National System for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
SOE              Statement of Expenditure
SUDENE           Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
A new currency, the Cruzado, was introduced in 1986, followed by another new currency, the Real, in
1994
Vice President     :  Shahid Javed Burki
Director           :  Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief     :  Constance Bernard
Staff Member       :  Anna Roumani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION H PROJECT
(Loan 2679-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
PREFACE .....................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................                                                   i
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...................................................1
A. Background ....................................................I
B. Project Objectives, Components and Design ..........................                  ...........................I
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................................4
D. The Implementation Record .....................................................8
E. Use of Consultants ....................................................                                       15
F.  Project Sustainability and Future Operations ....................................................            15
G. Bank Performance  ....................................................                                        15
H. Borrower Performance .................................................... 17
I.  Assessment of Outcome ....................................................                                   19
J.  Main Findings and Lessons Leamed ....................................................                        19
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Sununiary of Assessments .22
Table 2. Related Bank Loans .24
Table 3.   Project Timetable                                                                                     24
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .25
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                                             25
Table 6. Studies Included in the Project .26
Table 7. Project Costs and Financing .27
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants .28
Table 9. Project Costs and Benefits .32
Table 10.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................                     32
Table  11.  Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                        33
Table 12.  Application of Resources by State and Expense Category .................................. 34
Table 13.  Project Costs by State and Expense Category .................................................... 35
Table 14.  Beneficiaries, Physical Structure and Extension Personnel ................................. 36
Table 15. Yields of Principal Small Farn Commodities .. ................................................ 36
APPENDIX  I:            Borrower Contribution to ICR ....................................................              37
MAP:                    IBRD No. 19375
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZEL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
(Loan 2679-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
Extension II Project, for which Loan 2679-BR in the amount of US$155.0 million was
approved by the Board on April 22, 1986 and became effective on October 8, 1986.
2.    The Closing Date was extended by a total of 18 months (to December 31, 1995),
simultaneously with partial cancellation of US$55.0 million, on December 29, 1994. The
Loan closed on December 31, 1995. Total disbursements were US$92.9 million and final
disbursement took place on May 7, 1996. A Loan balance of US$7.05 million was
canceled on May 13, 1996.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Anna Roumani of the Natural Resources, Environment
and Rural Poverty Operations Division, Department I (LAI ER) of the Latin America and
Caribbean Region (LAC) in collaboration with Raimundo Caminha of the Bank's Recife
Office. The ICR was reviewed by Constance Bernard, Chief, LAIER; Luis Coirolo,
Brazil Portfolio Manager, LA1ER; Michael Carroll (LAIER); and Orville Grimes,
Projects Adviser, Country Department I.
4.    The ICR is based on material in the project file and discussions with Bank staff and
consultants who worked on the project. A brief Borrower Completion Report prepared
by the Ministry of Agriculture, is on file and available in the LAC Information Services
Center.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Loan 2679-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Agricultural Extension II Project followed closely upon its predecessor
(Agricultural Extension Project, Loan 1568-BR) which was found by its Project
Completion Report (PCR) to have contributed substantially to the strengthening and
unification of extension services nationwide, with positive impact on the National System
for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (SIBRATER). The second project was
designed to consolidate progress already achieved and to expand extension coverage in
line with Government's long-term goals of stronger extension institutions and effective
delivery of extension services to all farmers, especially in the less-developed North,
Northeast and Center-West.
Project Objectives
2.    The project sought to increase the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of
SIBRATER through six components: (i) strengthening the Federal and State coordinating
and implementing agencies making up that system; (ii) expanding and improving field
extension services; (iii) changing the extension methodology, from contacts with individual
farmers, to serving groups; (iv) intensifying essential linkages between farmers, extension
and research programs; (v) providing training, technical assistance and studies; and (vi)
expanding social extension, community development services and the role and
participation of women. Total project cost was estimated at US$349.1 million including
contingencies, with a Bank Loan of US$155.0 million.
3.    The project was designed to achieve its objectives through a nationwide physical
build-up of vehicles, equipment and infrastructure, supported by training programs,
technical assistance to EMBRATER to upgrade its administrative and other functions, and
studies. The project had a total target population of 1.9 million: reaching 700,000 farms
not previously receiving extension services, and upgrading services to the 1.2 million
farms already covered. Some 150,000 of these same families would also receive social
extension. About 60% of project financing was targeted to the under-developed Northern
and Center-West regions and 40% to the more advanced South and Southeast.
Considerable effort was made to reflect Bank lessons of experience in project design.
4.    However, consonant with the Brazilian political economy of the mid-1980s, the
project was highly centralized, with the Federal Government (FG) responsible for



- iv -
technical and financial support to the state extension services, the allocation of counterpart
funding, and the setting of priorities, methodologies, programs and staffing based on a
single uniform plan. The project was also burdened with the recurrent cost financing of
some 3,600 extension personnel hired under the first project. Project design in key
respects resulted from obligations created under the first project, including the need to
provide transport and equipment for those new personnel. While the pre-negotiations
meeting with the federal Government foreshadowed a potential mismatch between project
priorities and counterpart funding, actual Federal and State counterpart funding
availability was exceptionally good in the first and second years, meeting or exceeding
appraisal estimates. It deteriorated thereafter under the stress of repeated fiscal and
macro-economic crises, and the profound changes resulting from a new Federal
Constitution in 1988 which re-defined the relationship between the Federal Government
and the States.
5.    The SAR correctly listed institutional coordination, availability of appropriate new
production packages and their acceptability to farmers, and delays in counterpart funding
as key project risks.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project had a turbulent history but many states managed to make headway
under difficult conditions. All 26 participating states, and the Federal District (Brasilia),
benefited from project-financed investments in the categories of expenditure called for in
the Loan Agreement. The project is rated Satisfactory overall, reflecting the substantial
achievement of its development objectives with a reasonable degree of sustainability.
There were significant regional differences in outcome.
7.    Project-supported extension services reached about 2.1 million beneficiaries (small
and medium producers, rural women and youth), about 200,000 more than estimated at
appraisal (and almost a million more than were already covered by SIBRATER at
appraisal) and at considerably lower cost, given that the Loan was only 60% disbursed.
Full disbursement would presumably have resulted in even greater coverage. This result
reflects, inter alia, the successful transition to the more efficient group extension
methodology and the rapid improvements in coverage made possible by better
transportation and equipment, financed by the Loan. In Southern states, the project
boosted extension services which were already comparatively good. State EMATERs
were reorganized, and project-financed training centers, vehicles and communications and
audio-visual equipment are operational and providing good services to farmers. The
improved productivity of Southern small farmers in basic foods in recent years is
attributed directly to the presence of extension agents in the communities, an approach
fostered by the project.
8.    Project resources reached the Northern state EMATERs in an equitable fashion
and were expended for the purposes/categories intended. However, the impact of these
expenditures was profoundly affected by these states' fiscal predicament, institutional
factors, excessive political interference in the EMATERs and general lack of political



- v -
support for extension. Nevertheless, the EMATERs in Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do
Norte and Paraiba undertook deep reforms in their extension services, supported by
project financing for technical assistance, administrative modernization and training.
Project support equipped these same EMATERs and others in Ceara and Alagoas to
contribute directly to the reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in
their states, through the provision of technical assistance to rural communities. Overall
performance in the Northern states improved markedly in the final year.
9.    A combination of factors severely affected project implementation. First, fiscal
and macro-economic crises disrupted the flow and timeliness of counterpart funding which
in turn had a damaging effect on annual project budgets and work programs, and the
credibility and morale of extension services. Second, further disrupting project
implementation were the administrative reforms commencing with OperaVdo Desmonte (a
federal program to dismantle selected federal agencies/institutions) which followed the
constitutional changes of 1988. This period of momentous political, economic and social
change in Brazil tended to overshadow the concerns of individual projects but more
importantly, made the centralized project design redundant. The Federal Government
(FG) shied away from either proposing project cancellation or supporting attempts at
reformulation, and instead progressively withdrew its financial support for the project.
Third, administrative reforms also caused responsibility for the project to change agencies
several times. The Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMBRATER) was abolished in 1991 and the project was passed to the Brazilian
Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA); the project was transferred again in
1993 to the Ministry of Agriculture (MAARA). The disruptive effects on the project (in
combination with scarce counterpart funds) were serious. (It should be noted however,
that while the abolition of EMBRATER created difficulties for the project, the Bank
supported this action on efficiency and other grounds). Reformulation of the project was
attempted several times but collapsed each time. Closure of the project merited greater
attention, especially in view of the failure to reformulate.
10.   Sustainability and Future Operations. Sustainability appears likely in some
states which performed well, while in other states it is uncertain. No arrangements were
made for the future operations of the project (none were required under project design).
Sustainability of services overall depends on state policies and budgetary support for
extension and on clearer definition of the Federal Government's role in extension.
11.   Project Costs, Financing and Timetables. The total project cost was US$194.6
million compared to US$349.1 million estimated at appraisal. Bank Loan funds
represented US$92.9 million, and the Federal and State Governments provided US$50.9
million and US$50.8 million, respectively. The project was implemented over 10.1 years,
compared to the planned eight.
12.   Loan Covenants. The more important Loan covenants were: (i) the Borrower's
obligation to support and fund implementation of the project by EMBRATER (and
subsequently EMBRAPA and MAARA -- Section 3.01); (ii) counterpart funding
obligations (Section 3.02); and auditing (4.01 (i)-(iv)). In addition, the Project Agreement



- Vi -
called for a Mid-Term Review (Section 2.09); and set down management, operational and
financial controls covenants for EMBRATER (Sections 3.01 and 4.01). As described in
the body of this report, compliance was deficient in key respects.
Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
13.   Bank. The Bank's preparation and appraisal of this project was satisfactory. The
project was justified and a strong effort was made to reflect the best of past experience in
project design. While it is acknowledged that there were few other options immediately
available at the time -- co-financing, private sector involvement, decentralized
management and funding of extension were (and remain), complex issues and were
politically difficult to introduce in that period -- financing the recurrent costs of staff built
up under Ln. 1568-BR burdened its successor without shielding extension personnel from
the impact of severe fiscal shortages. The diversification of funding for extension, a study
requested by senior Bank management coincident with its approving the project's
financing of salaries, thus took on special significance.
14.   The Bank's performance during implementation may be faulted for its lack of
decisiveness and follow-up, even acknowledging the difficult funding and institutional
context. There was no formal evaluation of the actual and potential impact on the project
of institutional, constitutional and legal changes. The formal, time-bound Mid-Term
Review called for in the Loan Agreement did not occur as planned, and there is debate
about whether it occurred at all. The absence of a mechanism in the Bank for coming to
quick closure on reformulation, the repeated and protracted attempts to reformulate, and
the frustrating conditions in the country, should have prompted rapid, decisive action.
Significant goals at appraisal -- defining alternative funding for extension services and
establishing M&E -- were not followed up. Similarly the regional evaluation studies
intended to upgrade ex-post evaluation of extension services, evaporated. The Loan and
Project Agreements were not amended to reflect the abolition of EMBRATER and
assumption of responsibility by EMBRAPA, or the subsequent transfer of the project to
MAARA, raising issues of legal and technical accountability for a period exceeding five
years. The Bank was apparently reluctant to consider project suspension or closure (with
hindsight, probably a good thing given the many improvements the project managed to
deliver, despite everything) in response to both specific events and chronic problems,
although it did cancel US$55.0 million of the Loan in 1994 as part of a broad and
successful renovation of the Brazil portfolio.
15.   Formal, routine project supervision was affected by the following: (i) the lack of
human and financial resources for supervision, especially in the 1990s with Bank budget
cuts; (ii) the exceptionally difficult institutional circumstances; (iii) logistical challenges of
supervising a nationwide program; and (iv) the mismatch on occasion between skills
fielded and the diverse types of problems. Nevertheless, scheduled supervision was
supplemented by frequent, opportunistic contacts between Recife and/or Washington staff
and the project agency and state EMATERs, taking advantage of proximity while on other
Bank duties.



- vii -
16.   Borrower. Borrower commitment to this project was steadily eroded by fiscal
and economic problems and political factors, over which individual federal and state
project agencies had little control. Massive changes after 1988 completely altered the
context of project implementation. Transfers of responsibility for the project were imposed
by decree with minimal consultation with the Bank, and the receiving agencies were
neither prepared for, nor wholeheartedly devoted to managing the project, mostly acting
as caretakers unwilling to either implement it as intended or relinquish it. Notably,
EMBRAPA's performance was superior to that of its peers. Technical expertise in
EMBRATER either fled or endured insecure conditions under the transfers to EMBRAPA
and MAARA. Not surprisingly, the institutional memory of the project was minimal by
Closing. Piloting innovations in the final stages was believed infeasible because the
institutional commitment to decentralization, even seven years after the constitutional
changes, continued to waver. In general, most of the states had little concept of
overriding project objectives or their own role in an improved national system, and
political interference in state extension agencies, mostly in the North and Northeast, was
an impediment. The financially-strapped EMATERs were receiving funds from the
Federal Government as part of the decentralization mandate which comrnitted FG to
support them, and were understandably focussed on continuing to purchase the vehicles
and equipment essential to increase coverage and quality.
Project Outcome
17.   The project internal economic rate of return (IERR) estimated at appraisal was
calculated on a national basis at 26% based on assumptions about potential yields,
estimated farmer participation, and development period costs and prices. Institutional
disruptions caused a discontinuity in the collection, flow, consistency and analysis of
information. Lack of reliable data on cost (at the farm level), rates of adoption for
individual products, prices and conversion factors precludes the re-estimation of the
IERR. However, a limited, indicative inference can be made from MAARA end of project
yield data for the crops and activities typical of small and medium farmers (Table 15 and
SAR para 3.27 and Annex 4). It is likely that the economic value of the incremental
production is greater than the economic value of the incremental costs (at the farm level)
because farmers did adopt, to greater or lesser degrees depending on the state, the new
technologies provided by state EMATERs. On the project cost side, investments were
40% less and actual yields greater than estimated at appraisal, therefore the net
incremental value of production was probably sufficient to cover the project's investment
cost to produce an EERR at least equal to the appraisal estimate.
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
18.   Findings. The project exceeded federal and state fiscal and institutional capacity
during a difficult transitional period in Brazil. This could not have been foreseen at
appraisal, although the Bank appreciated the fact that relative state/regional
implementation capacity was not uniform. The project's centralized and bureaucratic
structure ran counter to the new political/administrative model adopted after 1988, but



- viii -
centralized design was entirely consistent with the Federal Government's domination of
the development agenda and arena at the time of appraisal. Following the momentous
changes of 1988, prompt reformulation was imperative to improve the project's ability to
succeed in the new circumstances. This process might have focused selectively on
cheaper, more participatory and sustainable extension services, tailored to state and local
conditions.
19.   Among the practical issues needing resolution prior to or under any new extension
operation are: (i) the development of a strategic vision for extension services, including at
the state level; (ii) whether the municipalization of extension is the best path; (iii) effective
ways of preserving extension's link to the center, i.e., state EMATERs and the FG, in the
interests of quality and innovation; (iv) how to secure the proper funding of decentralized
extension services including resource mobilization and funding mechanisms which draw on
private/beneficiary participation; and (v) how to establish an "ethic" of impact evaluation.
Finally, if farmers are an indeed an important part of the community, experience shows
that they will exert pressure to make the system work.
20.   Lessons Learned. The lessons from this project are the following:
(a)   When a project strategy and/or design is overtaken by political, legal or
economic events, the Bank should promptly undertake the needed changes,
including complete reformulation if necessary, which will enable it to
succeed in the new environment;
(b)   Macroeconomic, fiscal and political conditions are critical arbiters of
project outcome, influencing Borrower commitment, counterpart funding
availability, project incentives and the behavior of institutions. Prolonged
shortages of counterpart funds usually mean that a project has low priority
for government, or exceeds its fiscal capacity;
(c)   Projects of national scope should ensure that: supervision quality can be
maintained; required actions are flexibly tailored to regional/state capacity
and conditions; and, poorly-performing states/regions receive concentrated
attention and possibly special incentives to improve performance;
(d)   Effective M&E integrated into the daily work of extensionists and
extension institutions, and fed into impact and cost-effectiveness analyses,
remains a challenge for SIBRATER. Quality baseline studies should
initiate this process. Monitorable indicators should measure beneficiaries'
production, productivity, income and welfare. The Bank/Borrower
dialogue should promote demand for evaluation results, the institutional
structure of accountability, and information feedback systems for planning
and decision-making. The Bank, as a stakeholder in better data, should
vigorously pursue the implementation of such systems;



- ix -
(e)    Institutional strengthening remains critical to the delivery of better
extension services. It is a longer-term process which often requires, in
addition to better management capacity, changes in institutional policies,
incentives and cultures, areas in which the Bank can provide much greater
guidance. Institutional strengthening should be supported by and coalesce
around a strategic vision of national (and state-level) extension services;
and
(f)    The project validated the Bank's policy of not financing salaries. While a
project should not be faulted for recruiting staff, a follow-on operation
should not have to bear the consequences of the Borrower's inability to
support those personnel.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
(Loan 2679-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The Agricultural Extension II Project followed closely upon an earlier extension
operation (Agricultural Extension Project, Loan 1568-BR) and sought to consolidate
gains2 and expand extension coverage in line with Government's long-term goals of
stronger extension institutions and effective delivery of services to all farmers, especially
in the less-developed North, Northeast and Center-West. Improved extension services
were expected to boost returns to Government's considerable capital investment in
applied agricultural research programs, which were starting to produce results. The
project was consistent with Government's National Development Plan (1986-1989) in
seeking to enhance economic development and bolster the role of agriculture in poverty
alleviation, and with the Bank's country assistance strategy.
2.    Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector. At the time of project appraisal,
the Bank's extensive involvement in agricultural and rural development comprised 33
loans totaling some US$2.0 billion. These included: an agricultural credit loan
(US$303.0 million) and a supplemental financing loan (US$30.5 million) under the Special
Action Program; three agro-industrial loans (totaling US$519.2 million); two livestock
development loans (US$60.5 million); a grain storage operation (US$18.2 million); two
agricultural research loans (US$100.0 million); an agricultural extension operation
(US$100.0 million); the Land Tenure Improvement Project (US$100.0 million); and 21
loans totaling US$794.8 million for various settlement, irrigation and rural development
projects, located principally in the Northeast.
B. Project Objectives, Components and Design
3.    The project sought to increase the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of the
National System for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (SIBRATER) -- a relevant
and necessary objective -- through six components: (i) further strengthening the Federal
and State coordinating and implementing agencies making up that system (US$15.5
2 See Project Completion Report (draft only), December 31, 1986.



-2 -
million, 6% of base cost);3 (ii) expanding and improving field extension services
(US$135.8 million, 50% of base cost); (iii) changing the extension methodology from
contacts with individual farmers to serving groups (US$36.3 million, 13% of base cost);
(iv) intensifying linkages between farmers, extension services, and research programs
(US$11.5 million, 4% of base cost); (v) providing training, technical assistance and studies
(US$47.4 million, 17% of base cost); and (vi) expanding social extension, community
development services and the role and participation of women, building on promising
experiences under the first operation (US$26.1 million, 10% of base cost). Total project
cost was estimated at US$349.1 million including contingencies, with a Bank loan of
US$155.0 million.
4.    Essentially an institutional development project, its objectives would be achieved
through a nationwide build-up of vehicles, equipment and infrastructure, supported by
training programs, extensive technical assistance to EMBRATER to upgrade its
administrative and other functions, and studies.4 Some 650 additional staff would be
hired. The project foresaw better articulation between extension and research
organizations, working to adapt research to farmers' needs and reach them faster, and
maximizing beneficiary coverage and impact. Many project features were the direct result
of Bank-wide experience, including the previous extension project.
5.     SIBRATER's main target was the 4 million small farmers with less than 100 ha.
The project had a total target population of 1.9 million: reaching 700,000 farms not
previously receiving extension services, and upgrading services to the 1.2 million farms
already covered. In addition, social extension would be provided to 150,000 of those
same rural families. About 490,000 or 70% of the incremental beneficiaries would have
incomes below the poverty line (defined as two minimum salaries or about US$310 per
head/year).' Some 60% of project financing was targeted to the under-developed
Northem and Center-West regions, and the remaining 40% directed to the more advanced
South and Southeast.
6.    Consistent with the FG's dominant control of the development arena and agenda in
the period, the project was highly centralized, being founded upon several premises: (i)
that the FG would be responsible for providing technical and financial support to the state
extension services; (ii) the FG would have primary responsibility for allocating counterpart
funding; and, (iii) extension activities to be developed by the participating states --
3   Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMBRATER); State Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER); and the Territorial Agency for Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension (ASTER).
4   Recommendations of project-financed studies were intended to feed into the project and SIBRATER.
5   The SAR states that the specific income effects of the project on beneficiary families were not
estimated. Farm models sampled included one rainfed crop farm in Piaui, and one mixed
crop/livestock operation in Bahia. The SAR states that average farm income might increase some
US$507 per year (to US$1,411) for the crop nrodel, and US$1,182 per year (to US$2,157) for the
crop/livestock model.



-3 -
methodologies, priorities, planned activities, staffing and administrative policies -- would
follow a single, uniform plan, to be established annually by EMBRATER. Once the loan
took practical effect (1988), profound and rapid changes in the Brazilian political economy
in the same year caused this model to become redundant and created many difficulties for
its implementation as envisaged at appraisal.6
7.    The treatment of recurrent cost financing was a prominent issue at appraisal. The
financial condition of the states was uncertain. The Bank had recently issued policy
guidelines limiting the use of such financing (OMS 1.21 of January 1985). The first
project had expanded technology transfer services inter alia through the hiring of some
3,600 staff, resulting in a mounting incremental salary burden (peaking in the final year of
the project) which the state EMATERs could not support. However, the potential
dismissal of staff trained and built up under that project jeopardized its sustainability, while
the impact of the new project depended heavily on upgrading the capacity and
specialization of those same staff in areas such as irrigation management, soil
conservation, agro-chemical usage and home economics. Senior Bank management
approved project support for recurrent funding on a declining scale over four years so that
by Year 5, costs would be fully borne by the Federal and State Governments.
8.    The financing of recurrent funding was a significant design flaw. Instead of trying
to innovate, the project continued to fund the salaries of state employees using federal
money.7 The FG apparently expressed disapproval of such support at appraisal, and the
project was viewed unfavorably by federal planning agencies. Notwithstanding the
planned declining scale of support for recurrent costs, state governments never received
sufficient funds and salaries deteriorated sharply, adversely affecting the project.
9.     Several other factors had the potential to complicate efforts to build more efficient,
nationwide extension services. The project working papers describe a lack of coherence
between policies related to national agricultural development, agricultural research and
extension. Conflicting crop priorities and a strong commodity emphasis in research
programs resulted in the transfer of technologies to which smaller farmers, priority targets
for extension, did not have adequate access and could not fully use when they did.
Further, the centralization of the extension apparatus permitted smaller farmers little or no
input into extension content. Importantly, weaknesses in other policies and services
affecting and/or available to small farmers, e.g., credit, pricing, land titling and tenure
policies, marketing and storage, and a range of infrastructure deficiencies, limited the
effectiveness of extension, which depended on their complementary effects. Policy,
pricing and land reforms promised by the FG in 1985 did not materialize.
6   These changes left other Bank projects, including the ten NRDP projects in the Northeastern states,
in a similar situation.
7   The inclusion of the study to determine alternative sources of financing for SIBRATER was an
attempt to innovate but it should have been completed as a condition of Board presentation, with its
recommendations ready to implement, perhaps as a pilot, following project effectiveness.



10.    Project Risk Assessment. The SAR listed institutional coordination, availability
of appropriate new production packages and their acceptability to farmers, and delays in
counterpart funding, as the main project risks. Institutional coordination had been
addressed under the first project and further improvement was foreseen under its
successor. Training could only partially resolve this issue when factors such as public
sector management policies, political influence and position in the institutional hierarchy,
and personnel incentive structures were major underlying factors driving the willingness
and capacity of agencies to collaborate. The concern over technology availability seems
inconsistent with a key project justification concerning the tremendous advances in
research which had occurred and now needed improvements in delivery. Acceptability to
farners was a legitimate concern which the project sought to address through fostering
better linkage and feedback between farmers, extensionists and researchers.
11.    Concems about counterpart funding availability acknowledged the long history of
shortages experienced by Bank projects across all sectors in Brazil. While the pre-
negotiations meeting with the Federal Government foreshadowed a potential mismatch
between project priorities and counterpart funding, actual Federal and State counterpart
funding availability was exceptionally good in the first and second years, registering 111%
and 98% respectively of appraisal estimates.8 Availability steadily declined from 1988,
settling into an erratic, unsatisfactory pattern thereafter, affected adversely by the
economic situation, high inflation and political change. Nevertheless, project funding
recovered strongly in the final year.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   The project had a turbulent history and evaluation of its achievements and impact
is hampered by the Borrower's not having developed systematic monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) capacity throughout SIBRATER even though this traditional deficiency
of extension projects was noted in the SAR and project design included measures to
resolve it.9 Available data generally focuses on actions carried out and not on measuring
results obtained. However, a recent Bank mission working closely with MAARA and
former personnel involved in the project, collected new data not available at the time of
the final supervision and which indicate significant (and contrasting) regional achievements
in increasing the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of SIBRATER.
8 According to the project Appraisal Task Manager, the less than full commitment of the Federal
Government (especially MINTER) was also reflected in its insistence that extension and research
were Bank priorities not shared by Government, for which education and urban
development/infrastructure came first, and that the extension project contained too much
conditionality. Government strongly favored the new sector loan as a result of this and other
considerations. The commitment of EMBRATER was very strong but it was dependent on the FG.
9   Bank agricultural technicians were pressing the project appraisal team to ensure good M&E but state
EMATERs and EMBRATER itself felt that the Bank was demanding too much, that they already
had established their own monitoring criteria and "had a lot of data". According to the project
appraisal Task Manager, evaluation capacity was non-existent, even among the states with superior
extension services.



- 5 -
13.   Data provided by MAARA show that some 2.1 million beneficiaries (small and
medium producers, rural women and rural youth) were reached by the project (see Table
14), 200,000 more than estimated at appraisal and at considerably lower cost, given that
the Loan was only 60% disbursed. In fact, the number of farmers reached exceeded by
almost a million the coverage achieved by SIBRATER at the time of appraisal. Full
disbursement would presumably have resulted in even greater coverage. This result
reflects, inter alia, the successful transition to the more efficient group extension
methodology and the rapid improvements in coverage in many states made possible by
better transportation and equipment, financed by the Loan.'0
14.   Data indicates that all 27 participating states benefited from project-financed
investments in the categories of expenditure called for under the project (see Table 12).
However, notably little was spent on consultant services and only in two states: of the
US$1.7 million spent on consultants, Minas Gerais accounted for 94% and Acre 6%.
Similarly, relatively few states undertook civil works, principally due to the erratic
counterpart funding situation: 76% of civil works expenditures were made by the Center-
West states of Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso and Goias. The relative share of
investments between the North/Northeast/Center-West and the South/Southeast was 46%
versus 54% respectively, a 6% greater share for the better-off states than was intended at
appraisal (although the intended 60:40 ratio was maintained for the better part of the
implementation period).
15.   In Southern states such as Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, the
project boosted extension services which were already comparatively good. State
EMATERs were reorganized, and project-financed training centers, vehicles, and
communications and audio-visual equipment are operational and providing good quality
services to farmers. The reported improved productivity of Southern small farmers in
corn, beans, rice, fruits and swine in recent years is attributed directly to the presence of
extension agents in the communities, an approach fostered by the project. Complementary
factors paving the way for the successful absorption of project funds in the South
included: the greater state government commitment to extension; the generally better level
of organization and commercial orientation of Southern small farmers; and their
commensurately greater capacity to exert pressure on authorities and capture resources.
The benefits derived from a sampling of the Southern states are summarized below.
16.   In Santa Caterina, some 62% of technical professionals in EMATER received
post-graduate training financed by the project. Under a program designed to raise the
professional skills and profitability of small/medium farmers and artisanal fishermen,
beneficiaries were taught inter alia how to use and maintain farm equipment/machinery
more cost-effectively. A study of 1,150 mnilk producers who had taken these courses
revealed a 48% increase in quantity of milk marketed without further investments. Similar
10    The MAARA data compares 1995 achievements with numbers of beneficiaries in 1987. For
women and youth, no 1987 estimate is provided. MAARA shows small and medium producer
beneficiaries as about 1.1 million, compared to the 1.2 million then-covered beneficiaries
mentioned by the SAR (1986).



- 6 -
findings arose from studies of fruitgrowers, oil and swine producers. Processing of meat
into value-added products resulted in almost doubling net income, results replicated in
several other products including confectionary and juices. The purchase of "Notebook"
computers enabled extension technicians to monitor in the field the content and outcome
of agricultural management training for double the number of small producers possible
previously. Computerization of EMATER facilitated institutional modernization, while
the acquisition/rehabilitation of vehicles and equipment augmented efficiency. Finally, a
tremendous increase in the availability of communications tools (educational videos and
radio programs, television programs) greatly improved the transmission of information to
farmers and the broader rural community.
17.   In Parana, EMATER conducted close to 4,000 training events involving over
70,000 professionals and covering technical, methodological, administrative and
managerial issues, enabling the institution to modernize its work programs and be more
effective in serving farmers. These courses and the upgraded programs resulted in the
rural and agricultural development plans now used in all state municipalities. Over 80% of
the training programs in agriculture, livestock and social welfare given by EMATER were
financed by the project. EMATER was computerized, enabling the upgrading of its
databases including on rural credit, monitoring, land tenure and settlement. A large
quantity of educational audio-visual aids were developed and many television and radio
programs produced for rural communities. Soil and water measurement and analytical
equipment was acquired which fostered the integrated management of those resources in
Parana to a standard now recognized internationally. A large amount of office equipment
was purchased, but there was negligible activity in civil works construction. Last, about
one-third of the vehicle fleet was replaced, considered by EMATER to be a major project
benefit given the deteriorated state of the fleet and the high cost of parts and repairs.
EMATER with project support assisted about 150,000 small farm families and some
35,000 medium and large-scale producers, along with 36,000 rural women, youth and
laborers.
18.   In Goias, the principal achievements from the project include: (i) marked
improvement in yields for rice, corn and soybeans from 1,220 kg/ha to 1623 kg/ha, 2,180
kg/ha to 4,116 kg/ha and 1,856 kg/ha to 2,467 kg/ha, respectively, as a result of project-
financed training for extension technicians and their improved capacity to assist producers;
(ii) training courses also upgraded demonstration and observation units designed to
establish and rehabilitate state pasture lands and improved the productivity of farmers
through demonstrating results of new seeds and varieties; (iii) administrative
modernization resulted from project-financed computerization; (iv) extensive use is now
made of communications tools acquired under the project, including mobile teaching units
specializing in milk, beekeeping, poultry and swine production technology.
19.   Project resources reached the Northern and Northeastern state EMATERs in a
reasonably equitable fashion and were expended for the purposes/categories intended.
However, the impact of these expenditures was affected profoundly by their fiscal
predicament, institutional factors, excessive political interference in the EMATERs and
general lack of political support for extension. Nevertheless, the EMATERs in Paraiba,



- 7 -
Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais undertook deep reforms in their extension
services, supported by project financing for technical assistence, administrative
modernization and training. Project support equipped these same EMATERs and others
in Ceara, Bahia, Pernambuco and Alagoas to contribute directly to the reformulated
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in their states, through the provision of
good quality technical assistance to rural communities. Specific examples follow of the
benefits derived from the project in several Northeastern states.
20.   In Minas Gerais, EMATER in 1991 initiated with project support, the
modernization of its extension services characterized by a strong focus on developing the
business/commercial skills of beneficiaries, especially the small family farmer. Well over
1,000 training courses in management, methodology and technology were attended by
some 8,000 EMATER personnel, with priority given to training technical staff in
alternative products, especially value-added, with income-generating potential. The
agency intalled 455 computer sites (personal computer, printer and desk) convergent with
its plan to develop a major agricultural information base; and acquired 340 sets of
equipment for improving the quality of training for family farmers. Some 360 vehicles and
1,400 pieces of office equipment were purchased to improve the mobility and working
conditions of extensionists. The project also financed a research project which resulted in
new guidelines for participatory diagnosis of farm productivity constraints, group
formation and income-generating programs. All state extension technicians were trained
in this methodology. The efforts by EMATER-MG resulted in major gains between 1991
and 1995: communities assisted rose from about 2,900 to 4,800; family farms attended
increased from 75,000 to 193,000; production groups increased from 740 to 1,800;
producer associations almost doubled from 400 to 770; and community development
associations (under the NRDP) rose from about 1,000 to 2,900. The project is viewed as
having contributed to reinvigorating extension services in the state, and the NRDP-Minas
Gerais project was a direct beneficiary.
21.   In Bahia, two special rural development programs were carried out, supported by
project resources. The first sought to revive cotton cultivation which had shrunk from
300,000 ha to just 25,000 due to climatic and phytosanitary factors (Bicudo and other
pests), as well as environmental degradation caused by the intensive use of agricultural
chemicals and machinery. Working with EMBRAPA/CNPA, two short-cycle cotton
varieties were identified with superior pest resistance. With private sector collaboration,
some 500 tons of certified seed were produced for farmer use. In parallel, the Loan
financed new vehicles, the computerization of all local offices working on the cotton
program, and the training of extension agents. With credit support from the State
Government and Banco Nordeste do Brasil, some 15,000 farmers were assisted, cultivated
area rose by 123,000 ha and some 105,000 jobs were created. Under the second program,
EMATER technicians were trained in new methodologies for milk and cotton processing,
and vehicles and information systems were purchased. Some 1,200 producers are
expected to receive training in 1997, which will increase their professional skills in both
areas of production.



- 8 -
22.   Similarly in Pernambuco, the state EMATER reports expanded coverage based on
instructional and communications equipment of diverse types financed by the project,
greater numbers of vehicles and improved mobility of extension personnel, and the large
number of courses and training events permitting EMATER staff to upgrade the quality of
technical assistance to farmers.
23.   In the Northern state of Para, the project is credited with having advanced farmers'
understanding, through the training of extensionists and their transfer of new technologies
to farmers themselves, of the need to rationalize their use of natural resources and factors
of production. This was felt to be especially important in a state where some 14 million ha
of land has already been cleared of native vegetation and where the need to find new
competitive agricultural activities and stem the rural exodus has become pressing. The
acquisition of 85 computers and equipping of 26 municipal offices of EMATER with
audio-visual equipment has made the transmission and coverage of information more
efficient. Renovation of the vehicle fleet, which was badly deteriorated due to poor roads
and climatic conditions, has greatly improved the ability of technicians to reach far-flung
farm communities.
D. The Implementation Record
24.   Project implementation was delayed and disrupted by several factors: (i) fiscal and
macro-economic crises which caused chronic shortages of counterpart funds, both federal
and state, virtually throughout the life of the Loan; (ii) the administrative and other
reforms which followed the introduction of a new Constitution in 1988; and (iii) the overly
bureaucratic and centralized nature of the project's procurement, planning and
coordination, and funding machinery.
25.   Counterpart Funding. Over the full span of implementation, periods when
funds flowed to the project in an adequate, timely fashion, were few. When funds were
available, the project made significant headway. Disbursements in the first two years
actually exceeded or kept abreast of appraisal estimates. From 1988, a gap opened,
widening to some US$62.0 million (aggregate cancellations) by the Closing Date (end
1995). The quality of public extension services throughout Brazil had already begun to
deteriorate in 1986 due to severe funding shortages which affected most public
institutions. FG support for extension declined and EMBRATER's role was diminished.
State governments limited financing to the payroll and minor operational costs. These
problems were more acute in the poorest regions (the North and Northeast), where
political interference in the EMATERs was stronger and the decrease in federal financial
support more damaging.
26.   The practical effects of erratic counterpart funding were: rapid depreciation of
project resources which could not cover the cost of annual work programs in an
inflationary environment; the inability to purchase the number of vehicles planned; and
curtailment of the civil works program. The erosion of staff salaries caused poor morale,
loss of public credibility for extension services and an exodus of trained people from
SIBRATER (about 8-12% per year, depending on the state) to the private sector, a flow



- 9 -
which slackened as the deteriorating economy affected private sector absorptive capacity.
Further, planning and administrative measures emerging as recommendations for project-
financed studies, had little chance of implementation.
27.   A new Federal Government in 1991, faced with an unbalanced economy,
introduced a program of strict fiscal restraint which included a freeze on financing and
recruitment. Budget funds already approved for the project were withheld subject to the
Ministry of Economy approving their release, a situation which affected both counterpart
and loan funds. Disbursements at this point were about 50% of forecast (US$55.8 million
compared to US$110.2 million). The Loan was found in 1991 to have been overspent on
Category I salaries by some US$6.9 million, comprising US$4.5 million already disbursed
and US$2.4 million awaiting approval in Washington, but already withdrawn from the
Special Account. The Bank reluctantly agreed to cover the total amount from the non-
allocated category of the Loan. No disbursements took place for about one year due to
this occurrence having prevented replenishment of the Special Account. Bank
correspondence with EMBRATER in this period notes the imbalance in project
expenditures, with personnel costs far exceeding estimates -- and other activities such as
civil works, consultancies and training, falling well short l '
28.   Administrative Reforms. Further disrupting project implementation were the
administrative reforms commencing with OperaVao Desmonte,12 which followed the
introduction of a new Federal Constitution in 1988. This period of significant political,
economic and social change in Brazil largely overshadowed the concerns of individual
projects. Under the new Constitution, the FG could no longer finance state public services
and thus, each state could create its own decentralized model of extension services,
defining policies and plans best suited to its own local needs. Under these conditions, the
size of the project probably mattered less than its continuing centralized focus and
structure. The FG shied away from either proposing project cancellation or supporting
project reformulation. Instead, it progressively withdrew its financial support.
29.   In a political football game where none of the players, including the Federal
Government, wished to be left holding the ball, institutional responsibility for the project
changed hands several times, with disruptive effects. The abolition of EMBRATER, the
national agricultural extension agency responsible for the project, paralyzed project
activities especially in the Northeastern states where project-financed support for the
EMATERs was traditionally high. The agency's legal elimination in 1989 was temporarily
reversed when Congress refused to accept the decision. In this brief hiatus, EMBRATER
tried to revitalize the project but was subsequently abolished in 1990 (along with several
other federal parastatals in the agricultural sector), its role transferred to EMBRAPA, the
11    Letter to EMBRATER, January 14, 1990.
12    This expression was used to designate a partial administrative reform following the new Federal
Constitution of 1988, under which a certain number of federal agencies/institutions, like
EMBRATER, were dismantled.



- 10-
Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation, consistent with a general movement towards
the fusion of research and extension.
30.   While the abolition of EMBRATER created many complications for the project,
and the Loan Agreement made specific reference to the Bank's remedies in the event this
was to occur (Section 5.01), the Bank nevertheless supported its abolition on efficiency
and other grounds relating to the new decentralization mandate, which gave responsibility
for key services to the states and municipalities. To cope with the abolition and
circumvent resulting budget problems, some NE states adopted special measures including
reducing the number of local and regional offices (Maranhao, Rio Grande do Norte, Piaui
and Bahia), gradually increasing state government support for EMATER operational costs
(Sergipe, Ceara and Paraiba), and fusing extension and research.
31.   EMBRAPA's tenure as the agency responsible for the project presents certain
contradictions. While it made energetic efforts to get organized including holding
seminars on implementation issues, establishing a modest core structure for coordination
and encouraging the states to participate in counterpart funding, it is also evident that key
elements within the agency did not want the project, the agency's financial situation was
precarious and it was undergoing a protracted, vaguely-defined reorganization. 13
32.   Efforts to Reformulate the Project. Discussion of project reformulation had
surfaced in 1990, given the poor performance of the Northern states and the Bank's wish
to either improve that performance or drop selected states from the project. EMBRAPA
tried in 1991 to reformulate the project in keeping with the FG's modified role in
extension (but essentially by reallocating resources between categories). The process was
quite advanced with draft legal documents ready and undertakings secured from the FG
and the Ministry of Economy for provision of 100% of project funds, despite a budget
freeze. The proposal lapsed due to the pre-occupation of FG with high-profile domestic
political issues, and the Bank's sense that the proposal needed strengthening.
33.   The project record notes that reformulation gained new impetus in 1993 from the
execution of a Mid-Term Review -- although it appears not to have resembled the intent
of the Loan Agreement14 -- a Bank-sponsored study tour to Mexico, Chile and Colombia
by EMBRAPA personnel, and a change of Divisional management in the Bank.
EMBRAPA's new proposal sought to decentralize services to the municipalities with less
emphasis on extension as a national system, and contained provisions to: (i) ensure the
sustainability of services by tapping into state, municipal and private sources of funding;
(ii) transfer decision-making power to local communities and organizations, facilitating
better targeting of public extension services; (iii) achieve greater accountability for public
extension services; and (iv) ensure that extensionists resided and worked in rural
13    Most state agencies had undertaken administrative reforns, including EMBRAPA itself.
14    The review was to occur by December 1989 or once 50% of the Loan was disbursed, whichever
came first. The Bank's Recife Office staff maintain that in formal terms, no review occurred
and no documentation was located.



- 11 -
communities.15 Notably, it was not to fund any expenditures for salaries or civil works.
Discussions lasted one year due to strong resistance to change among the state EMATERs
and inadequate support from the Directorate of EMBRAPA which wanted to relinquish
the project. On the verge of reformulation, with legal documents ready, the project was
again transferred, this time to the Ministry of Agriculture (MAARA). 16
34.   The transfer apparently derived from a long-standing political struggle between
MAARA and EMBRAPA in the wake of EMBRATER's dissolution, and between
EMBRAPA's staff researchers and its administration, the former never accepting the
extension role and the latter wishing to capture the political advantages resulting from
intensive contacts with State Secretariats of Agriculture nationwide. 17 The Bank
supported the transfer, which was largely a fait accompli, on the grounds that: extension
coordination within EMBRAPA faced serious internal resistance, the principles of
decentralization and privatization seemed to carry greater weight in MAARA than
EMBRAPA; and the Project Coordinating Unit would be closer to the Minister and enjoy
greater power to convince state governments to accept and adopt the new ideas embodied
in the proposed reformulation. In fact, at that time MAARA lacked the leadership or
intrinsic commitment to the new decentralized model of extension to conduct the
reformulation process, time was running out to amend the project legal documents and
achieve an effective decentralized project implementation, and the process again collapsed.
35.   MAARA's commitment to implement the remainder of the project within the
agreed framework was not strong. Managerial capacity was lacking, and its approach to
project administration was excessively centralized. Considerable time was spent obtaining
a decision to extend the Closing Date (to December 1995) although closure of the project
might have been appropriate at this point, given the failure to reformulate. Suspension of
disbursements was not seen as an option, given the short time remaining and the existing
commitments to fund extension at the state level. The Bank reasoned that the conscious
targeting of available resources to selected states with greater dynamism, absorptive
capacity and counterpart funds availability, i.e., in the Southern states, might be cost-
effective. This strategy was politically unpalatable to MAARA at the time, but according
to the supervision record and MAARA data on regional shares of project expenditures, it
appears to have been happening anyway. 18 The Borrower Completion Report tends to
confirm this, asserting that considerable flexibility in the Federal/State sharing of
counterpart in the final phase, with preference going to stronger institutions with better
15    The concept/spirit had much in common with the NRDP projects, reformulated in 1993.
16    Presidential decree, dated September 24, 1993.
17    Memorandum, September 23, 1993.
18    Supervision report, May 9, 1996; and MAARA data, Tables 12 and 13.



- 12 -
access, led to the uneven distribution of project resources to the better-developed states
with greater absorptive capacity.'9
36.   This strategy contributed to a marked improvement in disbursements in the final
year. The smoother flow of funds, changed leadership in the Rural Development
Secretariat in MAARA, and institutional reforms in a number of the Northern EMATERs
led to the improved use of resources and greater participation of the municipalities and
beneficiaries. While they could not overcome the effects of the preceding years, they were
a very positive development.
37.   Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost was US$194.6 million
compared to US$349.1 million estimated at appraisal. Bank Loan funds represented
US$92.9 million; the Federal Government share was US$50.9 million and State
Government portion US$50.8 million, i.e., counterpart was shared 50/50. The project
was carried out over 10.1 years, compared to the planned eight. The salient features of
each component follow.
38.   Strengthening Federal and State Project Agencies. For the institutional
development of the EMATERs, the project was the most important and often the single
source of financing for vehicles, equipment and training. In spite of the difficult economic
and political situation during much of the project period, many of the state EMATERs,
especially in the South, underwent different forms of reorganization whether partial or
total. Obviously, delayed disbursements and aggregate cancellation of some 40% of the
Loan limited project impact by reducing the potential scope and scale of all project
activities, including those designed specifically to improve institutional capacity. But there
is ample evidence -- including the massive increase in beneficiaries -- that many
EMATERs prevailed over difficult conditions, although the institutional ability to absorb
and use project benefits varied between states and the sustainability of those benefits is
uncertain in some cases.
39.   Expanded and Improved Field Extension Services. Project beneficiaries
exceeded the appraisal target and vastly exceeded numbers estimated at appraisal (para. 13
and Table 14). Vehicles, equipment and training have improved services. Virtually all
public extension services in Brazil continue to have problems stemming from low salaries
and lack of funds for basic operations. However, in many states, even those in which
extension institutions remain quite weak, relevant and innovative work is being done due
to the personal dedication of extensionists in the local offices. The private sector has a
relevant complementary role in providing assistance, principally in the case of agro-
industrial processors of food products (tomatoes, grapes, milk, chicken and tobacco).
Such firms are contracting with small farmers and providing them with extension services
to guarantee an adequate supply of needed primary products. Producer cooperatives in
Bahia and in the Southern states have developed technical assistance for their associates,
The Bank was also pressing for a major improvement in Brazil portfolio disbursements at this
time.



- 13 -
generally small farmers. In Rio Grande do Norte, NGOs financed by the Bank through the
NRDP have become a vital complement to public extension services
40.   In straight numerical terms, the following summarizes inputs into better extension
provision, financed by the project: (i) Training: over 11,000 basic and short/medium
duration courses for about 145,000 attendees mainly from Southern states (target:
87,000); 276 persons, mostly from the South and Center-West, attended 168 post-
graduate courses; 26 persons attended 9 external post-graduate courses, with no
participants from the Northern states; and, a further 16,000 people attended about 820
other training events; (ii) Consultancies: use of consultants was modest overall, mainly
due to FG hiring and contracting prohibitions throughout the period. In addition, between
1986 and 1995, the project financed the salaries of close to 3,000 higher level staff and
administrators,20 (iii) Vehicles and Parts: the project financed over 4,300 vehicles
(passenger, utility and motorcycles) with all regions participating fairly evenly, except for
the Center-West, where vehicle purchases were modest (target: 7,500); (iv) Equipment
and Furnishings: some 61,000 units were purchased (agricultural and office equipment,
computers, books and teaching aids) mostly concentrated in the Northeastern states; (v)
Civil Works: Only 88 items of infrastructure were constructed or rehabilitated
nationwide, the result of erratic counterpart funding and the prioritization of other
activities, and (vi) Materials and Inputs: well over 10,000 demonstration events (field
days, productive instruction and other events) were held (target: 38,000), and some 4,700
demonstration and observation plots were established (target: 18,000); methodological
demonstrations were heavily concentrated in the Northern regions; many thousands of
audio-visual aids and folders were prepared, heavily concentrated in the South and the
Northeast regions.
41.   Extension Methodology. The project sought to change the extension
methodology from an individual to a group approach, the so-called convivencia
methodology. This method had been successful in the social extension arena and indeed,
the formation of groups under the project frequently coincided with farm-women's groups
formed prior to the project. The methodology was widely tested in the Northeast, and
was accepted in land reform settlements sponsored by the National Institute for
Colonization and Land Reform (INCRA) in the Center-West and North-West. In the
South, the multi-media approach was widely and effectively used, leading to a
combination of groups and individual meetings. Cultural reasons are thought to explain
differences in the functioning of associative models in different regions. In practice,
extension methodology was constantly evolving. By project closing, most extension work
was being handled through groups or associations of producers and this is reflected in the
greatly increased coverage. Strong emphasis was placed on mass diffusion of technology
through regular radio and television programs, folders of materials, and simple
publications designed for this purpose. Improved service provision in the States of Santa
20    Memorandum, February 10. 1994.



- 14 -
Catarina, Parana, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias, Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais and
Alagoas can be attributed to such methodological changes and diversification.
42.   Farmer/Extension/Research Linkages and Feedback. The aim was to give
greater utility to the considerable stock of research results, i.e., make them more adoptable
by the farmer. Missions advocated greater use of verification and observation plot
techniques as opposed to demonstration plots, which received the most attention. There
were few concrete examples of the integration of farmers, research and extension. The
most prominent was in Santa Catarina where, following the fusion of the research and
extension agencies, programs of training and experimentation were developed, involving
the three actors. In the North, integrated work programs have been reported by the States
of Amazonas and Para In the Northeast, Sergipe broke new ground with such systems.
Nevertheless, farmer, extension and research linkages remain an area needing consistent
effort to facilitate the dissemination of research results, and provide client input into the
research process to inject greater focus into its impacts and objectives.
43.   Training, Technical Assistance and Studies. The abolition of EM}BRATER
interrupted post-graduate and doctoral programs (including external programs) already
underway, and disrupted re-training programs for large numbers of extensionists in each
state. Nevertheless, over the full span of the project and in spite of fiscal and institutional
obstacles, the number of extension personnel receiving training greatly exceeded appraisal
estimates. Project-financed technical assistance progressed slowly owing to a Federal
decree of 1988 which limited the contracting of consultants. EMBRATER worked with
faculties of agronomy at state and federal universities to relieve the lack of consultants,
but these institutions were also poorly-funded and cooperative efforts were limited.
44.   There is little information available on the planned studies. Early supervision
reports state that extension methodology studies designed to test various approaches to
group services had their results tested in the field as early as 1988. The widespread
application of this method in Brazil implies that the planned transition from individual
services was made, and it is assumed that the findings of the study were instrumental in
this. The monitoring and evaluation study was described as well-advanced but only in
the supervision and monitoring aspects, for which a national system for use by
SIBRATER was ready for testing in mid-1988. Evaluation criteria had not been
developed. There is no further mention in the record of this study or the application of its
findings. The history of the study to define alternative sources of financing for
SIBRATER is vague. A supervision report mentions that the study was completed in
1987 and incorporated into legislation designed to allocate federal tax revenue for the
operation of the extension system. The legislation became entangled in Congressional
changes which followed the framing of the new Constitution. The Bank reviewed a draft
version of the report but deemed it unacceptable since it proposed to federalize extension
services financed by a new tax, a model running directly counter to the tide of events in
Brazil which stressed decentralization, private sector involvement and fiscal austerity.
Information on the other studies concerning administrative strengthening and research-
extension linkages is unavailable.



- 15 -
45.   Social Extension and Community Development. This component initially had
no priority in a tight fiscal situation and could not advance in spite of the impetus provided
by a major conference on women in Brasilia in 1986. The project started from a low
staffing base for such activities and expansion was to come from an additional 550 social
extensionists to be hired under the project. With funds scarce for other, crop-related
expenditures and services needed for farmers in frontier areas, the demand for social
service extensionists went unheeded by state EMATERs, despite social extensionists'
apparent greater success in organizing producer groups and introducing the new group
methodology for extension. This situation, reported in earlier supervision reports, appears
from MAARA data on the numbers of women and youth benefiting from extension
services, to have turned around at some point and been quite successful. The probable
impetus was the new focus in many state EMATERs on the farm family as subjects of
extension.
E. Use of Consultants
46.   The project called for significant numbers of consultants for training, technical
assistance and studies. It is known that EMBRAPA retained consultant staff when it took
over the project, because of a federal hiring freeze. While the file record does not review
the experience with consultants, MAARA did provide data showing numbers of
consultants retained during the project period and clearly performance was well short of
expectations -- only 72 consultancies for the entire project nationwide, with varying
regional participation.2' In quantitative terms, the use of consultants fell far short of
expectations.
F. Project Sustainability and Future Operations
47.   Sustainability appears reasonable in some states which performed well, given the
difficult circumstances, while in other cases sustainability is uncertain. There were no
arrangements made for the future operation of the project (none were required by the
project) and much depends on the commitment of individual states. The project did not
establish formal, structural links to other projects and programs. However, necessity bred
significant and successful collaboration between the NRDP and state EMATERs in Minas
Gerais, Rio Grande do Norte and Alagoas to provide technical assistance to rural
communities.
G. Bank Performance
48.   The Bank's preparation and appraisal of this project was satisfactory. The project
was justified and a strong effort was made to reflect the best of past experience in project
21    MAARA data on expenditures under Category 3 Consultants shows some 96% of expenditures
concentrated in Minas Gerais and the balance in Acre. However, data on numbers of
consultancies per region shows: North 4, Northeast 27; Southeast 10; South 5; and Center West
26.



- 16 -
design. However, financing the recurrent costs of staff built up under Loan 1568-BR
burdened its successor and could not shield extension personnel or the project from the
impact of the severe fiscal situation. There was however, little alternative at the time of
appraisal to supporting the salaries of those staff in the absence of an alternative solution
ready to implement -- co-financing, private sector involvement, decentralized management
and funding of extension were and remain complex issues, and were politically difficult to
introduce in that period. Project design in key respects resulted from obligations created
under the first project, including the need to provide transport and equipment for them.
49.   The Bank's performance can be faulted for a lack of decisiveness and follow-up,
even acknowledging the difficult funding and institutional context. There was no formal
evaluation of the actual and potential impact on the project of institutional, constitutional
and legal changes. The formal, time-bound Mid-Term Review called for in the Loan
Agreement did not occur as planned, and there is debate about whether it occurred at all.
The absence of a mechanism in the Bank for coming to quick closure on reformulation,
the repeated and protracted attempts to reformulate, and the frustrating conditions in the
country, should have prompted rapid, decisive action. Significant goals at appraisal --
defining alternative funding for extension services and establishing sound M&E -- were
not followed up. Once the Bank rejected initial recommendations from the alternative
financing study, the issue should have gone back to the drawing board with a deadline.
Similarly, the regional evaluation studies intended to upgrade ex-post evaluation of
extension services, evaporated.
50.   The Loan and Project Agreements were not amended to reflect the abolition of
EMBRATER and transfer of responsibility for the project to EMBRAPA, nor the transfer
from EMBRAPA to MAARA, raising significant issues of legal and technical
accountability for a period exceeding five years. An Amending and Assumption
Agreement including significant changes in the project, was signed by the Bank on
December 15, 1992 (well over two years after EMBRAPA formally took over the
project)22 but was never countersigned by the Borrower and EMBRAPA.23 Following the
transfer to MAARA, the Bank in early 1994 drew up an Assumption, Termination and
Amendment Agreement intended to formalize all previous changes in the project. This
effort lost priority during managerial changes in the Bank and ministerial changes in Brazil.
The consequences of the legal vacuum are not quantifiable, but it does reflect on overall
project management .24 Finally, the Bank appears not to have studied project suspension
or cancellation of the Loan as options responding to the combination of discrete events
and chronic problems (although it did cancel US$55.0 million of the Loan in 1994 as part
of a broad renovation of the Brazil portfolio).
22    Presidential Decree 99661 of October 17, 1990.
23    Fax of July 13, 1993, rcminds the Borrower and EMBRAPA to countersign the Amending
Agreement. Presidcntial Decree of September 24, 1993, transferred the project to
MAARA.
24    While not formally established in the legal agreements, these changes were informally
recognized through regular correspondence, Aidcs Memoire and other documents.



- 17 -
51.   Project supervision was deficient including substantial gaps between missions (see
Table 11). The project was rated unsatisfactory (3/3) for almost three years without a
systematic effort to remedy problems. However, supervising this project presented many
difficulties. Routine supervision was for most of the project's history, handled by the
Bank's Recife Office where staff were concurrently grappling with major implementation
problems on this and other Bank projects, and the reformulation of the ten NRDP
projects. Shortages of resources, exacerbated by Bank budget cuts in the 1990s which
impacted on supervision across the board, the logistical challenges of overseeing a
nationwide extension program, the chaotic institutional circumstances, and the mismatch
on occasion between the skills fielded and diversity of problems needing resolution, all
affected supervision. A certain frustration may also have sapped the project's priority in
the Bank. The formal supervision schedule was to a significant extent supplemented by
frequent opportunistic contacts between Recife or Washington staff and the project
agency and state EMATERs, taking advantage of proximity while on other Bank duties.
H. Borrower Performance
52.   Borrower commitment to this project was eroded by economic and fiscal problems
and political factors, over which individual federal and state project agencies had little
control. EMBRATER's ability to manage the project was severely compromised by the
economic and institutional crises described in earlier sections of this report. Subsequent
transfers of responsibility for the project were imposed by decree with fairly minimal
consultation with the Bank, and the receiving agencies were neither prepared for, nor
wholeheartedly devoted to, managing the project, mostly acting as caretakers unwilling to
either implement it as intended or relinquish it. Technical expertise in EMBRATER either
fled or was transferred as a small nucleus to EMIBRAPA under insecure conditions.
Transferred again to MAARA with no improvement in their status, it is not surprising that
the institutional memory of the project had evaporated by Closing. Piloting innovations in
the project's final stages was considered, but believed infeasible because the institutional
commitment to decentralization, even seven years after constitutional changes launched
the process, continued to waver.
53.   In general, most of the states had little concept of overriding project objectives or
their own role in an improved national system, and as previously mentioned, political
influence in extension agencies, mostly in the North, was an impediment. The financially-
strapped EMATERs were receiving funds from the FG as part of the new decentralization
mandate which committed FG to sustaining them, and were understandably focussed on
continuing to purchase new vehicles and equipment essential to increasing coverage and
quality. While representing only some 10% of EMATER budgets overall, project
resources were up to 100% of their investment budgets and in many cases, more than 50%
of operating costs excluding personnel.
54.   Procurement. The project financed a large quantity of vehicles, equipment,
training and technical assistance. Institutional arrangements for procurement were
centralized and bureaucratic. An audit report on EMBRATER's handling of financial



- 18 -
accounts and management in 1988 and 1989 noted numerous cases of non-compliance
with Bank procurement procedures, almost exclusively involving financial controls and
accounting. The national scope of the project meant that oversight of procurement --
which was handled in numerous small lots under local procedures including direct
shopping by municipal extension offices -- was not easy, but with the exception of the
above, procurement was straightforward and problems stemmed mostly from the erratic
flow of funds.
55.   Audit. The quality of project audit performance fluctuated. Audits tended to be
late (e.g., the 1988 audit of the Special Account was not carried out until late 1991).
EMBRATER's financial supervision and control of the project was below expectations.
This was considered notable given that SIBRATER's financial monitoring was viewed as
among the best in Brazil and a model for other Bank-financed projects. The Bank
presumed that the situation reflected the morale crisis resulting from EMBRATER's de-
stabilization prior to its abolition and the effects of delays in the payment of already-
reduced salaries.
56.   A limited Bank review of audit reports produced by the Federal Control
Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance25 on the management of project funds by
EMBRAPA (1993) and SDRIMAARA (1994) concluded that: (i) for EMBRAPA, the
financial performance of the project fell short of original expectations, although the audit
was unqualified; and (ii) for MAARA, the audit was qualified for the Project Accounts,
the SOE Statement and the Special Account Statement on the basis of some US$368,000
in withdrawals from the Special Account in excess of amounts for corresponding
expenditures; and, because of US$2.4 million in exchange rate losses due to delayed
submission of requests for reimbursement from the Special Account. Further, neither
audit strictly followed Bank reporting requirements; TORs were not submitted to the
Bank and the audits did not show requests for reimbursement submitted to the Bank. The
Bank's follow-up on auditing problems and the Borrower's efforts to resolve them were
generally satisfactory.
57.   Covenant Compliance. The more important Loan covenants were as follows: (i)
Borrower's and implementing agency's commitment to project objectives and the
Borrower's obligation to support and fund EMBRATER's carrying out of the project
(Section 3.01); (ii) Counterpart funding obligations (Section 3.02); (iii) Auditing (4.01 (i)
- (iv)); (iv) Alternative financing study (Section 2.08 (a) and (b)). The Project Agreement
called for: (v) A Mid-Term Review by end-1989 or upon disbursement of US$77.5
million of the Loan (Section 2.09)26; and (vi) Management, operational and financial
control covenants for EMBRATER (Sections 3.01 and 4.01). As described in the body of
this report, compliance was deficient in key respects.
25    Memorandum, March 14, 1996.
26    The covenant actually called for a study not later than December 31, 1989, or the date at which
the Borrower had committed the equivalent of US$77.5 million.



- 19 -
I. Assessment of Outcome
58.   Rate of Return. The project's Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) at
appraisal was calculated on a national basis at 26%, based on assumptions about potential
yields, estimated farmer participation, and development period costs and prices. The
disruptive institutional situation caused a discontinuity in the collection, flow, consistency
and analysis of information. The project record does not discuss rates of adoption or
improvements in beneficiary income or productivity, and no indicators were established."
Lack of reliable data on cost (at the farm level), rates of adoption for individual products,
prices and conversion factors precludes the re-estimation of the IERR. Nevertheless, a
limited and indicative inference may be drawn from MAARA end of project period yield
data for the crops/activities typical of small and medium farmers (see Table 15 this report,
and para. 3.27 and Annex 4 of the SAR). It is likely that the economic value of the
incremental production is greater than the economic value of the incremental costs (at the
farm level) because farmers are known to have adopted, to a greater or lesser degree
depending on the state, the new technologies made available by state EMATERs. On the
costs side, it is known that investments were 40% less and actual yields were greater than
estimated at appraisal. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the net incremental value
of production was high enough to cover the project's investment cost to produce an IERR
greater than the appraisal estimate.
59.   The project was initially rated Unsatisfactory (at exit) based on the limited
information available from MAARA at the time of the final supervision mission. Data
were partial, referred only to the most recent period of project execution, and showed
national aggregates which did not distinguish state or regional implementation. The rating
was strongly influenced by MAARA's inability at that time to provide more precise data at
the level of each state, importantly because its own technical team had already disbanded.
Given that a significant amount of resources (US$194 million) were spent, a Bank mission
visited Brasilia recently to collect more complete available data for the ICR.
60.   On the basis of this and information from state EMATERs outlining advances
made as a result of the project, it is assessed as having substantially achieved its
development objectives. The project is accordingly rated Satisfactory.
J. Main Findings and Lessons Learned
61.   Main Findings. The project exceeded federal and state fiscal and institutional
capacity during a difficult transitional period in Brazil. This could not have been foreseen
at appraisal, although the Bank appreciated the fact that relative state/regional
implementation capacity was not uniform. Following the introduction of a new
constitution in 1988, the FG frowned upon transfers of funds seen as "non-constitutional",
i.e., seeking to maintain public services, and withdrew its counterpart support for the
27    The Bank proposed in 1993 that any reformulation include such monitorable indicators.



- 20 -
project accordingly, although economic crisis was obviously a critical component.
Meanwhile, the states struggled to maintain the status quo and make some progress. In
this epoch, education, health and other services formerly financed by the center, were
transferred summarily to the states and municipalities. The project had little priority in this
turbulent environment. Timely reformulation of the project was imperative in order to
improve its ability to succeed in the new circumstances. One alternative might have been
to focus selectively on cheaper, more participatory and sustainable extension services,
tailored to state and local conditions and benefiting even the poorest states.
62.   It is on the basis of lessons from experiences like this, that the Bank has
successfully restructured its Brazil portfolio to support decentralized, participatory lending
which pilots mechanisms for the delivery of cost-effective, priority services across a range
of subsectors. Among the practical issues needing resolution prior to or under any new
extension operation are: (i) a strategic vision for extension services, including at the state
level; (ii) whether the municipalization of extension is the best path; (iii) effective ways to
preserve extension's link to the center, i.e., state EMATERs and the FG, in the interests of
innovation and quality control; (iv) how to secure the proper funding of decentralized
extension systems including resource mobilization and funding mechanisms which draw on
private/beneficiary participation; and (v) how to establish an "ethic" of impact evaluation.
Finally, if farmers are indeed an important part of the community, experience shows that
they will exert pressure to make the system work.
63.   Lessons Learned. The lessons from this project provide guidance for future
extension operations:
(a)    When a project strategy and/or design is overtaken by political, legal or
economic events, the Bank should promptly undertake the needed changes,
including complete reformulation if necessary, which will enable it to
succeed in the new environment;
(b)    Macroeconomic, fiscal and political conditions are critical arbiters of
project outcome, influencing Borrower commitment, counterpart funding
availability, project incentives and the behavior of institutions. Acute and/or
chronic shortages of counterpart funds usually mean that a project has low
priority for the government, or exceeds its fiscal capacity
(c)    Projects of national scope should ensure that: supervision quality can be
maintained; required actions are flexibly tailored to regional/state capacity
and conditions; and, poorly-performing states/regions are given
concentrated attention and possibly special incentives to improve
performance;
(d)   Effective M&E integrated into the daily work of extensionists and
extension institutions, and linked to impact and cost-effectiveness, remains
a challenge for SIBRATER. Quality baseline studies at appraisal should
initiate this process. Monitorable indicators should measure beneficiaries'



- 21 -
production, productivity, income and welfare. The Bank/Borrower
dialogue should promote demand for evaluation results, the institutional
infrastructure of accountability, and information feedback systems for
planning and decision-making. The Bank, as a stakeholder in better data,
should vigorously pursue implementation of such systems;
(e)   Institutional strengthening remains critical to the delivery of better
extension services. It is a longer-term process which often requires, in
addition to better management capacity, changes in institutional policies,
incentives and cultures, areas in which the Bank can provide much greater
guidance. Institutional strengthening should be supported by and coalesce
around a strategic vision of national (and state-level) extension services;
and
(f)    The project validated the Bank's policy of not financing salaries. While a
project should not be faulted for recruiting staff, a follow-on operation
should not have to bear the consequences of the Borrower's inability to
support those personnel.



- 22 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Loan 2679-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial    Partial     Nef_igible  Not aRppiable
(V)          (V)           (e)          (V)
Macro Policies                    Fl                                       1 1 
Sector Policies                   El             El          Fii            E
Financial Objectives               El           LI            LII             ]
Institutional Development         FI]           [3]           07            07
Physical Objectives                              El           Fl           LII
Poverty Reduction                 ED                          El            El
Gender Issues                     Fl             El          El            [0]
Other Social Objectives            El                         El            LI
Environmental Objectives           []            El           LI           E]
Public Sector Management           El            0l             3          L0
Private Sector Development        Fl            Fl           LI            El



- 23 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS (CONTINUED)
B. Project Sustainabilit,              Likely           Unlikel          Uncertain
[II~~~[
C. Bank Performance               HighLy Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Derident
Appraisal                                            LE]
Supervision                                          Fi ]               7
Implementation (na)                 F]               LI]               El
D. Borrower Performance           Hidbly Satisfactorv   Satisfactory     Defident
(V)         ~~(')             (")
Preparation                         LI               [ZI               Li]
Implementation                         I              El                L
Covenant Compliance                 [I                   I1
E. Assessment of Outcome      HighIl                                          llJghv
Satisfact or    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactora
LI                     L~~F7  FI            FI



- 24 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
Project Title/                  Purpose               Year         Status
Loan No.                                         Approved
Agricultural Extension I Project  To strengthen agricultural  1978       Closed
(Ln. 1568-BR)                 extension system in Brazil.
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         --            July 1984
Preparation                                        --           November 1984
Appraisal                                          --            August 1985
Negotiations                                       --            March 1986
Board Presentation                                 --            April 22, 1986
Loan Signing                                       --           June 30, 1986
Loan Effectiveness                             June 1986         October 8, 1986
Loan Closing                                   June 1994         December31, 1995
Project Completion                         December 31, 1993    December 31, 1995



- 25 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate          Actual           Actual as % of
Estimate
1986                   12.00                  --                  --
1987                  20.20                  22.51               111
1988                  41.70                  40.47                97
1989                  68.20                  50.79                74
1990                  93.70                  53.50                57
1991                  114.70                 55.81                49
1992                  133.20                 66.37                50
1993                  148.50                 73.68                50
1994                  155.00                 80.30                52
1995                    --                   84.76                55
1996                    --                   92.95 2              60
Final Disbursement:   October 30, 1996
' US$55.0 million canceled, December 29, 1994.
2 Loan balance of US$7.05 nillion was canceled May 13, 1996.
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
I1.    The project data record of achievements is not comparable, due to institutional
upheavals combined with monitoring and evaluation deficiencies, with key indicators
established at appraisal, and is presented in narrative form in the Main Text.



- 26 -
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study           Purpose as Defined at        Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Administrative      Stronger, uniform linkages     n/a                  n/a
Strengthening       between EMBRATER
(Federal) and State
(EMATER) operational units
2. Monitoring and      To study specific aims of       n/a                 n/a
Evaluation          M&E vis a vis the entire
national program
SIBRATER and devise
appropriate criteria and
methods including field
questionnaires
3. Extension           To test various methods of    Completed  Widespread usage of the
Methodology         group approach to field                   methodology defined by the
extension practices with                 study
emphasis on audio-visual
aids
4. Alternate Sources of   Create more stable long-  Completed in   Conclusions not accepted by
Financing for       range planning for the     draft          Bank and no follow-up
SIBRATER System    system: avoid uncertainties
and corresponding cash flow
problems
5. Research-Extension    Ensure greater                n/a                 n/a
Linkages            responsiveness of research
programs to farmers' needs:
adapt research results to on-
farm conditions



- 27 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category            Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
IBRD    Federal/    Total          IBRD      Federal    State       Total
State                              Govt.      Govt.
Govt.
1. Eligible Salaries            28.4       28.5      56.9           28.9       16.8      16.8       62.5
2. Training                     19.1        2.9       22.0          12.4        4.3        3.8      20.5
3. Consultants' services         2.5        2.5        5.0           1.7        0.0       0.0        1.7
4. Vehicles and spare parts     24.4       34.3       58.7          25.0       13.4       14.7      53.1
5. Equipment and furniture      48.0       52.6      100.6          11.9        8.3        8.0      28.2
6. Civil works                  28.3       40.0       68.3           2.9        2.1        1.7       6.7
7. Inputs and materials          4.3        4.3        8.6           8.0        4.8        4.6      17.4
8. Supervision, monitoring       --        --         --             2.1        1.2        1.2       4.5
and evaluation
9. Other operational costs      --         29.0       29.0          --         --         -          -
Total                       155.0      194.1      349.1          92.9 2     50.9       50.8     194.6
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                      Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Local        Foreign        Total         Local         Foreign        Total
Costs         Costs                       Costs          Costs
IBRD                        37.5          117.5        155.0           n/a            n/a          92.9 2
Federal Government         104.5            --          104.5          n/a            n/a          50.9
State Government            89.6           --           89.6           n/a           n/a           50.9
Total                      231.6          117.5        349.1           n/a           n/a          194.8
No breakdown available by foreign exchange/local costs.
2 US$55.0 million canceled, December 29, 1994. Loan balance of USS7.1 million was canceled May 13, 1996.



- 28 -
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Loan 2769-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original       Revised                 Description
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment    Fulfllment                     of
Agreement   Section              Type       Status        Date           Date                   Covenant                             Comments
Loan          3.01 (a)             5          CP                                    Borrower and implementing           Compliance by the Borrower was
agency's commitment to the project   deficient. The commitment of Project
objectives, including provision of  implementing agencies (EMBRATER,
funds, facilities, services and    EMBRAPA and then MAARA) was
resources.                         affected by financial, political and
institutional factors and varied over
time.
3.01 (b)            3           C                                     SIN to provide advances in cruzados  Satisfactoty. (A new currency, the
into project account               cruzado, was introduced in 1986,
followed by another new currency, the
real, in 1994).
3.01 (c)            3          CD                                     Borrower to make the proceeds of    Complied, with delays.
the loan available to MAARA
3.02 (a) (b)        4           C                                     Borrower to enter into a convenio   All the contracts were signed.
with each state or territory providing
responsibility for implementation of
part of project, including
percentages of participation in
funding
Coveand Tye:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Final perfonmance/generAat revenue from bcneficiar2es; 3 Flow and uilizion of Projec funds; 4 Coutapat fundig; 5 Managecmnt apet of  Projed
or of its exectng agencr, 6 Eavionnanal covenas; 7 lnvohhtay remel   S Indigenous people; 9 Monoring, review and rporting 10 Iniplementaion; 11 Sectoral or
u,saectoral budgetary or oder resowure allocation; 12 Secoral or crsoral regulaorymtitutionalactin; 13 Other
Stats:          C         = covena complied with                             NC      = not complied with
CD       = complied with afler delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP       = complied with patially                           SOON   = comphance pcte m remonably ot time



- 29 -
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION H PROJECT
(Loan 2769-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original      Revised                Description
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                   of
Agreement   Section             Type       Status       Date          Date                   Covenant                           Comments
Loan         3.03                5           C                                   Executing Agencies to procure goods  Some problems in 1988 and 1989, in
(Continued)                                                                      and services under the project in  EMBRATER's financial controls and
accordance with Schedule II of the    accounting.
Project Agreement
3.04               5           C                                   Borrower/Executing Agencies to    Satisfactory.
insure and maintain equipment and
property, in accordance with
provisions set forth in General
Conditions
4.01 (i)-(iv)       I         CD                                   Borrower to have the Special      Complied, with delays.
Account for each fiscal year audited
Project      2.01 (a)            5          CP                                   EMBRATER to carry out and cause   The changed Federal/State relationship
state extension agencies to carry out   after 1988 and subsequent abolition of
the project with due diligence and  EMBRATER, as well as fiscal and
efficiency.                       economic events, adversely affected the
ability of the agencies responsible for
the project to comply with this covenant.
2.01 (b)            5          C                                   EMBRATER (later EMBRAPA and   Fulfilled.
MAARA) obligation to maintain a
project account in Banco do Brasil
2.02                5          C                                   Procurement shall be governed by  Generally satisfactory throughout,
the provisions of Schedule II of  except for problems under
Project Agreement                 EMBRATER, in the financial controls
and accounting for procurement.



- 30 -
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Loan 2769-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original      Revised                Description
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                   of
Agreement   Section            Type       Status        Date          Date                  Covenant                            Comments
Project      2.03                5           C                                   EMBRATER (EMBRAPA,                All convenios were signed.
(Continued)                                                                      MAARA) to enter into convenio
with state extension agencies
defining responsibilities for project
implementation
2.04                5          C                                   EMBRATER (EMBRAPA,                Fulfilled.
MAARA) to send POA draft to the
Bank
2.05                5          C                                   EMBRATER (EMBRAPA,                Satisfactory.
MAARA) to carry out the
obligations set forth in general
conditions relating to insurance, etc.
2.06 (a) (b)        5          C                                   EMBRATER (EMBRAPA,                Fulfilled.
MAARA) to exchange views with
the Bank regarding progress and to
inform it of any conditions which
might interfere with this progress
2.08 (a) (b)        5         CD      Dec. 31, 1986                EMBRATER to carry out alternative  Fulfilled with delays. In terms of
financing study and present       outcome, reconmnendations of the study
reconmnendations to the Bank for  were not accepted by the Bank but no
comment.                         follow-up occurred to revise or re-
initiate the study.
2.09                5         NC      Dec. 31, 1989                EMBRATER to review with the       Not fulfilled. Evidence strongly
Bank progress in carrying out the  suggests Mid-Term Review did not
project and extent to which       occur.
objectives are being achieved (Mid-
Term Review).



-31 -
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Loan 2769-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised               Description
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                    of
Agreement   Section             Type       Status        Date          Date                   Covenant                           Comments
Project       3.02/3.03           5          C                                    State obligation to ensure insurance   Fulfilled.
(Continued)                                                                       and maintenance of equipment and
other property
4.01 (a) (b) (c)    I         NC                                    EMBRATER (EMBRAPA,                 Fulfilled.
MAARA) to maintain and retain for
one year after the closing date
records and accounts reflecting its
operations and financial situation.
Note: Status rating is a time-slice which does not reflect the cumulative experience of covenant compliance over time.



- 32 -
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Lack of reliable data on farm level costs, rates of adoption for individual products, prices and
conversion factors precludes the re-estimation of the IERR. However, there is reason to believe
that the net incremental value of production was high enough to cover the project's investment
cost and produce an hERR greater than the appraisal estimate.
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                    Negotiations                                  TOTAL
YEAR                                    through Board
Preparation     Appraisal       Approval       Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1985         13.2                                                                        13.2
1986          7.1           31.6            4.0               5.3                        48.0
1987                                                         19.5                        19.5
1988                                                         14.3                        14.3
1989                                                          1.6                         1.6
1990                                                          7.7                         7.7
1991                                                         11.0                         11.0
1992                                                         15.9                        15.9
1993                                                         22.2                        22.2
1994                                                         13.3                        13.3
1995                                                         14.2                        14.2
1996                                                          2.2                         2.2
1997                                                          0.2          12.8          13.0
Total         20.3           31.6            4.0            127.4           12.8         196.1
USs'000
1985         20.8                                                                        20.8
1986         14.1           51.6            7.5               8.3                        81.5
1987                                                         30.2                        30.2
1988                                                         22.4                        22.4
1989                                                          3.4                         3.4
1990                                                         14.0                        14.0
1991                                                         15.2                        15.2
1992                                                         24.3                        24.3
1993                                                         36.4                        36.4
1994                                                         25.6                        25.6
1995                                                         22.2                        22.2
1996                                                          3.6                         3.6
1997                                                          0.3          22.2          22.5
Total         34.9           51.6            7.5            205.9          22.2          322.1
Sourc: COS



- 33 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/  No. of   in    staff skills    Impl.      Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field  represented     Status    Objectives   problems
Through          12/84      1      7         Ag          n/a        n/a           n/a
Appraisal        2/85      1       10      InstDev       n/a        n/a           n/a
4/85      2       17     Ag/Arch        n/a        n/a           n/a
Appraisal        9/85      5       35     Ag/Archl       n/a        n/a           n/a
through Board                             InstDev
Approval
Board Approval   5/86      2       28     Ag/Arch        n/a        n/a           n/a
through          10/86      1      4         Ag           2           1           Fin
Effectiveness
Supervision      6/87      2       16        Ag           2          2            Fin
3/88      2       15       Ag           2           2           Fin
11/89     1       4         Ag           3          3       Inst, Fin, Adm
5/90      1       1        Ag           3           3       Inst, Fin, Adm
11/90     1       13        Ag           3          3       Inst, Fin, Adm
3/91      1       3        Ag           3           3       Inst, Fin, Adm
9/91      1       10       Ag            3          3       Inst, Fin, Adm
5/92      2      25        Ag           2           2         Fin, Tech
12/92      3       1    Ag[Ec/AgEc       n/a        n/a      Inst, Fin, Adm
5/93      2       4        Ag           2           2       Inst, Fin, Adm
10/93     1       2         Ag           U          U       Inst, Fin, Adm
3/95      2       3        Ag           U           U       Inst, Fin, Adm
6/96         Updated form 590            S          U         Fin, Adm
a/ A form 590 was not generated for this mission. Between December 1992 and October 1994, while an
agreement was being sought regarding reformulation of the project, the missions that visited the field did
not produce a formal Aide Memoire or back-to-office report.



- 34 -
TABLE 12. APPLICATION OF LOAN RESOURCES BY STATE AND EXPENSE CATEGORY
(USS '000)
Region/State                                              Investment Category 1                                          Total
1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8
North                          2,897.47     1,372.85      91.18     5,904.12    2,789.18      420.05      737.52      439.43    14,651.79
Para                           944.95       224.91        0.00     3,220.46     646.16        0.00         0.00      156.45     5,192.93
Acre                            189.40      236.84       91.18      804.33      362.04        0.00        99.26        6.91     1,789.96
Amazonas                       604.85        29.91        0.00      354.77      423.83      367.97       147.79       87.09     2,016.21
Rond6nia                       566.15       366.30        0.00      231.60      213.11        0.00        49.69       68.59     1,495.44
Amap                            152.74      111.09        0.00      549.66      759.98        0.00       308.76       92.03     1,974.26
Roraima                        203.65        28.92        0.00      716.17      213.99        0.00        59.34       26.72     1,248.79
Tocantis                       235.73       374.88        0.00       27.12      170.06        52.08       72.67        1.63      934.17
Northeast                      10,614.37    3,427.25       0.00     6,259.29    2,450.39      271.83     1,261.49     100.59    24,385.21
Piaui                         1,838.98       27.15        0.00      351.81       28.89       122.99       48.75        0.92     2,419.49
Alagoas                         354.36      614.87        0.00      508.76      142.63        10.26       16.42        3.20     1,650.50
Ceara                         2,185.19      351.19        0.00     1,062.67     441.53        0.00       361.16        3.06     4,404.80
Rio Grande doNorte              810.54    1,251.76        0.00      608.23      439.80        0.00       345.05       19.58     3,474.96
MaanhAo                       1,022.34        0.00        0.00      297.33        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00     1,319.67
Paraiba                       1,014.19      334.73        0.00     1,273.02     357.92        0.00        28.51        4.65     3,013.02
Pernambuco                     843.12       450.77        0.00      635.37      440.65        0.00        25.61       11.81     2,407.33
Bahia                         1,924.52      212.43        0.00     1,048.30     338.98        0.00       293.85       53.08     3,871.16
Sergipe                        621.14       184.37        0.00      473.79      259.99       138.58      142.14        4.27     1,824.28
Southeast                       5,386.61    2,525.68    1,627.09    4,590.60    2,111.52        0.00      784.91      306.61    17,333.03
MinsGerais                    3,928.46    1,852.68     1,627.09    3,342.57     923.61        0.00       367.26      206.17    12,247.84
Espirito Santo                  568.19       90.86        0.00      397.03      282.28        0.00        99.85       37.97     1,476.18
Rio de Janeiro                  889.96      582.14        0.00      851.01      905.63         0.00      317.80       62.47     3,609.01
South                          7,013.80     4,020.64       0.00     5,691.68    2,291.49        0.00     4,960.72    1,209.26    25,187.59
Parani                        2,673.96     1,034.52       0.00     2,885.77    1,246.04        0.00      330.06      314.18     8,484.53
Santa Catarina                1,714.76    1,732.22        0.00      760.99      210.53        0.00     3,606.41      585.71     8,610.62
Rio Grande do Sul             2,625.08     1,253.90       0.00     2,044.92     834.92         0.00    1,024.25      309.37     8,092.44
Center-West                    2,944.82     1,070.32       0.00     2,519.13    2,272.31    2,220.76      253.05       71.10    11,351.50
Mato Grosso do Sul              796.28      346.84        0.00      878.70      350.79        31.11      103.62        1.66     2,509.00
MatoGrosso                     814.61       276.36        0.00      596.07     1,075.17    1,374.21       92.27        1.59     4,230.28
Goias                         1,148.60      373.83        0.00      597.11      671.22       815.44        8.73       28.63     3,643.56
Distrito Federal                185.32       73.29        0.00      447.25       175.14       0.00        48.43       39.23      968.66
Total                         28,857.07    12,416.75    1,718.27    24,964.82    11,914.90   2,912.64    7,997.69    2,126.99    92,909.12
ICftognes: I = Eligible salaries; 2 = Training; 3 = Consultants' services; 4  Vehicles and spare parts; S = Equipment and furiture; 6 = Civil works; 7 = Inputs and
materials; 8 = Supervision, monitoring and evaluation.



- 35 -
TABLE 13. PROJECT COSTS BY STATE AND EXPENSE CATEGORY
(USS '000)
Region/State                                               Investment Category'                                          Total
1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8
North                           6,270.09    2,271.46      91.18    12,566.08    6,622.55      968.62     1,600.30     944.86    31,335.15
Para                          2,044.86      372.12        0.00     6,854.30    1,534.23       0.00         0.00      336.40    11,141.91
Acre                           409.85       391.86       91.18     1,711.91     859.61         0.00      215.38       14.86     3,694.65
Amazonas                      1,308.89       49.48        0.00      755.08     1,006.34      848.53      320.68      187.25     4,476.25
Rond6nia                      1,225.15      606.07        0.00      492.92      506.01         0.00      107.83      147.49     3,085.47
Amapa                           330.53      183.81        0.00     1,169.87    1,804.48        0.00      669.97      197.89     4,356.55
Roraima                        440.70        47.86        0.00     1,524.26     508.09        0.00       128.76       57.46     2,707.13
Tocantins                       510.11      620.26        0.00       57.73      403.79       120.10      157.69        3.51     1,873.19
Northeast                      22,969.42    5,670.58       0.00    13,322.02    5,818.14      626.83     2,737.22     216.28    51,360.49
Piaui                         3,979.54       44.92        0.00      748.79       68.60       283.61      105.77        1.98     5,233.21
Alagoas                         766.82    1,017.34        0.00     1,082.82     338.67       23.66        35.62        6.89     3,271.82
Ceara                         4,728.74      581.06        0.00     2,261.74    1,048.36        0.00      783.65        6.58     9,410.13
RioGrandedoNorte              1,754.00    2,071.10        0.00     1,294.54    1,044.26       0.00       748.71       42.11     6,954.72
MaranhAo                      2,212.33        0.00        0.00      632.83        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00     2,845.16
Paraiba                       2,194.70      553.82        0.00     2,709.44     849.83         0.00       61.87       10.01     6,379.67
Pernambuco                    1,824.51      745.82        0.00     1,352.30    1,046.25       0.00        55.57       25.39     5,049.84
Bahia                         4,164.64      351.47        0.00     2,231.17     804.85         0.00      637.60      114.14     8,303.87
Sergipe                       1,344.14      305.05        0.00     1,008.40     617.31       319.57      308.42        9.18     3,912.07
Southeast                      11,656.58    4,178.88    1,627.09    9,770.46    5,013.53        0.00     1,703.13     659.28    34,608.94
MinasGerais                   8,501.15    3,065.37     1,627.09    7,114.18    2,192.99        0.00      796.89      443.30    23,740.97
Espirito Santo                1,229.56      150.33        0.00      845.02      670.25         0.00      216.66       81.65     3,193.47
Rio de Janeiro                1,925.87      963.18        0.00     1,811.25    2,150.29       0.00       689.58      134.32     7,674.49
South                          15,177.80    6,652.38       0.00    12,113.94    5,440.85        0.00    10,763.95    2,600.17    52,749.08
ParanA                        5,786.42    1,711.67        0.00     6,141.95    2,958.56       0.00       716.18      675.56    17,990.34
Santa Catarina                3,710.72    2,866.05        0.00     1,619.67     499.88        0.00     7,825.32     1,259.40    17,781.04
Rio Grande do Sul             5,680.66    2,074.65        0.00     4,352.31    1,982.41       0.00     2,222.45      665.22    16,977.70
Center-West                    6,372.56     1,770.91       0.00     5,361.62    5,395.30     5,121.03     549.07      152.89    24,723.39
MatoGrossodoSul               1,723.15      573.87        0.00     1,870.20     832.90        71.74      224.83        3.56     5,300.25
Mato Grosso                   1,762.81      457.25        0.00     1,268.66    2,552.85    3,168.91      200.22        3.43     9,414.13
Goias                         2,485.56      618.53        0.00     1,270.86    1,593.71    1,880.39       18.93       61.55     7,929.53
Distrito Federal                401.04      121.26        0.00      951.90      415.84        0.00       105.09       84.35     2,079.48
Total                          62,446.45    20,544.20   1,718.27    53,134.11    28,290.37   6,716.49    17,353.67   4,573.49   194,777.04
Categories: I = Eligible salaries; 2 = Training; 3 = Consultants' services; 4 = Vehicles and spare parts; 5 = Equipment and furniture; 6 = Civil works; 7 = Inputs and
materials; 8 = Supervision, monitoring and evaluation.



- 36 -
TABLE 14. BENEFICIARIES, PHYSICAL STRUCTURE AND EXTENSION PERSONNEL
1987             1995
Beneficiaries
Small Producers                 1,005,704        1,532,251
Medium Producers                  78,608          161,777
Subtotal                       1,084,312         1,694,982
Rural Women                           --          330,069
Rural Young                           --           95,063
Subtotal                              --          425,132
Total                           1,084,312       2,119,160
Physical Structure
Municipal/District Offices         3,172            4,173
Field Extension Agents                    3,246            9,933
Source: DATER/MAARA
TABLE 15. YIELDS OF PRINCIPAL SMALL FARM COMMODITIES
Commodity           Small         Unit                      Average Yield
Farmer                    On Small Farms          On Small Farms
Participation                 Not Receiving            Receiving
in National               Extension Assistance   Extension Assistance
Production                (Appraisal Estimate        (199411995)
(%)                        1985/1986)
North/       South/
Northeast   Southeast/
Center-West
I. Cotton                  60          kg/ha            498                630          1,530
2. Rice (not irrigated)    65          kg/ha           1,536              1,800         2,800
3. Beans                   60          kg/ha            447                690           885
4. Manioc flour            90          kg/ha          10,884             12,650        14,500
5. Corn                    65          kg/ha           1,485              2,000         3,350
6. Garlic                  90          kg/ha           3,018              4,800        4,984
7. Tomato                  60          kg/ha          25,168             34,950       43,508
8. Potato                  65          kg/ha           7,500             10,527        14,608
9. Milk                    70       liter/lactation     498                610           980
10. Swine                  75        kg/head/yr          90                  --          120



- 37 -                Appendix
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Loan 2679-BR)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION



APPENDIX I
M2ZST#.RJ0 DA AGRICLILTUA E DO ABASTECIMZNTO - MA
SECRETARIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO RURAL - SDR
D&T.ARTAMENTO DE ASSISTENCT. TCE.TCA E EXTENSAC RT!lJA.L - DATER
Brngilia, June 5, 1997.
Subject:   C menatas = the Implementaion Czmnplection Report of the Agsicultura
Extrauion 1 Project.
Dear.wM. Barbosa,
At your requs, we hvg reviewed the above IC3. and we exmrss our agreemeM, in
gMin ter=, with i coter..
We hrave deetd mm  mistakes but they do not jeep-di= th. iOmpseiom Ive
by thm  document. We agree it reflects appropitely the usesmem  of projtct
per*rn=noe.
Sinerdy,
Assesor
Projec: Coordinar
?4r. THlio Barboua
Head. Warld Bank Ofce in RcWfe
R=ife - PE



MAP SECTION






IBRD 19375
V E N E Z U E L A            c               (FREN          S           PROJECT I (Constructed)
~ ISURINAMEUIANA~
I                             -<                      JSURINAME9             STATE OFFICES
C O L O MBI A                                                                                   A TRAINING OFFICES
BOA   A                                                     LOCAL OFFICES (Number of offices In state)
_   ~ .S.  Cfy  -';                      <          g>t         *;PROJECT Z (To be constructed)
[  L\_p                                                i.      ,       S  STATE OFFICES
9        ;            Z   . .i               .   >        <AcAeAir                *A  TRAINING OFFICES
-D  -~              - xa=- =94  t| (i @t < @ LOCAL OFFICES(Number of offices In state)"
~nlEM
'.1/  --            ,7'  '    W            tv 7' KM AANAUS                                                   J            A,o  4   .V
~~~-<                                                            /        A~~~~~~~ A A    A
1     _     ,, / , q q TERESINA
N  ~ ~ ~                     ~~                                                                    ,~~~AAcBIO~AA
. t            AO~~~~~~~RTO VELIHO   2>*                                                                            iC 
P R O BRAINS                                                                                                                    .
P E~ R U   i                                                                                      k _   .  '  Q$ t  '   A,0 SALVADOR  -
CUIA8     ASeA
)     C '*ABEGe                BRASILJA.*,    *  A *)           
2                                          BRASILJA~~~~  EMB DF                                        A
r  GOIANIA        EBD           
B O   L I V IA                                      OO4AN00b.
P A C/  F/ C          \                                    CAMPO  DNDE                              *    A        ,TEORA1
t ti __ r><  t _  .  i  -  *(3  e  i  4  r/                -EOOIOT
O C EA /V                     N                 J |  ,2 \PARAGUAY -
'CHILE?                       v-~~~~~              SAO PAULO-     PJSoJANEIRO
>   ~                  A                   0 H
~~~~~~  (I ~ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ BAI
CURITIBAO                           BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION R PROJECT
v      NA
-     FLORIAN4WI"
j OT                                                                         AA~4
BE RAZIL1/                  A   R G   E N   T NA
) AMERICA -      Z                                               POR A                                         *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
.  ,-"'-~...-"-' .- ,                                         '"I.2~'~~ .                                      STATE CAPITALS
",  . ) II:IhrSC I  s F ,'                   j '               , )       KI.OMSSE1eR$ 700 200 300 400 5O
__________________   STATE  BOUNDARIES
-.    - I'. * {                                                  AS \  ,  ^MLES O   )00 *00  30       _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
URUGUAY                                              -  -   RIVERS                      10'_
00' I50.'65  ~R,   .                                    40'                          30*
NOVEMBER 1985









IMAGING
Report No.:         16687
Type:     ICR



