Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12235-Tr
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 18, 1994
MICRJGRAPHICS
Report No:        12235 TH
Type: SAR
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1993)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
USS1      =  B 25.0
GOVERNMENT AND PEA FISCAL YEAR
October I to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ckm        -        circuit-kilometers
kV         -        kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA        -        ki]ovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
kW         -        kilowatt (1,000 watts)
km         -        kilometer
kWh        -        kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
rjWh       -        gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
MMt        -        million metric tonnes
MVA        -        megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-arnperes)
MW         -        megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
LV         -        Low Voltage
ADBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -        Asian Development Bank
CIDA       -        Canadian International Development Agency
DEA        -        Department of Energy Affairs
DSM        -        Demand-Side Management
EGAT       -        Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ERR        -        Economic Rate of Return
FPO        -        Fiscal Policy Office
GAAP       -        Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
ICB        -        International Competitive Bidding
IFRR       -        Internal Financial Rate of Return
KFAED    -          Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW        -        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB        -        Local Competitive Bidding
MEA        -        Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MIS        -        Management Information System
MOF        -        Ministry of Finance
NEPC       -        National Energy Policy Council
NEPO       -        National Energy Policy Office
NESDB      -        National Economic and Social Development Board
OECF       -        Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
OPEC       -        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR        -        Project Completion Report
PDP        -        Power Development Plan
PEA        -        Provincial Electricity Authority
PPAR       -        Project Performance Audit Report
PTT        -        Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RE         -        Rural Electrification
ROR        -        Rate of Return
RTG        -        Royal Thai Government
SFR        -        Self-Financing Ratio
SOE        -        Statement of Expenditures
TDSM       -        Transmission and Distribution System Management
TOE        -        Tons of Oil Equivalent



THAWD
DISTREBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEENT PROJECT
STAWF APPRAiSAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ........................................
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR .1
A. Overview .
B. Energy Sector Institutons.                                            2
C. The Power Sector.                                                     3
D. Sectoral Strategy and Issues.                                         6
E.   Private Sector Participation in the Power Sector.                   7
F. Bank Lending for the Sector.                                          8
H. THE BORROW .                                                                    11
A. Organization and Management .11
B.   Staffing and Training ............ .....  ........                  2
C. Operational Performance .14
D.   Financial and Information Management .14
E. Corporaization/Privatizato .16
m. THE PRQCeECT .17
A. Project Background .17
B. Project Objectives and Description .17
C. Cost Estimates .19
D. Impeetio......                                                       20
E. Environment .21
P. Financig Plan .21
G. Procurement .22
H. Disbursements .23
IV.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .24
A. Past Performance .24
B. Financial Outlook .27
C.   Tariff Level and Stauc.tue                                         29
D. Financing Plan .30
This report is based on the fidings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in June 1993,
comprising John Irving (Senior Power Engineer) and Margaret Hanson Costan (Financial Analyst). The
infonnation vas subsequendy updated in August 1994.



- ii 
Page No.
V.        PROJECT JUSTIFCATION  .............................                     32
A.   Economic Analysis .................................               32
B.   Risks ...........         ..............................          33
VI.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..........    34
A.   Agreements .....................................                  34
B.   Recommendation ..................................                  34
ANNEXES
1. Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations
2. PEA's Demand Forecast
3. PEA's Distribution Facilities
4.  PEA's Investment Program
S. Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for Institutional Development
6. Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for Design & Implementation
7.1 Scope of 115kV Subtransmission Component & Implementation Plan
7.2 Scope of Village Electrification Component
8. Project Cost Estimate
9. Disbursement Schedule
10. Bank Supervision Plan
11. PEA's Past Financial Performance
12. PEA's Financial Projections
13. PEA's Tariff Structure
14. Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
15. List of Documents in Project File
CHARTS
1. PEA's Organization Chart
2.1  Implementation Schedule: Subtransmission Component
2.2 Village Electrification Component
MAP
1. PEA Service Areas - IBRD No. 25072
2. The Project - IBRD No. 25073



- iii -
THAIAND
DIRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFRCfMENT PROJECT
Loa= and Preject Summary
Borrower:                         Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA)
Guarantor:                       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                           US$50 million equivalent
Leding Terms:                     Repayable over 17 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
ProJect Objectives:               The main objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to expand
the provincial 115kV subtransmission and thereby reinforce the
22kA' distribution system to meet the growth in power demand
in the provincial areas at optimum levels of losses and
reliability; (b) to complete PEA's rural electrification program
by extending existing 22kV feeder networks to 1,000
unelectrified and 10,000 partally electrified villages; (c) to
assist PEA in studying and planning its corporatization and
possible regionalization and privatization; and (d) to ensure
through the monitoring of appropriate financial covenants that
PEA's financial strength remains adequate to support its
growth.  Specifically, the project would involve:  (a)
construction of 19 115/22kV substations aggregating about 800
MVA in capacity and 19 115kV subtransmission lines with a
total length of about 925 km; (b) construction of about 5,500
km of 22kV lines, 84 MVA of distribution transformers, 8,000
km of LV lines and connections to 120,000 consumers; (c)
consulting services regarding corporatization and potential
regionalization and privatization of PEA; and (d) consulting
services for engineering and design. The Bank loan will
finance the subtransmission line component together with the
foreign cost elements of the distribution system development
program. The foreign costs of the substation components will
be financed by KfW and UK ODA. During the course of the
project, PEA would formulate and implement pilot DSM
programs in the provincial areas for improving the efficiency of
lighting systems, refrigerators, air conditioners and agricultural
pumping.



- iv -
Benefits and Risas:               The continuing surge in electricity demand in the PEA service
territory has made it imperative for PEA to expand and
reinforce its distribution systems to deliver power to new areas
and improve the reliability and quality of supply during the
early 1990s. The project forms an important part of PEA's
least-cost expansion program and its implementaticn would help
ensure the country's continued economic growth and the
Government's promotion of industrial growth in the northern
regions of Thailand. It would also extend electricity availability
to those villages which do not yet have access to power. The
basic planning of the distribution system in the area to be
served by the project has been comprehensively carried out
during the feasibility study stage. Detailed project design, with
assistance of consultants to be appointed under the project,
should therefore proceed fairly smoothly. Implementation of
the transmission lines and substations is being planned on a
single responsibility basis using turnkey contracts which should
result in speedy execution of the project. The risk of delay in
timely execution of the project, which could affect progress of
industrial and commercial development in the area, could be
due to delays in taking decisions on procurement. Accordingly,
specific milestone dates for procurement have been set and
should be closely monitored by the Bank. The risk of load
growth not materializing as forecast is minimal, given the
development potential of the area. However, the project retms
are robust enough to maintain its economic viability at slower
than anticipated growth in energy sales.
Poverty Cateaory:                 Specific project activity with a poverty reduction focus,
involves the electrification of the villages that have been
considered to date too remote from major load centers to be
financially viable in implementing the earlier stages of PEA's
rural electrification program. It addresses the poverty issue
indirectly through increased employment opportunities and
productivity in the rural sector.



Estimated Cost: /a
Local       Forei         Total
---(US$ million)--
Subtransmission Lines                   89.5          23.6        113.1
Substations                             27.1          34.5         61.6
Rural Electrification                   58.5          18.1         76.6
Consultancy Services                     0.3           0.7          1.0
Duties and Taxes                        20.6           0.0         20.6
Total Base Cost                    196.0          76.9       272.9
Contingencies
Physical                                 17.8          6.5         24.3
Price                                   45.4           7.7         53.1
Total Cost                         29.2           91.1        350.2
Interest dunng Construction         18.6           6.2        24.8
Total Fincing Reauired             277.8          97.2        375.0
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.
Financing F m:
Local       Foreien       Total
(US$ million)
Sources
IBRD                                                50.0         50.0
KfW                                                 29.4         29.4
UK Government                           -           10.9         10.9
Other Borrowings                      148.3          6.9        155.2
Equity for RE Development              30.0          0.0         30.0
Internal Cash Generation                            0.0          99.5
Total                               277.8         97.2        375.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                            FY95      PY96      PY97       FY98
(US$ million)
Annual                             6.5       21.9      14.3       7.3
Cumulative                         6.5       28.4      42.7      50.0
Economic Rate of Return: 17%.



THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTE1M REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
I. TBE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1        The consumption of energy and electricity in Thailand has grown at high rates over the past
decade due to the strong economic performance of the country, arising from rapid industrial growth, and
increases in exports, foreign investment and tourism. The total supply of commercial energy in Thailand
was about 33 million tons oil equivalent (toe) in 1991 -- a two-and-a-half fold increase over 1980 - and
growing at an average rate of 11% per year. Petroleum represented 62% of the total, natr gas 21%,
lignite 13 %, hydro power 3 %, and coal 1%, and 60% of the supply was imported. In addition, Thailand
consumed about 10 million toe of renewable energy in 1991, mainly in the form of wood fuels. Despite
the cointry's impressive economic growth, per capita energy consumption in Thailand is a modest 540
kIlogramn oil equivalent, with a relatively high share (25%) of traditional fuels in the final erergy
consumption. This is explained by the size of the rural population and the relatively high price of
commercial energy compared with rural income levels, which places commeicial energy beyond the reach
of the lower-income group.
1.2        Demand for commercial energy is growing rapidly. In addition it exceeds domestic
supplies, and in view of the continued and rapid economic growth expected in Thailand and the uncertain
prospects of discovering firther major oil and gas reserves, this gap is likely to increase in the future.
The Government is concerned about the country's relying more heavily on energy imports, and it is also
concerned about the environmental impact of energy production and consumption. It is fully committed
to develop the energy sector in an environmentally sound manner. Table 1. 1 shows past consumption of
primary energy by sources.
Table .1: PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SOURCES
(million toe)
Energy Sources    1985      1991
Oil                  10.5     20.5
Natural Gas          3.2       7.0
Hydro Power          0.9        1.1
Coal/Lignite         1.6       4.5
Renewable            11.2      10.8
Total               27.4      43.9



-2 -
1.3       Final commercial energy consumption in the economy is dominated by tLe transport sector,
which in 1991 accounted for 39%, followed by the industrial sector (31%), and residential and
commercial sectors (24%). Traditional fuels continue to represent a significant albeit rapidly declining
share of energy consumption in the rural residential sector. Table 1.2 presents energy consumption by
sectors.
Table 1.2: FINAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SECTORS
(million toe)
Sector           1985   1991
Agriculture               1.4    1.8
Industry                  5.4    9.6
Residential and Commercial  6.1    7.2
Transportation            6.0   11.9
Total                    18.9   30.5
1.4        Electricity constitutes a significant portion of total energy consumed in Thailand. Meeting
the fuel needs in the power sector is a particularly critical issue, since electricity demand has grown by
about 15% a year over the last three years: to meet projected demand for the yesr 2000, the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) needs to double its generating capacity from the current 11,000
MW to about 22,000 MW. In 1991, the fuels used to generate power included natural gas (40%), lignite
(25%) and heavy oil (24%), while the share of hydro was about 9%.
B. Ener SeLr Ind
1.5       A number of well managed public institutions operate in the energy sector. The Petroleum
Authority of Thailand - the dominant entity in the petroleum sector - is responsible, int Ai&, for the
purchase, transport, processing and sale of natural gas. The power sector is organized around three state
enteprises: the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is responsible for power generation
and transmission, and the Metropolitan Electricity Autherity (MEA) and the Provincial Electricity
Authority (PEA) are responsible for power distribution in the Bangkok metropolitan area and the rest of
the country, respectively. Highlights of the operations of EGAT, MEA and PEA are included in
Annex 1.
1.6        Energy sector policy and planning involve the National Economic and Social Development
Board (NESDB), which is under the Office of the Prime Minister and oversees pubic invesnment



-3.-
pianning; the Department of Energy Affairs (DEA), under the Ministry of Science, Technology and
Enviren.'nent, which is primarily engaged in the promotion of energy conservation and the development
of renewable resources; the Departnent of Mineral Resources and the Departnent of industries, both
under the Ministry of Industry, which are responsible, respectively, for regulating petroleum and lignite
exploration and production, and industries and private power producers, on behalf of the government.
The National Energy Policy Committee, which is responsible to the Cabinet on all matters related to
energy policy and planning, and the National Energy Policv Office (NEPO), which is responsible for
formulating national energy policy and national energy plars, serve as the overall coordinating agencies
for the entire energy sector.
1.7        While public enterprises engaged in the energy sector enjoy a large degree of autonomy in
the conduct of day-to-day operations, they are subject to govermment control in all matters related to
investment planning and financing. Although currently most state enterprises are also subject to
government control with regard to staffing levels, job classification, saiaries and benefits, procurement,
and asset write-off practices, these activities are scheduled for deregulation for enterprises achieving
"efficient state enterprise" status (para. 1.26). All loans made by public enterprises requiring govermment
gurantee must be approved by the National Debt Policy Committee and by the Cabinet, and subsequently
endorsed by the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) of the Ministry of Finance (MOP).
C. The Pwer Sedor
Ekdbkky Denad
1.8        The electricity market in Thaiand has grown at a very rapid pace o;er the past decade,
increasing at an annual rate of 12% through the decade and growing at a rate of 15% p.a. for the past
three years. While the growth has been fueled mainly by rapid GDP growth in the industrial sector, it
is further enhanced by the recent substantial expansion in the residential sector, both in urban and rural
areas. Considerable progress has been made in making electricity widely available throughout the
country, especially in provincial urban areas and in rural areas. This has resulted in a per capita
electricity consumption in Thailand of about 762 kWh in 1993. Similar trends are expected to prevail
in the future as the country's individual and socio-economic development contimnes. Total sales of
electricity by EGAT reached about 62,180 GWh in 1993, with the shares of industrial and commercial
sectors in electricity consumption accounting for 46% and 32%, respectively, or together totalling 78%
of total consumption. The residential sector accounted for another 21%, and the Govermment and other
public facilities about 1%.
1.9        The outlook is for continued rapid growth in electricity demand over the medium term. The
latest official demand forecast made by the National Load Forecast Subcommittee (composed inte ia
of NEPO, EGAT, PEA and MEA), envisages contined high load growth related to the expected strong
economic performance. It envisages a 9% growth rate in electricity consumption over the next decade.
This is reasonable in view of the high GDP growth rate anticipated for the same period (7.5%) and the
high historical elasticity of demand for electricity in periods of rapid economic growth.
1.10       During the past decade, electricity demand in PEA's provincial urban and rural areas has
grown much more rapidly than in MEA's franchise area of Bangkok. While MEA's sales growth over
the 1980s has been about 7% p.a., PEA's sales growth has averaged about 14% per year. In 1993, PEA
accounted for 53% of total electricity sales, compared with 34% ten years earlier. Due in part to the



-4-
Government's efforts to stimulate industrial expansion outside of Bangkok, a substantial portion of the
expected increase in electricity demand in the 1990s will fall within PEA's territory. While electricity
sales by MEA are expected to increase on average 8% p.a. over the next decade, sales by PEA will go
up by over 10% p.a.. PEA thus faces a major challenge to upgrade and expand its distribution systems
to meet its increasingly large and significant part of the power market. PEA's demand forecast is given
in Annex 2.
h3taWkd Capacty
1.11      As of September 1993, the total installed generating capacity of the Thai power subsector
was about 12,178 MW. Total generation from EGAT facilities was about 62,180 GWh in 19°3
accounting for almost 100% of the Thai total generation with PEA generating only 20 GWh from its
mini-hydro and diesel plants. In addition, 750 GWh were purchased from Laos and Malaysia.
1.12      Total losses in the system were approximately 15% of net generation. EGAT's power
losses, including both transmission and generation losses, amounted to about 9% of electricity produced,
with estimated transndssion losses and auxiliary consumption, each constituting about half of that number.
Distribution losses as a percentage of power received were about 5% for MEA and 7% for PEA, an
achievement by both organizations which ranks with the best pet-wrmhng power utilities in Asia.
1.13      High (69kV, 115kV) and extra-high (230kV, 500kV) voltage bulk power transmission lines
in Thailand, which are owned and operated by EGAT, total 20,005 circuit-iclometers (ckm) of lines,
including 1200 ckn constucted for 500kV. In addition to the construction of transmission lines and
substations required to evacuate the output of new generation plants, EGAT is progressively developing
a transmission system to extend coverage to the whole country. In 1990 the PEA Act was changed to
enable PEA to also build 115kV subtransmission systems. At present PEA owns about 485 ckm of 69kV
and 985 kn of 115kV line, but the latter is expected to extend to 2,000 km during the Seventh Plan
(1992-1996), accounting for about 30% of the 115kV network.
1.14      PEA's distribution system in Thailand, outside of Bangkok, includes 172,434 ckm of
medium voltage and 218,000 ckm of low voltage distribution lines and 13,000 MVA of transformer
capacity. The growth of PEA's distribution facilities is reflected in Annex 3. The bulk of PEA's
medium voltage distribution is carried out at 22kV and 33kV, with 22kV constituting almost 83% and
33kV almost 16% of the total network.
Nbwr Sector Iesnment PNgram
1.15      Meeting increased load demand and improving the electricity transmission and distribution
systems will require considerable investment, estimated at about US$28 billion equivalent over the next
ten years. Of this, investments by EGAT to expand the generation and transmission facilities are
estimated to be about US$15 billion. Investments by PEA and MEA of about US$9 billion and US$4
billion respectively will be needed to upgrade and expand their distribution facilities.
1.16      Investment by PEA ever the near-term will be used in part to finance continued distribution
of power to the provinces, which began on a planned basis in the early 1960s with the formation of the
organization. Central to PEA's rural electrification effort have been several Bank-financed projects,
including the Accelerated Rural Electrification Program, and the Normal Rural Electrification Program
(Loans 1527-TH and 1871-TH). Under these early rural electrification programs, villages requesting



-5 -
electrification had to provide materials (e.g., wooden poles and cross anns) and half of the labor needed.
In later years this practice was discontinued to facilitate compliance with stricter technical requirements
and specifications, and in its place a monetary contribution amounting to about 30% of the cost of village
electrification was substituted. This practice will continue to be used to help finance rural electrification
under the project.
1.17       As of 1993, PEA had accomplished electrification of 60,718 villages, achieving an
electrification ratio (including both fully and partially-electrified villages) of about 97%. At the current
rate of electrification of almost 2000 villages per annum, the electrification ratio is expected to reach
about 98% of all villages by the year 1996. Thereafter the pace of village electrification would slow
down to a rate of about 300 villages per annum, gradually progressing to an electrification ratio near
100% by about the year 2000. The project finances the last stages of PEA's rural electification program
wnder the Seventh Five-Year Development Plan.
1.18       With village electrification achieving its targets and being essentially completed under the
project, PEA's investments in rural electrification would be substantilly reduced in the latter part of the
1990s. Indeed, much of PEA's investment requirements over the next ten years will result from the
growing demand from industrial enterprises in PEA's service territory, and from the need to decrease
losses and improve reliability, especially in the north and northeasten parts of the country. It is this need
which underlies the project. Providing electricity increasingly to industrial operations will require PEA
to reinforce its 22kV systems, not only to meet the significantly expanded demand but also specifically
to provide the higher reliability required by industry. The growth and change in its customer base is
pushing PEA to become a very different utility than it has been in the past. In additon, legal changes
which allow PEA to own and operate 115kV facilities (formerly the domain of EGAT) encourage a
rationalizadon of the electricity system at the l15kV level. They provide the basis for PEA's
reinforcement program, reducing losses by providing more supply points at location where EGAT does
not have the same incentive to do so. PEA's invesments over the medium term would concentrate on:
(a) expanding and reinforcing distribution networks servicing large town centers; (b) providing direct
115kV service in high growth industrial areas; and (c) introducing improvements in systen operating
efficiency through measures such as the int --Auction of regional local distribution control centers.
1.19       PEA's investment plan is detailed in Anmex 4 and summarized in Table 1.3. The plan,
which is appropiiate to the present circumstances, will be updated regularly to reflect changes in the
amount and geographical location of power demand. It was agreed that PEA would carry out an annual
review and update of its five-year investment program. discuss this with the Bank. and implement the
roram takin into considiron the Bank's comments.



- 6 -
Table 1.3: PEA'S INMESTMENT PLAN (FY93-2001)
(in billion Baht)
Fiscal Year          1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Distribution System
Expansion and Reinforcement   8.5   15.3   7.7    8.4  11.8  10.7  15.2  15.3   16.2
Distribution System
Upgrading to 115kV            3.1    0.5   6.1    6.7   7.3   5.9   4.5   4.5   4.5
Load Dispatch Center           =      -      -      0.6   2.2   2.2   1.0   1.0   1.0
Rural Electrification          1.1    1.3   2.0    2.0   1.1  _-
Power Supply for New Economic
and Industrial Areas          0.6    0.3   2.1    1.9   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
S"engthening Operational and
Service Capability            .      0.7   2.6    1.7   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
hiini-hydro                    =      -      0.3    0.3    -      -     -
Submarine Cable                       -      0.1    0.5   0.8   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3
Research and Development       -      -      0.1           -      -            -      -
TOTAL                    13.4   18.1  21.1   22.2  20.7  22.6  24.5  24.6   25.5
D). Sectoal Saev  d   1is
1.20        To meet the rapidly increasing demand for energy, the government's energy strategy calls
for the following:
(a)   A substantially increased program of investments in the power subsector. The Government
envisages investments of over US$15 billion by EGAT over the next ten years, close to
US$9 brilion by PEA and US$5 billion by MEA.
(b)   Involvement of the private sector in funding part of the large power sector investments.
Concerned about the magnitude of the power sector investments and the implications for
public sector debt, the government is emphasizing the importance of a greatly enhanced role
for the private sector in funding power projects. Work is on-going to develop the
regulatory framework for private participation in the power sector, which would include
private participation through build-own-operate operations for generating facilities, or
possible sale of power utility equity on the securities markets (paras. 1.23-1.26).
(c) A thrust towards energy conservation, both through economically efficient pricing of
resources and through other government directives. Concerned with the rapid growth in
energy consumption and its impact on the economy and the environment, the government
is making serious efforts towards fostering energy conservation in all sectors of the
economy. Some of the initiatives are described in paras. 1.21-1.22 below.



- 7 -
(d)  A stimulation of industrial growth outside of Bangkok, with development of infrastructure
and granting of tax incentives to promote such growth. This would create growth centers
in the provincial areas relieving the infrastructural strain from Bangkok.
(e)  Improving the efficiency of the distribution system and up-grading the system to operate at
the higher levels of reliability necessary for industry.
DemdSide                 Iand Eletidty Cnseratio
1.21      In its Sixth Economic and Social Development Plan (1988-1992), the Government laid out
a policy framework for energy conservation. In 1992, the Govermnent passed the Energy Conservation
Promotion Act, which charges the National Energy Policy Council (NEPC) with setting policies and
targets for energy conservation. The Act also creates an Energy Conservation Fund, financed by
surcharges on energy including petroleum products and electricity. The Act empowers the Director
General of the Energy Development and Promotion Department with enforcing energy conservation in
factories and buildings designated for this purpose.
1.22      Consumption of electricity in Thailand has hitherto been primarily controlled through
electricity pricing, which has generally reflected long-run marginal cost. In compliance with agreements
under a World Bank loan to EGAT (Loan 2915-TH), time-of-day rates for large industria consums
were introduced to discourage use of electricity during system peak hours (pan. 4.17). In pursuit of a
more concerted effort towards electricity conservation, the Government approved in 1992 the Demand-
Side Management (DSM) Master Plan, which sets a target for saving about 225 MW/1,200 GWh of
electricity over the period 1992-1996, and tasks the three utilities EGAT, MEA and PEA with the
implementation of this plan. In the context of Loan 3598-TH to MEA, the GEF-funded "Promotion of
Electricity Energy Efficiency" project supports and helps to implement the DSM Master Plan. In this
context, PEA is cooperating with EGAT and the DSM office and has appointed three representatives to
the DSM Working Group (one each focussing on residential, commercial and industrial applications).
PEA employees, including meter readers and bill collectors, will be used to distribute information about
the demand side management program and to inspect DSM installations.
E. Prvate Sector  Elr~        In the 1te Sect
1.23      Over the last decade, the Government has looked to privatization as a means of reducing
public sector borrowing and increasing enterprise efficiency. It has reduced the size of the state
enterprise sector from about 100 to 63 state enterprises, and it has made a concerted effort to involve the
private sector in state enterprises through the partial sale of shares, private participation in the enterprises,
contracting out of services, and joint ventures. The Government invited Bank recommendations regarding
creating an enabling environment to maxmize private sector involvement in state enterprises and
establishing an efficient process towards divestiture. In this regard the Bank submitted a report to
Government in early 1994 and has prepared a follow-up study proposing specific policy and institutional
measures regarding the enabling environment.
1.24      In the power sector, with the rapid growth in power demand and the corresponding
increased magnitude of power subsector investments needed to meet this load growth, the Government
has established as a priority that the sector's financing requirements will be met in part through private



-8 -
sector participation. The recent exodus of technical employees from the public to the private sector
provides further incentive to privatize at least certain portion of the operations of the electric utilities.
1.25      The Government began its efforts towards privatization by formulating policies which
applied primarily to EGAT. Starting in 1988 with a policy paper prepared by NESDB, Govermment
suggested that privatization options for EGAT included both private sector participation in traditional
EGAT activities and also the listing of EGAT's shares on the Securities Exchange of Thailand. The
National Assembly passed an amendment to the EGAT Act in March 1992, allowing EGAT to establish
a subsidiary company which would own and operate specific generating facilities. It is intended that
about 51 % of the stock of the subsidiary (the Electricity Generating Company, Limited, or EGCO) would
be sold on the Stock Exchange by year end 1994. After its privatization the venture would compete with
other independent power producers for power purchase contracts with EGAT for future build-own-operate
(BOO) generating capacity. EGAT and Govermment would review the EGAT Investment Program and
would designate a portion of EGAT's investments to be constructed, owned and operated by EGAT, and
another portion to be supplied by BOO ventures.
1.26       Plans for further privatization in the power sector during the Government's Seventh Plan
Period (FY92-FY96) were formalized and approved by the Cabinet in September 1992. It is proposed
that by 1995, EGAT, MEA and PEA would achieve "efficient state enterprise" status as defined in a
Ministry of Finance directive which allows substantial deregulation for state enterprises meeting specified
financial and efficiency criteria (para. 2.22). This status would give them, for example, freedom from
Government salary structures and increased autonomy in day-to-day decision-making. By 1996, the
power utilities would be corporatized, with relevant legislation having been amended as required to
accomplish that. By 1997, EGAT shares are expected to be sold to the public, with Government
remaining as the majority stockholder.
1.27      PEA and MEA would be allowed by law (through revisions to the PEA and MEA Acts) to
form affiliated subsidiaries or joint venture companies to carry out specific activities. Whether PEA or
MEA would be privatized in whole or in part remains under study; consultancy services regarding the
corporatization and possible privatization of PEA and also regarding a more transparent regulatory
framework are included under the project (para. 3.6). It could be that PEA could contract more activities
out to the private sector, or that a portion of its equity could be sold to the private sector via the stock
market. Assessing the costs and benefits of a change in PEA's structure and ownership, and outlining
an implementation strategy for commercialization of and increased private sector involvement in PEA are
included in the terms of reference for the proposed consultancy services. In this context, PEA's tariffs
would be reviewed; existing cross-subsidies between urban and rural electricity users and between
consumers in various regions would be reconsidered - and perhaps either eliminated or made more
transparent.
F. Bank [L_dig for the Setor
1.28      The Bank has made 20 loans to Thailand for power, of which four have been made to PEA
(three for rural electrification and one for distribution reinforcement), one has been made to MEA for
improvement of its distribution system, and seventeen have been made to EGAT for expansion of
generation and transmission facilities. Three of the loans to PEA have been fully disbursed; the



- 9 -
Distribution System Upgrading Project (Loan 3404-TH) is disbursing more slowly than expected at the
initial phase of the project because of a change in consultants under the project (the consultants originally
selected went bankrupt) and because of delays in land procurement for substations. The loan to MEA
for the Distribution System and Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 3598-TH) was approved by the Bank's
Board in April 1993 and signed in July 1993; the project is on-going. Of the seventeen loans to EGAT,
twelve have been fully disbursed; the other three are progressing on schedule.
1.29       During the past ten years, PEA completed three Bank-financed projects for rural
electrification: the Accelerated Rural Electrification Project (Loan 1527-TH, completed in 1983), the
Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project (Loan 1871-TH, completed in 1987) and the Provincial
Power Distribution Project (Loan 2312-TH, completed in 1989). The corresponding project completion
reports (dated June 13, 1986, February 6, 1989, and July 6, 1990, respectively) and Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPAR #6269 dated June 13, 1986, PPAR #7756 dated April 1, 1989, and PPAR # 9016
dated September 14, 1990) show that the project objectives were largely accomplished. Indeed, the third
project overachieved its original electrification targets by electrifying 2,330 new villages as compared
with the appraisal estimate of 1,500, extending service to 10,021 rather than the estimated 1,500 partially
electrified villages, and supplying 224,741 households with electricity, against a forecast of 127,500.
The larger volume of work was possible within the loan amount because of the substitution of locally
available materials for imports. The increase in total project cost was about 25%. The design and
procurement delays under the ongoing Distribution System Upgrading Project teach the lesson that land
should be procured well in advance of design and procurement activities, and this has been done in the
context of the project. There is also a need for more streamlined procedures to deal with ICB
procurement, and to improve the quality of reporting of implementation. In this respect consultants will
be required to assist PEA to finalize bid evaluation procedures and introduce computerized project
management systems.
1.30       Through its continuing dialogue with the power subsector institutions, the Bank has been
instrumental in ensuring the sector's financial soundness and the cost effectiveness of the sector's
investments. Bank advice and assistance have helped Government address issues such as energy pricing
and increasing emphasis on environmental considerations, and have assured the development of the
electricity utilities as competent, well-managed and financially sound organizatons. Through its
Involvement with the Thai power sector, the Bank has not only helped finance the substantial investments
required in the power sector but also has helped Government formulate strategies to privatize specific
utility operations, and to prepare for corporatization and eventual privatization.
1.31       With specific regard to PEA, the Bank's association has contributed to PEA's institutional
development, focusing particularly on improving (i) strategic planning, (ii) project planning and
implementation, (iii) materials management, (iv) distribution system planning, (v) electronic data
processing and (vi) manpower development. Findings and recommendations of an institutional
development study completed under Loan 2312-TH were implemented with good results, with one
noteworthy example being PEA's corporate planning system, which has developed into an effective tool
for articulating corporate responsibilities and objectives and managing corporate activities. Under Loan
3404-TH consultancy services regarding institutional development resulted in recommendations related
to organizational structure and staffing, some of which already have been implemented. Others will be
assessed further and implemented in the context of corporatization and privatization; related consultancy
services are included under the project.



- 10-
Dak Strtg  ii the Sectw
1.32      The Bank has been actively involved with assisting the three Thai electric utilities in
planning and implementing large power system expansion programs, and in supporting their institutional
development. Through its involvement with the financing of PEA's programs, the Bank has assisted in
the formulation of sound planning and investment decisions in a rapidly changing environment, and it has
contributed to the institutional strengthening of PEA. This fifth Bank financed project with PEA
primarily addresses the issues of improving power distribution efficiency, poverty alleviation indirectly
by increasing employment opportunities and productivity in the rural sector, and organiztional
restructuring. Under the project the Bank would also be provided with an opportunity to work with PEA
and Government in their commitment to restructure the power sector, increase overall efficiency and
thereby improve the prospects for participation by the private sector. Also through its involvement in
the project, the Bank would contribute to supply-side efficiency improvements complementing its efforts
towards demand-side efficiency improvements for the entire electricity sector.
1.33      The government's power sector strategy closely foilows the Bank's policy paper for the
power sector, specifically with regard to the government's commitment to improve sector performance
trouugh commercialization and corporatization and to encourage private investment. The goverment
however has yet to address the need for a legal framework and regulatory process which will eventually
be required. At present, since PEA, MEA and EGAT are government corporations, the regulatory
finction handled by NEPO has performed satisfactorily   maintaining viable tariffs and high efficiency
of the respective organizations. Looking to the future, the government has requested the Bank's advice
m reviewing the legal and regulatory requirements for privatization of these and twelve other state
enterprises. In this context it can be expected to consider a number of options for the power sector, once
its fuure structure is determined. With regard to PEA, the project will address the issues of
commercialization and privatization by designing an implementation program for decentralization of its
regional operations within the next two years. At the same time the expansion of 115kV subransmission
ito the regions should reduce the number of interfices with EGAT, eventually providing conguous
areas of operations for PEA's regional companies, giving them greater flexibility to optimize investment
in distribution. This development is expected to eventually provide a more attractive basis for private
investors to participate in offering a variety of services, including direct sales of power to each of dte
regional companies.



- 11 -
IL THE BORROWER
2.1        The Borrower of the loan would be the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), which was
established in September 1960 under the Provincial Electricity Act (BE-2503) as a state enterprise
reporting to the Ministry of Interior. PEA is responsible for the distribution of electricity throughout the
country except in the metropolitan Bangkok area, which is served by MEA. PEA's service area is shown
in Map 2 (IBRD No. 25072). At the end of FY93, PEA had over 8 million consumers, nearly 30,000
emnployees, and about 1300 work offices and work depots grouped into 12 regional areas. In FY93, over
99% of PEA's energy requirement was purchased from EGAT, with the remainder purchased from DEA
and generated from mini-hydro and diesel plants.
2.2        With the growth in Thailand over the last decade, PEA has expanded and changed as an
institution. In 1980, PEA had less than one-third of its current consumers and sold less than one-third
of the gigawatt-hours. It was about half its current size in terms of employees and was managed under
a different organizational structure. Organizational changes made in 1987 and 1991 have prepared PEA
for the significant further expansion anticipated over the next 5-10 years. Further improvements and
specific changes required, in light of PEA's introduction of 115kV as a subtransmission voltage, were
recommended by consultants financed under the Distribution System Upgrading Project (Loan 3404-TH).
This would include inter alia a strengthening of PEA's regional offices and perhaps work towards an
eventual splitlng of PEA into separate regional companies.
2.3        PEA's Board of Directors is appointed by the Council of Ministers and comprises of a
Chairmaan (currently from the Department of Local Adminiion of the Ministry of Interior) and nine
other members who include both senior officials of the government agencies and departments concerned
with power distribution, and representatives from the private sector. The Governor of PEA is an ex-
officio member of the Board as well as the authority's chief executive officer.
2.4        Since a reorganization in October 1991, PEA's operations have been divided into seven
functional areas, each headed by a Deputy Governor. These areas include: Corporate Services,
Economics and Finance, Operations, Technique, Planning and System Development, Construction and
Maintenance, and Public Relations and Activities Promotion. In addition, there is a small staff of senior
officials who act as assistants to the Governor, and an Auditing Office and an Office of Inspectors, both
of which report directly to the Governor (see Chart 1). While PEA's organizational structure is generally
sound and appropriate to the operation's needs, the very rapid increase in the number of PEA consumers,
in the amount of electricity sold, and the expansion of PEA's network and the upgrading of its technology
have subjected the head office to strain. Increasingly it has been suggested that further decntralon
of PEA's operations would be appropriate. In this regard and in light of PEA's potential commercial-
ization and privatization, PEA's organizational structure will be re-evaluated under the project, and
possible division of PEA into separate regional companies will be assessed. PEA made steps towards
decentralizing its operations in Febnrary 1993 when it upgraded its regional offices from divisions to
departments and it inends further decentralization through delegation of detailed planning and
construction acvities from head office engineering functional units to the regions and area offices. While



- 12 -
responsibility for 115kV construction would remain with the Head Office (at least for the short term)
22/23kV construction would be decentralized.
2.5       In the mid-1980s, PEA adopted corporate strategic planning as a management tool to
enhance performance in the management and administration of its corporate activities in carrying out its
electrification mandate. This development, along with a simultaneous reorganization into its current
structure was important in preparing PEA to deal effectively with the transition from an essentially
construction-oriented organization to a service-oriented organization. The PEA corporate strategic plans
outline specific goals for the functional areas and reflect PEA's long-term goals and strategies in the
framework of government policies and priorities and sectoral objectives. Some notable results which have
been achieved under the strategic planning approach include: (a) improved billing and collection
procedures, which have reduced PEA's accounts receivable to 27 days of sales (para. 2.13); (b) an
improved training program, which now provides the skills and expertise needed for PEA's operations
(para. 2.9); (c) the implementation of materials handling and inventory control systems, which have
alleviated shortages which previously caused construction delays; and (d) the introduction of information
and electronic data processing systems which have produced tangible benefits through increased
productivity and improved budget and cost control.
2.6        Under Japan Grant Facility financing administered by the Bank in the context of the
Distribution System Upgrading Project, consultants provided training to PEA staff regarding 115kV
system design, operation and maintenance, assistance in developing Transmission and Distribution System
Management (TDSM) in 12 regional offices and in optimizing use of the distribution system management
facilities. They also evaluated PEA's management and organizational structure, and in that regard
recommended greater decentralization and delegation within PEA, and correspondimg reduction and
simplification of consultation/decision making procedures. They proposed establishing a specialized
operations and maintenance standards unit to look after the higher technologies required by the
introduction of l15kV substations, and a consequential rationalization of Head Office engineering
functions. These recommendations currently are being implemented by PEA. In addition, PEA is
undertaking consultancy studies that are reviewing its system reliability and recommending reliability
targets for different parts of its system.
B. Staffing and Training
2.7        PEA's management and staff are competent and well qualified. As of year-end FY93, about
70% of PEA's total staff of about 31,000 people had received some form of higher education. The
number of university graduates as a percentage of total staff increased between FY88 and FY93 from 8%
to 9%. Over the same period, due in large part to the rapid growth of PEA in terms of number of
customers and electricity sales, the number of consumers per employee consistently increased from 222
in FY88 to 259 in FY93; annual energy sales per employee increased from 0.503 GWh to 0.929 GW h.
With the projected substantial increase in PEA's sales over the near-term, and with PEA's attempts to
limit additions to staff, the ratio of sales to staff is expected to increase over the next five years. Table
II. 1 shows the growth of staff and the breakdown by academic qualifications during FY88-FY92.



- 13 -
Table IL: PEA's STAFFING EVOLUTION
Increase
FY88      FY89       FY90       FY91      FY92    1988-1992
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ ~~~% p.a.
University graduates                 2,049      2,312      2,419      2,540     2,765       7.8
Technical diploma                    4,314      4,732      5,227      5,801     6,283       9.9
Vocational cerdficate                10.667    11,099     11,750     12,440    12,942       5.0
Others                               7,987      7,973      7,984      7,860     7,824      (0.5)
TOTAL                           25.017     26.116     27.380     28.641    29.814       4.5
Customers per employee                 222        232        241        247      253        3.3
GWh sales per employee               0.503      0.567      0.650      0.727     0.818      1
Source: PEA.
2.8          PEA's only significan personnel problem relates to its difficulties in attracting and retaining
professional engineers. PEA presently has around 630 professionally qualified engineers with 390 in the
Head Office and 240 in the Regional and Area offices. Government salary scales, significantly lower
than private sector pay for engineers, have not been high enough to enable PEA to avoid a shortage of
engineers and particularly high turnover at the junior level. It is hoped that if PEA is classified as an
"efficient state enterprise" (paras. 1.26 and 2.22), the greater self management in matters of personnel
and salary should allow it to compete better with private enterprises for professional engineers.
2.9         Training within PEA is primarily the responsibility of the Training Center and the Electric
Vocational School. PEA has a single training center for technical and managerial training; it is located
in Central Thailand in Nakomchaisri District and is attended by approximately 2000 PEA staff members
per year. The center focuses on technical training, specifically in: (a) the operation and maintenance of
the power system; (b) the operation of substations; (c) the operation of voltage regulators; and (d) the
uses and maintenarce of equipment and tools. Training within the training center is provided completely
by in-house staff through regular courses and special seminars. In addition to the short-term courses held
at the training center, PEA offers a three-year program at its Electric Vocational School, where about
40 people per year are trained to work on live electricity lines. PEA also sends staff to outside training
courses, both in Thailand and abroad, with approximately 200 staff attending courses outside the company
each year. Much of PEA's training effort is in technical areas; insufficient attention is given to
supervisory ana management training and to staff development. These areas were highlighted by
consultants under the Distribution System Upgrading Project (Loan 3404-TH); PEA, agreeing with the
consultants' recommendations, is planning to upgrade its management training efforts.



- 14 -
2.10       With the rapid growth experienced by PEA during the past five years, the number of
connections provided by the utility has increased from 5.6 million in 1988 to 8.0 million in 1993, for an
average annual growth of 8%. Energy sales increased during the same period from 12,591 GWh to
28,819 GWh, over 18% per year. The annual investment program increased even more rapidly, from
B 3,816 million in 1988 to B 8,089 million in 1993, or over 20% per year. The relatively low level of
capital investment in the late 1980s has created a necessity for sharply increased capital expenditures in
the early 1990s (investment increased 80% in 1993 and will climb another 56% in 1994). Accordingly,
PEA will make the much needed upgrading and expansion of its distribution system, which should
prepare it for the expected continued high growth rates of the near to medium term.
2.11       PEA operates its facilities satisfactorily. It conducts regular maintenance within stipulated
intervas, and the standards observed for major maintenance work are satisfactory. Power losses for the
institution as a whole amount to about 7% of electricity purchased, which are low when compared to
those recorded for other countries in the region. Losses by region differ with loss levels associated with
the predominance of 115kV supplies near Bangkok approaching 3%, while losses in the north and
northeast being as high as 14% in some areas. The project is intended to reduce the high level of losses
within the targeted north and northeastern provinces by providing additional points of 115kV supply to
the existing 22kV systems, thereby also increasing distribution system capacity to handle increases in
demand in the project area.
2.12       PEA has a good record in project cost control, implementation and management. It has
been borrowing from the Bank since 1978 and is familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Processing of tenders and award of contracts are undertaken equitably and expeditiously. About 40 PEA
staff attended a Bank sponsored training course in Project Management held in February 1994.
D. F     d i
2.13       PEA's accounting system conforms to modern power utility practices. The staff of about
160 persons is well qualified and competent. Accounts are prepared in the 12 regional centers and
consolidated in Bangkok.  Accounting applications such as general ledgers, payroll, inventory
transactions, accounts payable, and accounts receivable have been computerized. PEA prepares annmal
budgets for its capital and operating expenditures, and prepares periodic reports to compare actual results
against budgeted amounts. The budget process has been operating satisfactorily.
2.14       PEA's billing and collection system is adequate. Accounts receivable declined from 38 days
of sales in FY88 to 27 days of sales in FY93. This far exceeds the government requirement that all state
enterprises collect receivables within 60 days. PEA accomplishes such an impressive receivables
collection rate by allowing residential customers only 7 days to pay their biUl, after which the power
supply is interrupted; industrial and commercial customers are given 15 days to pay, after which interest
is charged at the rate of 15% p.a. for the next 7 days, and electricity cut off thereafter.



- 15 -
Audt
2.15       PEA has an internal Auditing Office which reports directly to the Governor. It has a staff
of about 140 auditors and accountants who review the accounts of each regional office and of the head
office each month, focusing largely on asset management, accounting for materials and cash. It audits
procurement, checking to be sure that procurement is in line with contracts and ensuring that it follows
PEA guidelines. It also works with the provincial offices, reviewing their finance and accounting systems
and checking their invenitories.
2.16       PEA has an Office of Inspectors which also reports to the Governor. It includes 17 higher
level staff (mostly engineers) who inspect PEA facilities, operations and project implementation to ensure
that relevant procedures and specifications are being followed. The office (a) ensures that the PEA
corporate plan is being properly implemented; (b) provides technical advice to the divisions regarding
construction, maintenance, and operatdons; and (c) checks that PEA operations and facilities are according
to PEA's engineering and safety standards (following PEA's construction standard manual and its
engineering department's safety handbook).
2.17       PEA's external audit is performed by the Office of the Auditor General, the government
organization responsible for auditing all state enterprises. As provided for under previous Bank loans,
It was agrfed that PEA will submit to the Bank audited annual financial statements within six months of
the close of each fiscal ygear.
2.18       PEA has recently frWlemented a Management Information System (MIS). It has fully
computerized its customer service system (mcluding billing, collections, and customer-related work
orders), its finance and accounting system, its fixed assets and inventory management systems and its
personnel management system. It is currently developing its transmission and distribution system
management (TDSM) (para. 2.6) and its engineering design and analysis systems. In this regard it was
assisted with consulting services provided under the Bank-financed Distribution System Upgrading Project
(Loan 3404-TH). The TDSM includes automated mapping, facilities operations and maintenance
(including a transformer load management system) and a distribution management system (including loadl
fault/reliability analysis, considering load forecast, and facilitating the planning and design of substations).
It also is upgrading its project management system and is currently evaluating the application of the
project management software for the management of all new construction works. In this context the Bank
appraisal mission endorsed the use of such facilities on the project, both to improve project management
and for monitoring and reporting to PEA management and the Bank. PEA expects to have a project
management system in operation by the time construcdon would begin on the project in 1995.
2.19       PEA's computer systems, established for their individual applications, have not yet been
integrated. Work is currenly underway on an electronic data processing master plan, and PEA has
received government approval for an eight-month, Baht 5 million study towards the integration of its
various systems. Consultants under the first phase study would draft terms of reference for a 3-5 year
implementation program for a fully integrated MIS and would outline additional hardware facilities which
PEA would need to support the system.



- 16-
2.20       PEA carries adequate insurance protection against fire for buildings and their contents. No
third party liability insurance is carried. This is the general practice in most public enterprises in
Thailand and given the cha-acteristics of the risk for PEA it is acceptable. Insurance policies are
reviewed and updated once a year. It was agreed that PEA would continue to make grovisions
satisfactory to the Bank to provide insurance against such risks and in amounts consistent with appropriate
practice.
Tams
2.21       PEA remits a portion of its net income to the Government as determined by the Ministry
of Finance on a periodic basis. Although between FY87 and FY92, it remitted taxes at a level of 15%
of net income, this level was below that of commercial enterprises in Thailand. In order to achieve
"efficient state enterprise" status (para. 2.22), which would give PEA greater independence from
government regulation, PEA would be required to pay taxes at the commercial level of 30%.
Accordingly, PEA began to pay tax at 30% rate in FY93 to prepare for "efficient state enterprise" status
which it hopes to achieve in FY95 (para. 2.22).
E. Caraazoffda_o
2.22       PEA has applied to the Ministry of Finance for "efficient state enterprise" status, which it
hopes to receive in FY95. Efficient state enterprise status would entitle PEA to a partial deregulation,
including specifically deregulation of salary scales. which should enable it to attract and keep more
engineers. Its investment and financing plans would continue to require government approval. PEA has
drafted terms of reference for a financial advisor which would review the PEA operation and assess
whether it meets the MOF efficient state enterprise criteria, which include return on assets, productivity,
and labor component measurements, private participation in the enterprise's operations and tax paid at
30% of net profits. The conditions were spelled out by MOF in August 1991 and PEA (together with
other energy sector institutions - Including PTT, EGAT and MEA) - would be among the first in the
country to qualify for this new deregulation category. The main criteria which PEA had not yet met is
the 30% tax rate requirement. Although PEA in the past has remitted to Government only 15% of its
profits, this rate was increased in FY93 to 30% in order to meet the MOF requirent (para. 2.21).
2.23       Current government plans for privatization in the energy sector would corporatize PEA by
FY96. Towards this end, consulting services regarding corporatization and possible regionalization and
privatization of PEA's operations have been included under the project, terms of reference for which are
given in Annex 5. PEA has submitted the terms of reference for the consultancy services to the National
Energy Policy Office (NEPO) and the consultant is expected to be selected in FY95. Included under the
study would be an examination of tariffs - a review of the retail tariff schedule, which is the same
throughout the country, and also a review of the wholesale tariff, with its subsidy from MEA to PEA
(para. 4.19) and its uniform rate to all of the PEA regions. The study would analyze costs of generating
and distributing power to the different regions and would reconmmend whether the uniform tariff (at both
the wholesale and retail levels) should be changed.



- 17 -
El. THE PROJECT
A. Project Bakground
3.1        The project will incorporate the second stage of PEA's Power System  Expansion
Reinforcement Plan (PSERP), with the last significant stage of PEA's Rural Electrification Plan (REP).
Both activities will complement a number of other measures PEA is undertaking to meet load growth,
and improve its overall efficiency under the Five Year (1993-1997) Baht 48 billion (US$1,940 million)
plan reflecting PEA's change in emphasis from expanding rural electrification (RE) to providing services
to a rapidly growing industrial and commercial base. Key components of the overall plan include, inter
alia (with costs given in US$ equivalent terms): (i) the complete PSERP (US$1,230 million); (ii) the
Power System Efficiency Improvement Plan (US$120 million); the Rural Electrification Plan (US$115
million); Power Supply for New Economic Plan in Industrial Areas (US$240 million); Strengthening
Operations and Service Capability (US$200 million); and the Research and Development plan (US$35
million). Other elements of the PSERP include system reinforcement under the third stage in the I shaped
area in the south (US$120 million), the fourth stage involving further reinforcement of the central U
shaped area (US$120 million), submarine cable extensions to offshore islands (US$48 million), and a final
fifth stage expansion throughout all regions to meet load growth in the latter period of the five year
period (US$680 million). A notable feature of PEA's plan is that in building 65 new 115kV substations,
(in comparison to 16 being built by EGAT in the same period) there will be a shift in responsibility from
EGAT to PEA for the future development of the 115kV sub-transmission system.
B. Project Objecives and Description
3.2        The main objectives of the project are: (a) to expand the provincial 115kV subtransmission
and thereby reinforce the 22kV distribution system to meet the growth in power and demand in the
provincial areas at optimum levels of losses and reliability; (b) to complete PEA's rural electrification
program by extending existing 22kV feeder networks to 1,000 unelectrified and 10,000 partially
electrified villages; (c) to assist PEA in studying and planning its corporatization and possible
regionalization and privatization; and (d) to ensure through the monitoring of appropriate financial
covenants that PEA's financial strength remains adequate to support its growth.
3.3        The main components of the project are:
(a)  construction of 19 new 115/22kV transformer and switching substations with a total capacity
of about 800 MVA in the North and North Eastern regions of Thailand, together with the
construction of 19 associated 115kV transmission line circuits totalling a length of about 930
kIn;
(b)  construction of about 5,500 cct-km of 22/33kV lines, 8000 kmn low voltage lines, 84 MVA
distribution transformers, 120,000 consumer connections throughout Thailand; and
(c)  consulting assistance for:  (i) project engineering and design; (ii) extend1ng PEA's
capabilities in computerized distribution planning and design; and (iii) formulating a plan
for the corporatization and possible privatzation of PEA's operations.
ConsDruction of Substations and Trsin Lines
3.4        An in-depth feasibility study undertaken by PEA consultants determined that progressive
extension of 115kV lines and construction of new 115/22kV substations woule be the least-cost



- 18 -
distribution option for North and North Eastern regions and throughout the rest of the country in the
future. The consultants also proposed, for the period 1993-97, limiting further distribution from existing
substations in the area by concentrating on constructing new substations and their associated 115kV
transmission lines to reinforce the extensive 22kV networks. The substations under the project would
be substantially standardized in design, and would normally commence service with one incoming 115kV
line, one 25 MVA (rural areas) or 50 MVA (urban areas) transformer, outdoor llSkV switching
arrangement and indoor 22kV switchgear with five radial feeder outlets. For consumers requiring a high
degree of reliability, measures taken would include looping 115kV lines, duplicating substation
transformers and/or providing load transfer facilities at 22kV. The 115kV lines under the project would
utilize concrete poles, constructed along the roads thereby minimizing right-of-way requirements. Details
of the scope of the project are given in Annex 7.1.
Village EBtrfiocon Pfoect (Y' Stage IV
3.5        The VEP is designed to complete electrification in the remote rural areas to meet the Royal
Thai Government (RTG)'s objectives for poverty alleviation by providing electricity services to 98% of
the 62,000 villages in Thailand by 1996. A summary of PEA's overall RE program, including VEP, and
other RTG targeted RE projects, is given below. The VEP program, begun in 1983, concentrates on RE
expansion outside the major cities. VEP Stage IV to be financed under the loan will be carried out
together with another RTG sponsored project for settlement of the poor in deteriorated forest areas in the
North East. It focusses primarily on increasing the numbtr of connections in 10,00 existing villages,
while also extending the 22/33kV distribution networks to a 1000 new villages throughout Thailand.
Villages included in the VEP program have been selected from the poorest remaining unelectrified areas
based on the economic benefits due to increased productive uses of electricity, with the project showing
an overall 7% economic rate of return. Details of the scope of the material requirements are given in
Annex 7.2.
SUMMARY OF PEA'S RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROGRAM
VEP        End           No.       Investment     No. of          %          Million
Stage      Year        Projects    US$ Million    Villages    Electrified    Consumers
1960                                     729            2
1976           3            27         9,212           20
I          1981           6           212         12,659          50           2.7
II        1986            8           423         18,347          75           4.5
II[        1991          10           390         18,387          95           7.0
IV         1996           3           115          2,384          98           7.2
C_nsuldu  Servic
3.6        Consultancy services will be secured (following Bank guidelines for the use of consultants)
for assisting PEA in strengthening its institutional capability by preparing an implementation program as
directed by RTG, for the private participation in commercialization of PEA. The terms of reference
(TOR) will cover recommendations regarding and implementation of tdF  following: (i) possible
elimination of the uniform tariff in each region; (ii) commercialization of PEA operations;
(iii) appropriate revision of the PEA Act; and (iv) regionalization of PEA. The consutant will also make
recommendations for optinizing the development of 115kV systems taking into account the EGATs and
PEA's respective 115kV expansion plans. TOR for lhe consultants are given in Annex 5.



- 19-
3.7          Conswltant services will also be provided to assist PEA to finalize designs and to establish
adequate project tamagement procedures to facilitate implementation of construction. For the substations
component consultants will be financed by the KfW loan and will be selected in accordance with KfW's
recruitment procedures. For the transmission component consultants will be financed under the loan,
unless grant assistance can be obtained for this purpose. PEA will however proceed with the recruitment
of consultants based on the use of Bank guidelines to ensure they are in place as quickly as possible.
TOR for the consultants are given in Annex 6. It was aureed that these consultancv services, described
in Annexes 5 and 6. will be carried out under terms of reference agreed with the Bank. that the results
of the studies will be discussed with the Bank.
C. Cost
3.8          The total financing required by PEA for the project (including capitalized interest during
construction) is estimated at about US$375 million, with a foreign exchange co'nponent of about US$97
million. Details of the cost estimate are presented in Annex 8. Costs are based on March 1994 price
levels. Physical contingencies have been assumed at about 10% of the base cost. Price contigencies
are estimated on the basis of escalation factors of 5.0% for the local cost components and 2.8% for the
foreign cost components following Bank guidelines. Table 11. summurizes the cost estimates for the
project.
Taibe III.1. SUMMARY OF COSTS L/
-  Ba-   Million D-                       US$ Million      -
Local   Foreign   Tota          Local      Foreign      Tota
Subsaions                          674      836    1,509         26.94        33.42       60.36
Consultwq & Adnmin                   3       28       31           .13         1.10         1.23
Duties & Taxes                     220        -      220          8.80            -        8.80
Ease Cost                           97      863    1.760         35.87        34.52       70.39
Transmission                      2,193     580    2,774         87.73        23.21       110.94
Consultay & Admin                   46        9       55           1.83        0.35        2.18
Duties & Taxes                     247        -      247          9.87            -        9.87
Ban cost C2.485                             S88    3.074         22,43        2.56       122.99
Vila  Electrification            1,410     453    1,863         56.40        18.12       74.52
Engineering & Admin                 52         -      52          2.08            -        2.08
Duties & Taxes                      48        -       48           1.92           -         1.92
cost CX1.510                               453    1.963         6140         18.12        78.52
Institutionad                        8       16       24          0.30          .65          .95
Contilgencies
Pysical                            444      162      607          17.78        6.49       24.27
Price                             1,145     182    1,327         45.40         7.72       53.12
Tod Proi                          6.489    2.266    8.755       -2518        91.06       350.24
Ierest During Construcion          466      153      619          18.63        6.13       24.76
Fnsxine  Reauired                 6.956    2.420    9.37$       277.81        97.19       375.00
a Marc 1994 price lvels.
D2 Exchange PFae US$1 -  25.0.



- 20 -
D. lta
3.9        PEA will be fully responsible for the implementation of the project. For the transmission
and substations component a project team headed by a project manager will be formed for coordinating
and managing the project. The team will draw: (a) engineering and design support from PEA's
Engineering/Planning, Civil/Architecture, and Procurement departnents; (b) accounting assistance from
PEA's Economic/Budget and Accounting/Finance departments; and (c) construction supervision support
from PEA's Construction, Service and Transport departments, and from the regional offices. The
construction of the 115kV transmission lines, and supply and installation of 115kV substations will be
undertaken through single-responsibility turnkey contracts. Civil designs for the substations will be
prepared by PEA's Civil/Architecture department and constructed through local contractors. All
transmission lines under the project will be pole-mounted, and will be largely routed along roads where
PEA has right-of-way, thus avoiding potential right-of-way problems. PEA has already taken advanced
action in securing land for substations. The substation plots are relatively small (as compared to those
needed for large transmission substations) and there will be adequate flexib3lity in their location to suit
local conditions. There has been no problems in resolving compensation matters for substation plots.
The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 7.1; disbursements are expected to start in March
1995 with an overall implementation period of about four years.
3.10       For the VEP, PEA has established a project team responsible for the overall execution and
implementation of the work. This comprises a project manager and several project engineers with
experience in the implementation of the earlier phases of construction. Detailed surveys, route planning,
equipment selection, and cost estimating are being undertaken by the regional offices using criteria
established by the Planning Department. Materials and equipment financed under the loan will be
procured under ICB whilst those financed from local sources will be purchased from local manufacturers
under PEA's standard procurement rules. About 15% of the concrete poles will be manufactured in
PEA's own factories. Construction work forces will be recruited locally with each work group headed
by a regular PEA employee. Engineers from PEA's regional and head offices will routinely inspect the
work. The project implementation is also shown in Annex 7.2; disbursements are expected to start in
December 1994 and the overall implementation period will be about five years.
M_iyvard Reporf
3.11       Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in terms of physical
execution and financial reports have been agreed with PEA, which will firnish quarterly progress reports.
Parts 1 (Bank's Perspective) and 3 (Statistical Information) of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) will be drafted by the Bank not later than six months after completion of the project. PEA will
review Parts 1 and 3 and prepare Part 2 (Borrowers' Perspective) of the PCR within three months
thereafter.
3.12       Supervision of this project will be undertaken along with the Bank's ongoing projects in
Thailand in accordance with the supervision plan in Annex 10. The key issues that would be focused
upon are: (a) periodic reviews of PEA's investment plan in keeping with changes in the economic
scenario; (b) m'-nitoring of compliance with financial covenants to assure the financial health of PEA
while undertaking a large investment program; and (c) adequate technical supervision for the project and
the consulting studies. The Bank missions would also assist PEA in institutional development activities
and provide advice on environmental issues whenever needed. Supervision of the project would require
expertise in power engineering, management, economics and financial analysis, which would be available
within the Bank. Two missions annually for a period of four years are foreseen for adequate supervision



-21 -
of this project. The estimated staff inputs for supervision over the duration of the project are 20 staff-
weeks.
E.    EHlanmmt
3.13       The project is not expected to have any adverse impact on the environment and ias been
classified with B category. Using 115kV transmission lines in place of a host of lower voltage lines
would reduce congestion in the line routes. Further, since the 115kV lines would be pole mounted, the
right-of-way requirements would be lower; and since these lines would be routed along roads,
encroachment on human habitats and ecologically valuable land would be much less compared with
115kV cross-country tower lines. Routes of lines subject to significant environmental impacts, if any,
would be reviewed by Bank missions and the lines would be re-routed and/or compensation paid as
appropriate. The typical 115/22kV substation, developed under the project (with indoor intermediate
voltage switchgear) would have a smaller plot requirement, to that normally attributed to a main
transmission substation. The siting of the substations would be fairly flexible and emphasis would be
placed on aesthetic aspects in their siting and design. Line and substation designs would follow
internationally accepted safety practices which have a proven record in the Thai environment. There will
be no resettlement of people under the project.
F. Fhmcing Pi=
3.14       Table 111.2 below summarizes the expected financing sources for the project. Bank
financing would account for about 14% of the project cost and about 53% of iL foreign component
(including interest dunng construction). The Bank loan of US$50 million would be at the standard
variable interest rate for a 17-year term including a 5-year grace period. PEA would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks for its loan, which would be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand.
In addition, financing would include a loan fron KfW for 8 % of the project cost; this loan would be for
30 years, with a 10 year grace period and a 2% interest rate. It would also include U.K. ODA financing
for 11% of the project cost; this loan would be for 15 years with a 4 year grace period and a 1.7%
interest rate. Other borrowings would include local commercial bank loans and bonds for 5-7 year
duration, with interest rates of about 10%.
Table I.2: FINANCING PLAN
Local      Foreign     Total
(US$ MiSlion)               (%)
World Bank                                0.0       50.0        50.0           13%
KfW                                       0.0       29.4        29.4            8%
U.K. (ODA)                                0.0       10.9        10.9            3%
Other Borrowings                        148.3        6.9       155.2           41%
Equity                                   30.0       30.0        30.0            8%
Internal Cash Generation                 99.5        0.0        99.5           27%
Total                                277.8       97.2       375.0          100%



- 22-
G.
3.15       All contracts financed by the Bank for Works and Goods would be awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of May 1992.
3.16       In the evaluation of bids for goods following ICB procedures, a domestic price margin of
preference equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufactures. Prior Bank review of bid documents
and approval of contract awards would be mandatory for all contracts expected to cost the equivalent of
US$2.0 million or more. This would cover about 95% of total contract value. Consulting services
financed by the Bank would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of
consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, of August 1981.
Their appointment would be subject to Bank review. All other project components will be financed in
parallel from other sources, or financed by the borrower without Bank participation following procedures
that will ensure economy, timeliness and compatibility of those components.
3.17       Table 111.3 sumarizes the procurement arrangements for the project.
Table 111.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Project Component                  Procurement Method
.._________________ -C                         Oh -          N - -  . -.'"--" "-    . . - -'-"'--!'    ""  Total Cost
1. Works
1.1 Substations                                                  87           87
(0)          (0)
1.2 Transmission Lines               137                          9          146
(17)                        (0)         (17)
1.3 Distribution                           -                     27           27
-  -              ~~~     ~    ~~(0)  (0)
2. Goods                               23        -                18           41
2.1 Conductors                       (21)       -                (0)         (21)
2.2 Distribution                      12        -                35           47
Equipment                         (11)       -                (0)         (11)
3. Consulting Services                   -       1                 1            2
-       (1)              (0)           (1)
TOTAL                             172         1              177          350
l ___________________________          (49)      (1)               (0)         (50)
L    Refers to the engagement of consulting services.
N.B.F. Not Bank Financed.
Note: Figures within brackets indicate financing from the Bank loan.



- 23 -
3.18       The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment
and materials including installation; (b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
items and works procured through ICB; (c) 70% of local expenditures for materials and equipment
procured locally; and (d) 100% of total expenditures for consulting services. For all equipment and
material contracts, disbursements would be made against full documentation. As the number of contracts
is small and manageable, Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures would not be followed nor would
a Special Account be opened. However, PEA will ensure that each withdrawal application would not be
less than US$50,000 equivalent. Provision is also made for retroactive financing up to US$5,000,000.
3.19       Annex 9 gives the disbursement schedule for the Bank loan and the standard profile of
disbursemenws for power projects in Asia. Considering the advanced stage of preparation by PEA with
consultants already in place, and PEA's rather slow performance on the last Bank projects (Loans 2312-
TH and 3404-TH) the loan is expected to be disbursed faster than indicated by the standard profile. The
project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998 and the closing date for the loan would be March
31, 1999.



- 24 -
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past      fo e
4.1       PEA's performance for the period FY89-FY93 is summarized in Table IV. 1. Detailed
statements are given in Annex 11.
Table IV.1: SUMMARY OF PEA'S FINANCLAL OPERATING STATISTICS, FY89-FY93
(Baht million)
. Fs  Year Ending
Sepmber 30                1989      1990     19915    1992
Energy Sales (GWh)                    14,817   17,805   20,812   24,379   28,819
Average Revenue (B/kWh)                 1.62     1.62      1.64     1.60     1.62
Operating Revenues                    24,789   29,865   35,304   40,201   48,582
Operating Expenses la                 22,467   27,009   31,634   35,472   42,294
Operating Income                       2,322    2,856    3,670    4,729    6,228
Net Income                             1,411    2,379    3,804    5,037    6,281
Rate Base                             24,137   27,235   29,956   34,271   37,864
Long-Term Debt (Net)                  21,269   21,614   20,485   21,729   23,225
PrmaryRatios:
Rate of return (%) tb                   9.6     10.5     12.3     13.8    16.6
Debt service coverage (times)           2.1      2.5      3.1      2.6      3.9
Operating ratio (%) la                  91       90        90       88       87
Current ratio (times)                   1.5      1.6      1.7      2.1      2.5
Debt as % of total capitalization       58       50        43       37       32
Self-financing ratio (%)                48       75        65       73       45
(3-year average)                          -L        I
la  Including taxes, but excluding interest charged to operations and foreign exchange losses.
& On average net revalued fixed assets in operation for power; employee bonuses and remittances to
the government are included in the year in which they are paid.
4.2        During the period FY89-FY93, PEA's energy sales increased from 14,817 GWh to 28,819
GWh - doubling during the five years and increasing at an average annual growth rate of about 18%.
This very high growth rate was due to the country's overall economic expansion in the period, to PEA's
extensive rural electrification program, and to industrial development, especially in the provinces



- 25 -
immediately adjacent to Bangkok. It reflects the Government's policy of encouraging economic growth
outside of Bangkok. Recognizing the infrastructural limitations of Bangkok to support industrial growth
indefinitely, the Government established a policy to balance economic growth in the urban and non-urban
areas. As part of this policy, the Government designated tax benefits for industrial and commercial
developments outside Bangkok, with the benefits related directly to the distance from Bangkok as well
as to the amount of product exported. The incentives have helped to create a land area around Bangkok,
in the PEA service territory, which offers highly desirable opportunities for industrial development, and
it is encouraging development in provincial areas, including those which would be served under the
project.
4.3        The strong sales performance has given PEA a very healthy financial status and caused its
financial indicators to rise throughout the period, in spite of a lack of tariff increases. Indeed, tariffs had
been decreased in the FY85-FY87 period, when falling oil prices encouraged the rate reduction even
though PEA had a net loss in each of those years. The sizeable sales volume increase of the late 1980's
enabled PEA to earn a positive net income in FY88, which then more than doubled in FY89 and
continued to increase by about 50% per annum through FY92. Largely because of the rapid volume
growth, but also because PEA's capital investment program has been low in relation to its sales growth,
the enterprise's financial indicators have been more than sound. The rate of return (ROR) on net
revalued assets in operation was nearly 13% in FY89-FY93. The self-financing ratio was 48% in FY89
and averaged 71% throughout the FY90-FY92 period and was 45% in FY93.
4.4        PEA's Operating Ratio improved throughout the 1980's. With the increase in oil prices and
with political resistance to raising power tariffs, the ratio of PEA expenses to revenues rose to 96% in
the FY84-FY86 period, with 76% of total operating expenses being the amount paid to EGAT for power.
With the significantly expanded sales volume which began in FY87 (when PEA's sales increased 18%)
and with the decreased fuel prices, which allowed EGAT's wholesale rate to be reduced in FY87 and held
constant after that, the operating ratio started to decline. By FY89, it was 91%, and by FY93 it had
fallen to 87%.
4.5        PEA's profitability was increased in the FY89-FY93 period by the enterprise's relatively
low level of financing charges. PEA not only relied on internally-generated funds for more than 50%
of its funding needs, but it also relied substantially on the OECF and KfW (Germany) for a significant
portion of its debt, thus keeping its cost of borrowing relatively low.
4.6        PEA is obligated to pay to the Ministry of Finance a portion of its net income at a level
which in the past has been determined at each year's end by the Ministry acco-ding to the needs of the
National Treasury. The remittance level was 15% throughout the FY88-FY91 period. It is expected to
be higher than that in the fuiture, largely because PEA seeks to conform to the Government's "efficient
state enterprise" status, which specifies that an institution shall pay tax at the commercial rate of 30%.
4.7        PEA's capital structure has been satisfactory in the FY89-FY93 period, following a rise in
the debt to total capitalization ratio in FY88 due to appreciation of the yen against the baht. The debt
to total capitalization ratio fell dramatically through the five year period. The ratio was 68% in FY89,
exceeding the 60% covenant effective from previous Bank loans with PEA, if deferred foreign exchange
losses are subtracted from PEA's equity. The ratio then fell dramatically, however, declining by at least
6 or 7% percentage points each year, to be 32% in FY93. The reduction was caused both by the increase
in equity from retained earnigs and the stability of debt levels, which remained static through the FY89-
FY93 period. Debt service coverage increased from 2.1 times in FY89 to 3.9 times in FY93. The fact



- 26 -
that PEA's borrowings were essentially at the level of its debt principal repayments was possible because
of the relatively small amount of capital investment throughout the 1980's. Capital investment did start
to rise in FY89, increasing from Baht 5.2 billion in that year to Baht 8.1 billion FY93.
4.8        The amount of PEA's debt was expanded substantially by the appreciation of the Japanese
yen and the German mark, the currencies in which a significant portion of PEA's debt is denominated.
Since PEA has relied on OECF and KfW (Germany) for a significant portion of its debt financing, it has
received Japanese yen and Deutsche Mark denominated loans. Although PEA's current strong financial
position keeps its foreign exchange loss from being a problem, PEA's FY92 total debt obligations were
expanded by 31 % due to currency fluctuation-caused losses which had accumulated over the terms of the
loans. Further changes in the value of foreign currencies vis a vis the Baht could have significant effects
on PEA's financial structure. For example, if the foreign currencies in which PEA's debt is denominated
appreciate against the Baht by an average of 10% per year, PEA's long-term debt to total capitalization
ratio would be about 53% by FY2001 rather than the 35% as forecast without changes in the values of
the currencies. Accordingly the Bank hes advised PEA to participate in Bank-provided treasury
management training; arrangements regarding this training are currenly underway. In addition, PEA
plans increasingly to utilize local capital markets to finance its investment. Whereas local borrowings
amount to only about 13% of PEA's total debt in FY93, it is anticipated that by FY2001, about 24% of
PEA's debt will be locally financed.
4.9        PEA, along with other state enterprises in Thailand, accounts for its foreign exchange losses
with an approach which spreads the losses over the term of the d&bt, neither taking all of the losses up-
front, nor pushing them back to the time of principal repayment. Whereas before 1986, state enterprises
in Thailand generally had recognized losses only at the time of debt repayment, they now revalue the
loans as of September 30 of each year and write the resulting loss off over the remaining term of the
loan, taking into income an equal portion of the loss for each year remaining in the term. This is in
agreement with a 1986 Ministry of Finance accounting directive. While the policy is not in compliance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which provide that except in the case -of
devaluation, the full foreign exchange loss should be written off each year as it occurs, the appraisal
mission determined that it was acceptable in the Thai conext. Because the mark and the yen have tended
to both appreciate and depreciate against the dollar (the currency to which the Baht is essentially tied),
the Thai Government policy has not resulted in an unmanageable liability which would substantially
threaten future income. (This accounting policy would not be appropriate, for example, in an
environment in which the local currency always depreciated against the foreign currencies). Moreover,
in the Thai context and particularly for PEA with its long term OECF and KfW loans, the approach
precludes the wide swings in earnings which would result if foreign exchange losses were written off year
by year as they occurred. Over the past five years, for example, use of the GAAP approach would have
caused PEA's earnings to be more volatile than they were under the Thai Government approach. If the
full amount of foreign exchange fluctation had been taken into income each year as it occurred PEA
would have shown foreign exchange losses in some years and gains in others. The Thai Govermnent
approach ameliorated these fluctuations and smoothed out their effect on earnings. A companson of
foreign exchange losses as calculated using the two methods is shown below.



- 27 -
(Baht Millions)
1988         1989         1990          1991         1992
MOF Directive          -531          -428         -415         -481      __-547
GAAP Approach          -724         +592           -80         +215         -866
Even with the substantial increase in PEA's debt caused by the inclusion of the foreign exchange
adjustment component, the debt to total capitalization ratio was only 34% in FY92 (para. 4.7), well under
the 60% ratio agreed with the Bank under previous loans.
4.10       PEA's financial position as of FY94 is healthy, with budgeted amounts showing a self-
financing ratio of 39%, an ROR of 6.2%, and a debt service coverage of 4.1 times. The numbers reflect
a continuation of PEA's financial strength of the late 1980s and early 1990" and are caused in large part
by the substantial sales increases of the last few years, including a budgeted sales increase of 7.4% in
FY94. The lower self-financing ratio in FY94 reflects the increase in capital investment of about 35%
over FY93 levels; it still remains more than adequate.
B. Ibandal Oulook
4.11       PEA's healthy financial perfonmance is projected to continue throughout the 1990s. The
challenge for PEA in the near term will be to finance the expansion in its capital investment, which is
expected to increase 35% in FY94 and to go up another 17% in FY95 and 5% in FY96. These higher
investments are necessary to rehabilitate and upgrade the existing PEA system, as well as to expand the
system to include currently unelectrified and partially electrified villages. Under the Distribution System
Upgrading Project (Loan 3404-TH), the Bank helped finance PEA's upgrading its system near Bangkok
to include 115kV facilities. The continuation of this upgrading and expansion throughout the country
accounts for a substantial portion of PEA's capital investment program over the next ten years. PEA's
current financial strength should allow it to absorb and fimance this growth. So long as the EGAT tariff
to PEA (reflecting the price of fuel) remains at its current level, no PEA tariff increases would be
required. As the EGAT tariff to PEA increases, either because of EGAT cost (predominanly fuel cost)
increases or because the subsidy included in the wholesale price to PEA is reduced, the PEA retail tariff
would need to be raised commensurately (para. 4.13). As noted in para. 2.23, however, the issue of
cross-subsidies would be examined further by the consultants undertaking the corporatization study in the
context of regionalization of PEA's operations.
4.12       Key indicators of PEA's financial performance for the period FY93-FY2001 are presented in
Table IV.2, and detailed projections are shown in Annex 12.



- 28 -
Table IV.2: SUMMARY OF PEA'S FINANCIAL OPERATING STATISnCS, PY93-FY2001
(Baht mOillion)
Fiscal year ending        1993     1994    1995     1996     197       1998     1999      2000      2001
September 30
Energy sales (GWh)              28,819   30,946  34,433    38,160   41,807    45,645    49,739    54,068    58,644
Average revenue (B/kWh)           1.62     1.68    1.68      1.68     1.68     1.68      1.69      1.70      1.70
Operating revenues              48,582   53,472   59,388    65,674   71,846    78,348    85,871    93,785   101,714
Operating expenses /a           42,294   50,411   55,520    61,626   67,387    73,516    80,207    87,363    95,045
Operating income                 6,228    3,061    3,868    4,048    4,459    4,832     5,664     6,422     6,669
Net income (loss)                6,281    3,445    4,385    3,840    3,878    4,099     4,474     5,092     5,297
Rate base                       37,864   49,311   63,798    80,074   95,752   111,554   129,041   147,118   165,159
Long-term debt (net)            23,225   24,755   32,860    37.857   46,934    50,486    57,819    68,552    73,709
Primary ratios:
Rate of return (%) /b            12.8     6.2      6.1       5.1     4.7       4.3       4.4       4.4       4.0
Debt service coverage (times)     3.9     4.1      3.0       3.9     3.7       3.8       1.9       1.9       3.2
Opeaing atio (%) la                87      94       93       94       94        94       93         93       93
Current ratio (times)             2.5      1.6     1.7       1.2     1.5       1.1       1.1       1.4       1.3
Long-term debt as % of            32       29       32       32       34        33       34         35       35
total capitaization
Self-financing atio (X)           45       39       33       44       32        50        34        34       52
(3-year average)
/a Including taxes, but excluding interest charged to operations and foreign exchange losses.
/b    On average net revalued fixed assets in operation for power.
4.13          It was agreed that PEA's tariffs would be set so as to aenerate funds from  internal sources
eauivalent to not less thn 25%  of the ana aeae of its cital exgendtue  incurred, or epctd to be
d.urred, for that fiscal vear. the grevious fiscal year. and the next following fiscal year. While the 25% ROR
figure is consistent with the reauirements for EGAT and MEA. as additional protection for PEA it was agreed
tht PEA must achieve a rate of return (ROR) on fixed assets of at les 4%. Arement was also reached
Government to undertake a periodic review and to adjust tariffs as necessarv to endure that PEA earns the 25%
SFR and a 4% ROR. According to current projections, PEA's tariff would not need to be increased in the
near-term in order to stay above the covenanted 25% self-financing ratio level and the 4% ROR, so long as
the EGAT tariff remains at its current level. Tariff increases by EGAT to PEA - whether because of fuel
price increases or increases in wages under a new deregulated status or because of a discontinuation or scaling
down of the subsidy to PEA provided within the tariff - would require commensurate increases in the PEA
retail tariff (para. 4.11). Any increases in PEA's costs apart from the EGAT tariff (such as an increase in
PEA's own wages once it achieves "efficient state enterprise" status) would also require appropriate changes
in the retail tariff.
4.14          The 25 % self-financing ratio covenant reflects the benchmark which the Government itself uses
when setting tariffs for the power sector. In outstanding loans, the Bank has specified that covenant with
EGAT and MEA, and ADB has agreed to the same covenant with those institutions as well. Together with
a debt/equity ratio ceiling of 60/40 (para. 4.15) and a minimum rate of return of 4%, the SFR covenant will
ensure financial soundness for PEA. It will have an appropriate capital structure; i- will have adequate liquidity
and it will do so with minimal tariff increases.



-29 -
4.15       Throughout the projected period, PEA's debt service coverage ratio will range between 1.9 and
4.1 times and its capital structure will remain satisfactory: the debt/total capital ratio is expected to average
about 33% and remain below 40%. These levels will give PEA flexibility and financial strength through the
1990s. It was agreed that PEA would maintain a debt/eauity ratio not exceeding 60/40 (calculated after the
revaluation of PEA's assets). The Govermnent will also undertake a periodic review and to take measures as
necessary to ensure that PEA co.nplies with the debt/euuitv ratio. PEA's rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets (revalued each year according to an index published by NESDB) is projected to be in the 4-6% range
through much of the FY93-FY2001 period; this ROR - in the context of PEA's sound cash position and
generally strong financial position - is acceptable.
4.16       The rate of return is expected to decline from the FY93 level of 13% largely because of the
increased depreciation charges and the expanded rate base resulting from the substantial increase in investment
beginning in FY92. Also, due to the sizeable increases in depreciation, and to substantial increases in interest
and commitment charges, PEA's net income is expected to drop after FY93, falling from Baht 6.3 billion in
FY93 to Baht 3.4 billion in FY94. It will then rise slowly, remaining fairly level through the 1990's.
C. Taiff Levds and Stucture
4.17       Appropriate tariffs which all retail customers - whether of MEA, PEA  or EGAT - pay are
determined according to the same schedule. This tariff structure, which is given in Annex 12, was revised as
of December 1, 1991. Before that it had remained essentially without change during the previous five years,
following a small reduction in 1987. A study on Marginal Cost of Electric Power in Thailand done in 1991
by consultants for the Government had indicated that the effective tariffs per kWh were generally close to the
marginal costs of supply, but that the structure of the tariff for large consumers had differed from the marginal
cost, the demand charge being substantially lower and the energy charge substantially higher than the
corresponding marginal costs. The tariff revision took recommendations of the study into account, and also
reflected agreements regarding tariffs made with the Bank in the Power Transmission Project with EGAT (Loan
2915-TH). The new tariff schedule is based on the three main principles behind the agreed action plan in that
loan, namely that:
(a)  cost differences between the main voltage levels of delivery should be reflected;
(b) cost differences arising from marked variations in consumers' usage patterns viz load factor,
power factor and intensity of peak time demand should be reflected; and
(c)  subsidies for consumers failing outside low income groups should be reduced.
Specifically, for large and medium-sized business customers, the demand charge was increased in the new tariff
and the energy charge was reduced to reflect the relative marginal capacity costs and energy costs. Tariff
differences between high, medium and low voltage were introduced to reflect network costs and energy losses.
For medium-sized businesses, optional time-of-day kWh tariffs and reduced KW charges for low consumption
and off-peak period usage were implemented. For larger customers, the TOD tariffs were implemented and
are mandatory. For residential customers, the number of tranches in the block tariff was reduced from 10
blocks to 8 for small residential customers and from 10 blocks to 4 for large residential customers. While small
users (up to 150 kWh) still buy electricity at subsidized rates, the larger users (over 150 kWh) pay at
unsubsidized levels. Adjusting the rates of large and medium size residential customers in line with the
economic cost of low voltage service, the new tariff schedule raises the rate for those customers by about 15%.



- 30 -
4.18       Effective December 1992, the Government put in place an automnatic adjustmnent clause, by means
of which the retail tariff is adjusted monthly as the costs change for fuel, taxes, foreign exchange and demand-
side management. Because of changes in these factors, the automatic adjustment clause resulted in a Baht 0.08
per kWh increase to PEA's average retail tariff in FY93, for an increase of 4.9% over the FY92 level. It
resulted in a similar increase in the wholesale tariff.
4.19       The tariff setting mechanism is such that once the overall tariff schedule has been agreed, self-
financing ratios are set for the individual utilities. Because PEA, with its extensive rural distribution system
and low density coverage, has costs which exceed those of MEA on a per kWh basis, subsidies to PEA are
built into the rates charged by EGAT to the two utilities (EGAT's tariff to PEA in FY92 was Baht 0.96 and
to MEA Baht 1.47, compared with its average tariff of Baht 1.26). In FY93 with increases caused by the
automatic tariff adjustment mechanism (para. 4.18), these rates increased by Baht 0.07 per kWh: PEA's rate
per kWh paid to EGAT increased to Baht 1.03 in FY93. The Government reviews the relative rates
periodically to ensure that they accomplish the required cross-funding among the utilities. It was agreed that
under the loan. PEA would review by April 30 of every year the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the required
self-financing ratio.
Di. Ebbdg ri
4.20       A financing plan for PEA over the project disbursement period (FY93-FY97) is presented in Table
X.3.
Table IV.3: PEA FINANCING PLAN, FY93-FY97
l                                      ~~~~     ~     ~~~      ~     ~~~~~Baht  US$%--  l
In m-llos-
Financial ReWrementsl
Project (Including IDC)                             9,075        363.0         10
Other Investments (Including IDC)                  86,475       3,459.0        95
Working Capital Requirements                      (4,965)        (198.6)        (5)
Total Requirements                                 90.585      3.623.4        100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                           56,119       2,244.8         62
Less: Debt Service                                  19,199        768.0         21
Net Internal Cash Generation                       36,920       1,476.8         41
IBRD Loan                                           1,250          50.0          1
Other Borrowings                                   35,256       1,410.2        39
Equity                                              1,835          73.4         2
Consumer Contributions and Customer Deposits        14,711        588.5         16
Other Items (Net)                                     613          24.5         1
Total Sources of Funds                             90.585       3.623.4        100



- 31 -
4.21       The project, including interest during construction, represents about 10% of PEA's capital
requirements during the FY93-FY97 period. The Bank loan of US$50 million is expected to meet about 14%
of the cost of the project but only about 1 % of PEA's total financing requirements for the period. During the
FY93-FY97 period, PEA expects to meet 41 % of its capital requirements from internally generated fiuds and
16% from consumer contributions and customer deposits. In addition to the Bank loan, it will need to borrow
funds totalling 39% of its total cash requirements. It should have no problem borrowing these funds from the
sources which traditionally have supplied it (para. 4.22); indeed it already has commitments for a large portion
of its borrowing needs over the period. Its debt/equity ratio and debt service coverage ratio suggest that it
should have no difficulty absorbing and servicing its anticipated debt (para. 4.15).
4.22       PEA has customarily relied largely on soft foreign loans from the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF) of Japan, tihe Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KMW) of Germany, the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (KFAED), the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund for International Development. It also has
several outstanding loans from the Bank includimg one on-going loan which is not yet fully disbursed. PEA
expects to continue depending on foreign borrowing from these sources to finance the foreign cost of its
projects. No difficulties have arisen in the past in PEA's obtaining sufficient financing for its projects; no
difficulties are expected for obtaining sufficient cofinancing for this project. Excluding CIDA loans which are
interest free, interest rates on foreign loans from sources other than the Bank range from 1.7% to 4% p.a. In
addition, PEA borrows domestically from commercial banks at current market rates. Specifically, PEA
anticipates borrowing from the following sources (in addition to the Bank) at the following terms:
(a)   OECF - a 25 year term, with 7 years of grace and a 3% interest rate;
(b)  KfW - a 30 year term, with 10 years of grace and a 2% interest rate;
(c)   UK ODA - a 15 year term, with 4 years of grace and a 1.7% interest rate; and
(d)   Domestic loans and bonds - a 5 year term and an interest rate of about 10%.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT JUSTlFICATION
A. Ewuomic Anasis
5.1        The continuing surge in electricity demand in the PEA service territory has made it imperative
for PEA to expand and upgrade its power distribution system to deliver power to new areas while enhancing
the reliability of the system to acceptable levels. Through the provision of reliable power supply, the project
would promote efficient industrial growth which is vital for the country's economic development. Further, its
implementation would assist the Government's objective of promoting industrial growth outside metropolitan
Bangkok. The project forms an important part of PEA's least-cost expansion program. Its implementation
would achieve the dual objective of reducing losses and improving reliability and it would set a precedent for
similar future projects in high density growth areas of the country.
S            onnent
5.2        A detailed economic analysis of the subtransmission component was undertaken by the feasibility
study consultants for the distribution of power in the entire area covered by the proposed subtransmission
component. The analysis compared the costs of the distribution system expansion by constructing new 115kV
lines and step-down 115/22kV substations as proposed under the project, versus the next best alternative of
expanding existing EGAT substations and adding 22kV feeders; the benefits - specifically the sale of
incremental energy - would be the same for both alternatives. The analysis considered the anticipated growth
n demand over the 1991-96 period and computed the cost streams of the two alternatives (over a project life
of 30 years) in terms of: (a) capital investments over 1991-96 excluding duties and taxes; (b) the operation and
maintenance costs at 1.5% of the capital costs; and (c) the cost of losses evaluated at: (i) 463 B/kW/month and
0.857 B/kWh at 22kV; and (ii) 402 BlkW/month and 0.82 B/kWh at 115kV. In evaluating the alternative
expansion plans on the basis of a 12% discount rate, the results of the analysis showed the savings accrued in
reinforcing the 22kV network by superposition of a 115kV substation were generally more than twice the cost
of extending the 22kV networks. Accordingly, the proposed subtransmission component is a least-cost
investment for PEA.
Vgg              II.  Projd Copnn
5.3        A comprehensive financial and economic evaluation of the VEP project was carried out by PEA
using methodology developed in consultation with the Bank on earlier RE projects. The financial evaluation
of the VEP project is based on a thirty year projection of demand growth, taking into account the distribution
investmnents under the project and the subsequent additional investment needed to reinforce the networks.
Expenses for operating and maintenance are taken at 0.5% and 1% of the capital costs respectively; and for
customer accounting and general administration at 15 Baht/customer/year. A composite depreciation rate of
3.5% p.a. was used (covering depreciation of the distribution system at 3% and vehicles and tools at 15%).
Revenues and other receipts from customer deposits are based on PEA's current tariff schedule (Annex 13).
On this basis assuming that the cost of power purchased from EGAT is fixed at the FY92 level of 0.963
Baht/kWh, the FIRR is -7%. The economic evaluation took into account: (i) social benefits (social parity,
commuity center development, security improvement, health and quality of life improvement, demographic
development and income distribution), and (ii) economic benefits (increase in productivity, extension of work
period, reduction in energy cost) to adjust the financial costs and benefits to reflect the true economic value
of the project. The analysis took into account the economic values of transfer payments, contingencies, and
externalities, and it used shadow piicing indices to adjust the respective financial values of the project. The



- 33 -
quantifiable benefits were derived for rural residential households, social facilities, commercial shops, rice
mills, water pumps potable water, and power tools. On the bases of the above, PEA's calculations indicate
an EIRR of a relatively low value +7% reflecting the lower socio-economic characteristics of the remaining
unelectrified consumers.
5.4        Overall Thailand's RE program has resulted in significant benefits to the population at large, and
has been a cornerstone of the government's poverty alleviation program. Between 1962 and 1988 poverty
incidence has reduced from 57% of the population to 21.8%. Real per capita incomes increased more than
threefold over this 26 year period, during which time Thailand was transformed from a predominantly agrarian
to industrial production base. There is concern however over the sharp regional differences in average income
and poverty incidence, an issue which the project addresses in completing the RE program. The poor are
overwhelmingly concentrated in rural districts where there are pockets of poverty with few opportunities for
employment. The provision of electricity to these locations will provide an important component of the basic
infrastructure needed to accelerate productivity growth and provide comparable employment opportunities to
all sectors of the rural population.
Noject Rate of Rtun
5.5        An assessment of the overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the consolidated project
is given in Annex 14. This assumes that the subtransmission component, together with an addidonal Baht
million investment in 22kV and LV networks, will be sufficient to provide the necessary reinforcement
measures to serve load growth in the north and northeastern regions of Thailand through 2001. The
consolidated project EIRR is evaluated based on setting project investment costs, together with EGAT LRMC
charges of 1.44 Bahts/Kwh (1993), and PEA operations and maintenance costs of 3% of production costs,
against the benefits based on the consumers willingness to pay (WTP) comprising the tariff element (average
1.68 Baht/kWh) plus a consumer surplus element. WTP is estimated for the incremental energy on a year to
year basis assuming long run price elasticity of 0.50, and assuming that WTP should not exceed the cost of self
generation (estimated at 3.5 Baht/kWh). On this basis, the EIRR for the subtransmission component by itself
is 18%, whereas the EIRR for the village electrification project is 0%. The consolidated project has an EIRR
of 17% falling to about 12% if electricity sales decrease by 10%, or capital and operating and maintenance
costs increase by 10% over the period.
B. Ris
5.6        The project does not pose any significant risks. The basic planning of the distribution system in
the area to be served by the project has been comprehensively carried out during the feasibility study stage.
Detailed project design, for which consultants are already in place. should, therefore, proceed fairly smoothly.
Implementation of the transmission lines and substations is being planned on a single responsibility basis which
should result in speedy execution of the project. In view of advanced action taken by PEA in acquiring land
for substations, this activity is not expected to pose problems in project execution. While delay in timely
execution of the project could be caused by delays in making decisions on procurement, this activity would be
closely monitored by the Bank. The risk of load growth not materializing as forecast is minimal, given the
development potential of the area. Furthermore, the project return is robust enough to maintain its economic
viability at slower than anticipated growth in energy sales. The risk of cost increases is small partly because
of the considerable competition for many of the line equipment and because of the current glut in aluminum
supplies.



.34 -
VL AGIUMlS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Aaet
6.1        It was agreed that PEA would:
(a) carry out an annual review and update of its five-year investment program, discuss this with the
Bank, and implement the program taking into consideration the Bank's comments (para.1.19);
(b) submit to the Bank audited annual financial statements within six months of the close of each
fiscal yrar and continue to have the accounts audited by independent auditors (para. 2.17);
(c)  continue to make provisions for insurance consistent with appropriate practice (para. 2.20);
(d) employ consualtancy services according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank and discuss
the results of the consultant's studies with the Bank (para. 3.7);
(e) generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 25% of its annual average capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year,
and the next following fiscal year (para. 4.13);
(f)  achieve a rate of return greater than 4% on the current value of its net fixed assets (para. 4.13);
(g)  maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 60/40 (para. 4.15); and
(h)  review by April 30 of every year the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the required self-financing
ratio (para. 4.19);
6.2        During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Govermment that it would undertake a
periodic review of power rates to ensure that tarffs are adequate for PEA to produce funds from inteal
sources equivalent to not less than 25% of its annual average capital empenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year (para. 4.13).
B.    --  
6.3        The proposed program is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent to PEA with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 17-year term including
a 5-year grace period.



- 35 -
THALAND
DlSTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROWEC
Provincial Elcbici  Authorily
Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operatios
FY88        FY89         FY90       FY91         FY92         FY93
Peak generation (MW)              5,444        6,233        7,094      8,045        8,877        9,730
Annual load factor (%)             67.1         66.1         69.5       69.8         72.0         72.9
Net energy generation (GWh)      31,997       36,457       43,189     49,225       56,006       62,180
Energy sold (GWh)                29,494       33,611       39,369     44,773       50,771       56,558
Network losses (GWh)              2,503        2,846        3,821      4,453        5,235        5,622
Network losses (as % of generation)  7.82       7.81         8.85       9.04         9.35         9.04
Number of employees              31,355       31,797       83,153     34,990       35,245       34,946
Employee per MW inslled               5           4            4           4            4           3
MEA
Peak demand (MW)                  2,432        2,715        3,124      3,519        3,993        4,265
Energy purased (GWh)             14,564       16,144       18,623     20,777       22,946       25,359
Energy sold (GWh)                 13,679      15,247       17,725     19,761       21,869       24,142
Losses (GWh)                        885          897         898         926        1,077        1,218
Losses (as % of purchases)          6.1          5.6          4.8        4.5          4.7          4.8
Number of Consumers ('000)        1,116        1,190        1,273      1,377        1,497        1,551
Salbs/consumer (kWh)             12,257       12,813       13,923     14,416       14,609       16,350
Annwal load 1ctor (%)              68.1         67.9         68.1       67.4         65.6         67.3
Number of employees               11,014      11,764       12,969     13,887       13,916       14,194
Number of consumers/employee        101          101          98          99          108         109
Peak demand (MW)                  2,770        3,266        3,763      4,282        4,983        5,780
Energy purchased (GWWh)          13,760       16,161       19,352     22,531       26,178       30,960
Energy generated (GWh)               21           17          18          20          20           20
Energy available (GWh)           13,781       16,178       19,370     22,551       26,198       30,980
Energy sold (GWh)                 12,694      14,930       17,932     20,954       24,379       28,819
Losses (GWh)                      1,087        1,248        1,438      1,597        1,819        2,161
Losses (as % of available)          7.9          7.7          7,4        7.1          6.9          7.0
Consumers ('000)                  5,551        6,069        6,586      7,082        7,546        8,044
Average energy sales/
consumer (kWh)                   2,287        2,460       2,723       2.959        3,230       3,583
Annual load actor (%)              56.8         56.6         58.8       60.1         64.4         69.2
Numberof employees               25,017       26,116       27,380     28,641       29,814       31,006
Number of consumers/employee        222          232         241         247          253         259



- 36-
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Provincial Electricity Authority
Demand Forecast
.-.,.,,_                      ,. =.                            =... _I
Fiscal Year            1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000     2001
Energy Sales (GWh)
Residential                     5,810      6,884      7,419    8,324    9,344   10,171   11,081   12,086   13,196   14,425
Small General Service           2,672      2,985      3,293    3,604    3,920    4,239    4,567    4,903    5,247    5,599
Medium General Service          7,914      9,475    10,275   11,540   12,875   14,291   15,757   17,332   19,000   20,748
Large General Service           5,640      6,655      7,114    7,890    8,716    9,572   10,477   11,425   12,398   13,410
Specific Business                  763       866        965    1,054    1,143    1,235    1,328    1,424    1,523    1,624
Govmt. Institutions &
Nonprofit Organizations       1,151      1,243     1,332    1,419    1,504    1,587    1,669    1,749    1,829    1,909
Agricultural Pumping               113       133        150       166      180       195       208       222       236       251
Temporary                          316       357        398       437      477       518       558       599       639       678
Total Sales                    24,379    28,598    30,946   34,433   38,160   41,807   45,645   49,739   54,068   58,644
Electricity Provided
Free of Charge                  158        176        195      213       232       252       273       294       316       339
Total Electricity
Consumption                  24,537    28,774    31,141   34,647   38,392   42,059   45,917   50,033   54,384   58,983
Growth p.a.                      16.42     17.3X       8.2S    11.2S    10.8Z       9.52      9.11      8.91      8.61      7.91
Losses (Z)                          7X        77        7n         7X       71        7X        72        71        71        72
TE-DSRP.AN2



ANNEX 3
- 37 -
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Provincial Electricity Authority
PEA's Distribution Facilities
1987     1988      1989       1990      1991       1992
High Voltage Distribution
Lines (Circuit-Kilometers)
Medium Voltage
3.5 kV                           32        58        58         61         61         61
11 kV                           953        55        30          -          -
22 kV                        95,610   105,284   115,724   127,946    133,836   144,139
33 kV                        16,431    20,819    22,122    24,508      26,368    27,537
High Voltage
69 kV                            28        30        30         31         31         32
115 kV                            28        28         37        61        129        304
Transformer Capacity (MVA)
Medium Volgate
3.5 kV                            7        12        12         12         12         12
11 kV                           156       145       145        145          7          1
22 kV                         6,049     6,859     7,725      8,532      9,930    10,970
33 kV                         1,120     1,232     1,328      1,422      1,963      2,023
High Voltage
69 kV                            80        80        80         80        480        480
115 kV                           120       120       120        120        814        985
Low Voltage (thousand km)        130       152        171       191        203        218
Ratio MV/LV                     0.86      0.83       0.81      0.80       0.78       0.78
Ratio Peak Demand (MW)          3.03      2.97       2,81      2,68       2.78       2.61
TH-DSRP .M3



ANNEX 4
- 38 -
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Provincial Electricity Authority
PEA's Investment Program
(Baht million)
1993     1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
1. Distribution System              F     3,737    2,048    3,224       3,592    5,721    5,377    7,257    7,357          7,789
Expansion                       L      4,800   13,269    4,524       4,759    6,085    5,310    7,916    7,970          8,439
and Reinforcement               T      8,537   15,317    7,748       8,351   11,806   10,687   15,173   15,327    16,228
2. Distribution System              F      1,275         -    2,508      2,561    2,900    2,400    1,800       1,800      1,800
Upgrading                       L      1,830       504    3,582      4,161    4,380    3,525    2,700    2,700         2,700
to 115 kV                       T      3,105       504    6,090      6,722    7,280    5,925    4,500    4,500         4,500
3. Load Dispatching Cen.ter        F           -         -        -       300    1,100    1,100         500       500        500
L          _         -         -       300    1,100    1,100        500       500        500
T                    -         -       600    2,200    2,200    1,000    1,000         1,000
4. Rural Electrification           F           -         -      170       300       544          -         -         -         _
L      1,135    1,257    1,860       1,730       572         _        _          _
T     1,135    1,257    2,030       2,030    1,116                    _
5. Power Supply for New             F          -         -         -         -         -        -         -          -
Economic and Industrial         L        600       296    2,129      1,900    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000         2,000
Areas                            T        600      296    2,129      1,900    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000         2,000
6. Strengthening Operational        F          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         _
and Service Capability          L           -      650    2,640      1,710    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500         1,500
T          -      650    2,640      1,710    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500          1,500
7. Mini-Hydro                       F          -         -      137        137         -         -        -          -         _
L          _         _      151        151         _        _         _         _
T          _         _      288       288          -         -        -         -          -
8. Submarine Cable                  F          _         _       90        410      640       240       240       240       240
L          -        21       31        129       180       60        60        60         60
T          -        21      121        539      820       300       300       300        300
9. Research and Development         F          -         -       60          -         -         -         -         -
L          -        60       55         45         _         _        _          _
T          -        60      115         45         -         -         -         -         _
F     5,012    2,048    6,189    7,300   10,905    9.117    9,797    9,897    10,529
TOTAL                      L      8,365   16,057   14,972    14,885    9,817   13.495   14,676   14,730    15,199
T    13,377   18.105   21,161   22,185   20,722   22,612   24,473   24.627    25,528
Increase Sales GWh                        4,219    6,567   10,054    13,781   17,428   21,266   25,360   29,689    34,265
Net Present Value of Investment 8 12S - 102,676 million Baht.
Net Present Value Inc. Sales (maintained to 2010) - 147,326 GWh.
Av. Incr. Cost/kWh = 0.81 B/kWh or 3.25c/kWh.
TH-DSRP.AN4



-39 -                                 ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES
FOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FEASIBILITY STUDY AND IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM FOR PRIVATE
PARTICIPATION/COMMERCIALIZATION OF PEA
A.    - -B _k --n and Rationae
1.        Background. Thailand has been experiencing an economic boom since 1987. Between
1987 and 1990, Thailand's GDP growth was among the highest in the world, averaging over 11% p.a.
Since 1990, growth has been at about 8% p.a., which rate is expected to continue through 1996. The
rapid economic growth has resulted in a concomitant growth in electricity demand, averaging 15% p.a.
in the past three years. Demand for electricity is forecast to grow at a rate of 9% p.a. over 1993-97.
2.        In Thailand there are three state enterprises that collaborate and share responsibility for
electricity supply: these are the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) which is
responsible for generation and transmission of bulk electricity for the entire country; the Metropolitan
Electricity Authority (MEA) which distributes electricity in the Bangkok metropolitan area, and the
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) which distributes electricity in all parts of the country except
those served by MEA.
3.        In its Sixth National Economic and Social Development Plan, the Government decided to
proceed with corporatization of and increased private sector participation in certain state enterprises,
with the following objectives:
(a)   To encourage the state enterprise to perform more efficiently;
(b)  To relieve the Government's financial and investment burdens vis-a-vis the state
enterprises; and
(c)   To decrease the Government's foreign debt burden.
4.         Having decided to proceed with privatization, the Govermment has recently short-listed 15
state enterprise public utilities for privatization; the three power utilities are included among these 15
enterprises. For the power sector specifically, the Government has developed tentative plans for
privatizing the generating authority, EGAT, and corportzing the distribution authorities, MEA and
PEA, with the intention of possibly splitting PEA into four regional companies.
5.         The government policy regarding PEA, as confirmed by the Government's resolution on
September 12, 1992, sets the following targets for PEA:
(a) Converting PEA to Excellent State Enterprise Status so as to allow more flexibility and
efficiency in its operations and management;
(b) Preparation toward the corporatization of PEA, and possible regionalization of the
company;



ANNEX 5
- 40 -                             Page 2 of 6
(c)   Restructuring PEA into a Business Limited company (subject to passage of legislation to
allow this); and
(d)  Dividing PEA into regional electrical companies, if appropriate.
B. Objectives of the Study
6.         PEA and the Government of Thailand are considering options for the commercialization of
PEA and for increased private sector participation in and possible privatization of the enterprise. The
objective of the consultancy is to assist the Government and PEA in examining, identifying and
evaluating opportunities and recommending an implementation program for private participation in and
commercialization of PEA in accordance with Government's approved policy implementation.
7.         The framework under which PEA operates will need to be changed if commercialization/
privatization options are pursued. In addition, the structure of PEA itself may be changed. The
consultancy should focus first on the changes necessary to enable and allow the conmmercialization of
PEA, and second should examine the advantages and disadvantages of privatizing PEA, give a
recommendation regarding privatization, and outline the steps which would be necessary to accomplish
commercialization and privatization.  The consultants are asked to describe the objectives of
commercialization and privatization and to say how those objectives would be met through the proposed
process: they are asked to advise on the desirability and feasibility of commercializing and privatizing
PEA.
C. Scope of Work
8.         The Consultants shall assist the Government and PEA in examining PEA's operational
efficiency and performance with the view to recommending how PEA's framework can be made more
commercial in accordance with Government's approved policy implementation as mentioned in the
preceding section. The consultants are required to explore the options of dividing PEA into a number
of companies, and privatizing PEA as a whole.
9.         The consultants shall conduct studies and make recommendations which will cover, but are
not necessarily limited to, the following:
(a)  legal issues involved and steps required. Therefore, the consultants are required to outline
and subsequently elaborate the legislative and regulatory steps required to accomplish the
commercialization and/or probable privatization. The consultants are also required to set
a time table for realizing the legislative and regulatory steps.
(b)  regulatory issutes - determining the appropriate regulatory framework under which PEA
can operate most efficiendly, Specifically, the consultants would propose the best
regulatory structure to oversee a commercialized or privatized PEA. The consultants must
elaborate for example, the structure of the regulatory agency, its location (independence)
within government and its scope of authority for regulation. Proposals for regulating
tariffs and/or utility costs and investments (e.g. through a rate of return mechanism or
through price caps) should be analyzed. Whatever mechanisms are established for



ANNEX 5
- 41 -                               Page 3 of 6
commercialization of PEA, the consultants should give prominence to the following
points:
(i)  accountability of PEA's board and management for performance;
(ii)  autonomy of decisions on investment, borrowing, pricing and personnel policies;
(iii)  independent regulatory agency structures;
(iv)  operations in accordance with the same commercial principles as apply to private
sector companies (including liability for taxes on profits and dividends on equity
capital, accounting standards and practices, etc.);
(v)  directors appointed on the basis of commercial ability, and appointed for fxed
terms;
(vi)  subsidies and social programs of the Government financed directly from the budget;
(vii) financial targets which enable adequate (fair) return on shareholders' funds but
provide incentives for increased efficiency; and
(viii) corporate objecti" s, plans and performance targets agreed by Government.
(c)  financial issues which relate to appropriate accounting and corporate financing systems for
PEA under the new framework of being commercialized or privatized. The issues listed
below need to be addressed:
(i)  areas of PEA operations where efficiency and productivity could be substantially
increased by moving one or more specific functions or operations to subsidiaries or
privately owned companies;
(ii) potential revenue opportunities which depend on either PEA mainline or sideline
businesses;
(iii) areas of expenditure which are the main activity of private sector companies which
have lower costs and which require unskilled or semi-skilled but intensive labor
where social and overhead costs are probably substantially lower in the private
sector (e.g. routine maintenance, leasing, etc.); and
(iv) other opportunities which may best be carried out using incenuve systems which are
more common in the private sector.
(d)   As a financial issue, the consultants should assess the value of PEA's assets and analyze
the implications of differences between book value and market value. All financial
implications of privatization should be analyzed and made explicit by the consultants:
including, for example, the need to pay dividends, with its implication on PEA's equity
growth and debt/equity structure. Also the cost of debt for private sector companies must



- 42 -                            ANNEXS
Page 4 of 6
be compared with the lower official borrowing rates which PEA now pays, and the
implications of this on PEA's profitability must be assessed.
(e)   Possible regionalization of PEA must be considered by the consultants with an analysis of
the advantages and disadvantages of dividing PEA into more than one company; a
recommendation should be made accordingly. The number of companies into which PEA
should be divided should be evaluated. The consequences for PEA's operations and
finances for staffing, for communication and for efficiency, all must be presented. If a
division of PEA into triore than one company is proposed, the consultant should provide
details and an implementation plan.
(f)  In analyzing regulation and regionalization, the consultants should consider implications on
the tariff (from economic, financial, equity and political perspectives). The following
specific items should be addressed:
(i) the wholesale tariff, including whether the tariff should include the Metropolitan
Electricity Authority to Provincial Electricity Authority subsidy as it currendy does;
whether the wholesale tariff should differ from region to region depending on costs;
and whether the wholesale tariff should include separate capacity and demand
charge components, with peak and off-peak differentiation;
(ii) the retail tariff and whether this should remain the same for users everywhere in the
country or whether it should differ by region (inside and outside Bangkok);
(iii) the question of subsidies - their appropriateness and the proper mechanism for
implementing them; should subsidies be included in the retail tariff, as they are
currently, or should they in some way be more transparent? Should the subsidies
be funded by urban electricity users or should they come out of general revemnes;
and
(iv) analysis of the model for commercialization and possible privatization, with
cons deration of the number of regional companies into which PEA would be
divided. This should be done in the context of regulation: specifically, the
consultancy should consider whether more than one provincial distribution company
would provide the capability of a more market-based regulatory system (in which
specific price cap levels or approved investment, for example, would be indicated
by the performance of the different companies).
Og) The consultant should address the rationalization of the electricity transmission/
subtransmission/distribution system in Thailand and analyze the appropriateness of
transferring Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand's 115kV facilities to PEA.
(h)   Management. Organization and Human Resources. The consultants will need to advise on
the appropriateness of employment arrangements, organizational structures and the breadth
of the management team for PEA in the new framework. As part of this they wiU need to
familiarize themselves with existing arrangements for settling pay and benefit conditions in
public enterprises and consider whether and if so what changes might be needed. They



- 43 -                             ANNEXS
Page 5 of 6
will be expected to give a preliminary view of the implications of privatization for these
arrangements, including practical issues such as pension arrangements.
(i)   The consultant shall consider the following in terms of the benefit to PEA, its customers
and the Government:
(i) capital gain from a potential sale;
(ii) reduced investment requirement to support an activity in the future;
(iii) increased revenue from franchising an activity or elimination of an activity which
loses money;
(iv) reduced expenditure and overhead and corresponding lower working capital
requirements; and
(v) improved customer satisfaction, increased employee benefits or increased financial
return to the Government.
(j) Recommendations shalt include courses of action and proposed implementation programs.
D). 
10.        An outline of the study plan describing methodology and proposed examination review,
detailed study, evaluation and appraisal as well as planned presentation shall be prepared and submitted
to all parties concerned.
11.        A draft report covering all aspects as mentioned in the terms of reference shall be made.
12.        Submittal of a draft report in 10 copies to PEA, the Government and the World Bank for
review and comment shall be made.
13.        An oral presentation of the consultant's findings, conclusions, and recommendations shall
be conducted at the agreed appropriate time.
14.        Submittal of the final report in 20 copies to PEA, the Government and the Bank shall be
made.
15.        The following report content is suggested:
(a)   Executive Summary
(b) Description of Pertinent Issues
(c)   Discussion of Findings, Conclusions and Recommendations
(d)  Necessary Supplementary Matrial (Appendices)



- 44 -                             ANNEXS
Page 6 of 6
E. Paiod of Stud  and Report 
16.        The consultancy period shall not exceed 6 months.
17.        A draft report shall be submitted to all parties concerned within 4 months after
commencement of the service.
18.        A final report shall be submitted to all parties concerned within 2 months after submission
of the comments on the draft report by PEA and the World Bank.
F. Expertise Requhred
19.        The consultants are expected to have expertise in the following disciplines:
*    electrical system/electrical engineering
*    regulatory structures
*    privatization process
e    legislative process
*    electricity/energy policy and management
*    knowledge and background in economics, management, accounting and corporate financ4,
taxation and corporate law
20.        The team of consultants should include expertise on existing Thai legal and regulatory
structures.
G. Sore of Infoi
21.        The consultants will be provided by PEA infornation on the electricity sector. They
should also discuss aspects of their task with EGAT and MEA and with relevant Government officials.
22.        The consultants should be familiar with recent examples of commercialization and/or
privatization in other countries, looking at comparative situations to analyze precedents and apply the
experience of other similar efforts to the PEA situation.



-45-                              Page I of3
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES
FOR DESIGN & IMPLEMENTATION
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
1.         PEA is embarking on a major expansion plan to reinforce its extensive 22kV distribution
systems, by superimposing 115kV subtransmission networks to inject power at intermediate points
primarily for voltage support and to increase reliability. Many of the new lines that will be built under
the Bank financed component of the Project are a long distance from the main centers and it will be
necessary to design more cost effective 115kV lines using cheaper materials than are used in the higher
load areas. PEA is also completing the final phases of its rural electrification project by providing
electricity services to the less economic rural areas where characterized by scattered villages with low
demands. To mimmze reticulation costs PEA is interested in obtaining experience in low cost
reticulation from other countries where this is applicable.
2.         Previous consultants have assisted PEA to establish design standards and planning
methodology, using computerized mapping and analytical computational systems, that are genera'ly
applicable throughout the project area. There is still considerable work required to assist PEA to
implement these throughout all its regional centers. Consultants are therefore required to assist PEA in
the following areas of activity:
3.         Subtransmission Design
(a)   Review PEA's concrete transmission pole specifications to encourage bidders to identify
ways of reducing cost. This would be by specifying alternative configurations that can be
manufactured locally, by increasing the range of sizes that can be used to increase spans
on route deviations, and by reducing weight to reduce costs in transportation.
(b) Investigate alternate 22m structures e.g. square section lattice towers, or imported wood
poles that can accommodate underlying 22kV and LV circuits and prepare suitable
specifications that can be used to compare their performance and cost against concrete
poles.
(c) Review foundation designs and propose lower cost alternatives suited to different soil
conditions
(d)   Assist PEA to streamline pre-qualification, bidding and evaluation procedures by
preparation of standardized proforma reports acceptable to the Bank.
(e)   Assist PEA to establish a project management data base, reporting procedures and reports
for monitoring and control project implementation satisfactory to the Bank.



- 46 -                            ANNEX6
Page 2 of 3
4.         Implementation of AM/FM Svstem:
(a)   Preparation of a Project Plan. A detailed Project Plan shall be prepared by the Consultant
before commencing any other project activities. The Project Plan shall incorporate at least
the following: (i) a detailed project schedule; (ii) detailed tasks for all project personmel
(both Consultant and assigned PEA personnel); (iii) an organizational structure for the
project team, and detailed task descriptions for each team member; (iv) identification of
training requirements for PEA personnel to enable their full participation in the project.
(b)  Establishment of a TDSM Resource Center. The Consultant shall assist PEA with the
establishment of a TDSM Resource Center for the purpose of: (i) training personnel in all
aspects of TDSM use; (ii) monitoring and coordinating the data conversion activities for
the TDSM system and performing quality assurance checks on all such data throughout
PEA; (iii) managing and monitoring the databases which comprise TDSM; and (iv)
providing a skilled resource of personnel capable of supporting all aspects of TDSM
hardware and software on a daily basis, and performing all levels of training in TDSM
use.
The Consultant's scope of work in this regard shall consist of: (i) define the organization
structure for the TDSM Resource Center and help PEA establish the Resource Center; (ii) provide
specialist personnel to staff the Resource Center in a parallel role to the key PEA personnel assigned to
the facility; (iii) prepare procedural documentadon for TDSM management and operation; and (iv) train
PEA personnel in the following:
-    application of all procedural documentadon
-    database administration and management
-    data conversion (graphics and textual) and quality control
-    TDSM customisadons and development
-    TDSM system support and operatiorP
(c)  Review and Update Master Plan. The Consultant shall review the recommendations made
in the Master Plan and, if necessary, update those recommendations. However, any
proposed changes in technology (hardware or software) shall be made only within the
general framework of recommendations made in the approved Master Plan and shall be
based on well proven and locally suppoited technology. The Consultant's scope of work
in this regard shall consist of: (i) review of the Master Plan; (ii) prepare a report
outlining the results of the review; and (iii) include in the report an updated cost estimate
for TDSM implenentation throughout PEA.
(d)  Procurement Bidding. The Consultant shall prepare bid documents for the implementation
of TDSM.  The bid documents shall include any modifications to the Master Plan
following the review carried out under TOR Section 3.3. Assistance shall be given to
PEA with Bidder prequalification, bid evaluation, and contract negotiations. The
Consultant's scope of work in this regard shall consis.- of preparation of detailed bid
documents in the English language for the implementation of TDSM. The bid documents
shall allow for the provision of at least the following: (i) supply, delivery and installation
at the Area Offices; commissioning and acceptance testing of TDSM system including all
hardware, software, software customisations, and documentation; (ii) training of PEA



ANNEX-6
- 47 -                            Page 3 of3
personnel in system management and operation, TDSM applications management and
operation and TDSM customisation and database support; (iii) assist PEA with Bidder
prequalification and International Competitive Bidding; (iv) assist PEA with bid evaluation
and preparation of a bid evaluation report; and (v) assist PEA with contract negotiations
with the selected Bidders.
(e)   Supervision of Installation and Commissioning of TDSM. The Consultant shall supervise
the installation and comniissioning of TDSM systems by the Vendor. Assistance shall be
given to PEA in the performance of TDSM system acceptance testing.
(f) Supervision of Data Conversion. The conversion of current maps and textual/tabular data
into TDSM is expected to continue for several years. The Consultant's scope of work in
this regard shall consist of: (i) supervise the data conversion work to ensure that the
approved procedures and quality assurance practices are being applied; (ii) define any
necessary upgrades to the TDSM data conversion user interfaces and practices to maintain
optimum performance in this project activity.
(g) TDSM Review. Periodically during the Services the Consultant Shall: (i) audit the
TDSM system performance; (ii) perform an audit on data conversion activities; (iii)
perform an audit on the TDSM databases and database management practices; (iv) perform
an audit on the practices of TDSM system management, support, and operations; and (v)
perform an audit on the current state of personnel skills in TDSM usage, and ongoing
training programs for all aspects of the TDSM system.
5.         Final Repo. The Consultant shall prepare a report at the completion of the Services.
This report shall review the Services and shall include: (i) a summary of the staus and utilization of
the TDSM systems in the PEA Area Offices; (ii) an evaluation of the effectiveness of the TDSM
Resource Center. Report on options for any improvements to its staffing and operations; and (iii)
recommendations for ongoing development of the TDSM system.
6.         Poject Roning. In addition to the reports required by Section 3 of these TOR the
Consultant shall report monthly to PEA on progress and any problems being experienced.



Dltbton System Re re     Proet:
Scope of 115IV WSubnnsmblon Com ent
1 ivinisune Una*ustation
From Bdst                           To Nw PEA       Tansomers  Feeds   /S   a  Costs BahtM 199)            ToalCost Inc IDC
EBAT Substaion    Conductor  Length   Substation   oc    M MVA Tat HV MV  Ye    Tans   Substn   Total   Tras Substn $IWA
z  MVA   km                                                      aM       Om       BM     UStM   US$m
Phan I Dmd projects
Phttsanulok2          1^400  80     45 WangThong   N   I  50   50   3   5  1994  114.075  66.337  180.412   7.81   4.74  251
Nakhon Sawan 1        2^400 150     10 Nakhon Sawan 2 N   2  50  100   5  10  1994   30.970 100.096  131.066   2.12   7.15   93
Lamphun 2             2*400 150      7 Lamphun 3      N   2  50  100   5  10  1994   21.679 100.096  121.775   1.48   7.15   86
Chang Mal 3           2*400 150     10 Chang Mal 4    N   2  50  100   5  10  1994   30.970 127.218  158.188   2.12   9.09  112
Chiang Ral            1*400  80     93 Fang           N   1  50   50   3   5  1995  235.755  66.337  302.092  16.14   4.74  418          1
Manoram               1 *400  80    40 Chainat        N   1  50   50   4   5  1995  101.400  66.337  167.737   6.94   4.74  234         4-
Nam phong             1 ^400  80    75 Sulthat        NE 1  25   25   3   5  1995  190.125  60.218  250.343  13.02   4.30  693          c
HuaThaLao             1'400  80     25 Chokohal       NE  1  50   50   3  10  1995  190.125  60.218  250.343  13.02   4.30  346         1
525  31  60                                    6.66  46.23  20
Phase N Dw amen proet
ChamnThong            1'400  80     75 U              N   1  25   25   3   5  1996  190.125  60218  250.343  13.02   4.30  693
Phrme                 1*400  80     30 Den Chal       N   1  25   25   3   5  1996  101.400  66.337  167.737   6.94   4.74  467
Nan                   1*400  80     55 Pua            N   1 2255  4   6  1996   7050  60.218  136.268 5.21   4.30  380
UdonThan I            1*400  80     55 Ban Phue       NE 1  25   25   3   5  1996  152.100  60.218  212.318  10.42   4.30  589
Loel                 1P400  80      60 ChiangKhan   NE  1  25   25   3   5  1996  164.775  60.218  224.993  11.28   4.30  623
Khong                 1 *400  80    50 Hual Thalaeng  NE  1  25   25   3   5  1996  126.450  60.218  186.968   8.66   4.30  519
LomSakSS             1P400  80      65 DanBai         NE  1  25   25   3   5  1996  164.775  60.218  224.993  11.28   4.30  623
Phang Khon            1'^400  80    70 Seka           NE  1  25   25   3   5  1996  177.450  60.218  237.668  12.15   4.30  658
Ubon Patchathani      1400  80      50 Trakan Phutpon NE  1  25   25   3   5  1996  126.750  60.218  186.968   6.66   4.30  519
Chalyaphum            1*400  80     50 KaengThro    NE  1  25   25   3   5  1998  126.750  60.218  186968   868   4.30  519
PhayakKhaphumPhsai  1*400  80       80 ThaTum         NE  1  25   25   3   5  1998  152.100  60218  212.318  10.42   4.30  589
275 34  55                                    106.76  47.78  562
TotvJ tt5 W VubtrTsnonk            925                   22       800  65 115         2474.124 1315.37 3789.498  169.42  94.01  329



- 49 -                                  AM=U .2
Distibtinon System Reinforcement Project
Scope of Village  lectication Component
DescrIpton       Oty  Unit Type        Forex   Local   Total  USS000 Codsunlt
B000   9000   9000
Medium Voltage 33 kV llnes       Span
3Phasel20A              30 ckm   80            4925   2567    7492    300   10.0 kSJkm
3Phase95A               50 ckm   80            6883   4206   11069    443   8.9 kU/km
3 Phase 50 ACSR         80 ckm   80            8355   6520   14875    595   7.4 k$1km
I Phase 50 ACSR        105 ckm   80            5248   7968   13216    529   5.0 k$/km
3Phasel20AC             15 ckm   40           13039   2851   15890    636  42.4 k$Skm
3Phasel20A              20 ckm   40            4158   3243    7401    296   14.8 k$/km
3Phase95A               30 ckm   40            5298   4816   10114    405   13.5 kldkm
DropOutFuses           100 sets                 328    125      453      18   131 5/#
Medium Voltage 33 kV lines    ckm
3Phasel20A             250 ckm   80           35177  19042   54219   2169   8.7 kS$km
3 Phase 95 A           420 ckm   80           47790  31338   79128   3165   7.5 kSlkm
3 Phase 50 ACSR       1560 ckm   80          126187  12464  138651   5546   3.6 k$/km
1 Phase 50 ACSR       2555 ckm   80          144067 175971  320038  12802   5.0 k$1km
3 Phase 120 A           40 ckm   40            4212   3603    7815    313    7.8 kS/km
3Phase95A               35 ckm   40            4801   4988    9789    392   11.2 kSlkm
3 Phase 50 ACSR        130 ckm   40           13476  18181   31657   1266   9.7 kS/km
1 Phase50ACSR          155 ckm   40           11475  20903   32378   1295   84 k$skm
Drop Out Fuses        1000 ses                 1239    529    1768       71    71 $1#
Distribution Tranformers         kVA  MVA
1-P 19/0.23kV          118 unit  20   ?4    4282    584    4866    195    82 kS/kVA
1-P 19/0.23kV           64 unit  30   1.9   2454    346    2800    112    58 ks/VA
3-P 19/0.40kV           18 unit  50   0.9    1502    355    1857         74    83 k$IkVA
1-P2210.23kV          1580 unit  20  31.6  53342   7816   61158   2446    77 kS/kVA
I-P 2/0.23kV          1044 unit  30  31.3  37910   5666   43576   1743    56 k$/kVA
3-P 22/0.40kV          154 unIt  50   7.7    9472   2475   11947    478    62 kSkVA
3-P 2210.40kV           82 unit  100   82    6489   1410    7899    316    39 k$/kVA
Low Voltage DistrIuon (underslungD
1-PSOAW.A2W            352 ckm   80           18216  11259   29475   1179   3.3 ks/km
1-P50AW.A3W            238 ckm   80           18888   8109   26997   1080   4.5 ks/km
3-P50AW.A4W            128 ckm   80           13699   5144   18843    754   5.9 ks/km
3-P70AW.A4W             82 ckm   80           10889   3407   14296    572   7.0 kS/km
Low VoRage DmtbutIon
1-P35AW.A2W           1792 ckm   40           70157  91300  161457   6458   36 ks/km
1-P5OAW.A2W           2734 ckm   40          141143 141470  282613  11305   4.1 kS/km
1-P50AW.A3W           2010 ckm   40          159698 108522  268220  10729   5.3 ks/km
3-P 50 AW.A 4W         576 ckm   40           61541  36848   98389   3936   6.8 ks/km
3-P70AW.A4W             82 ckm   40           10874   5358   16232    649   7.9 ks/km
Ughtning Arrstors
IP2W&Ground            512 unit                 358      96     454      18    35 $11
1P3W&Ground           1358 unit                1075    352    1427       57    42 $/#
1P4W&Ground           2930 unit                2590    968    3558    142    49 $1#
Grounding              500 sets                 301      58     359      14    29 $/N
Service MeterIng       120 kses               95755  24648  120403   4816    40 $S
Total Base Costs                            1157273 775506 1932779  77311   920 $/kVA
644 $1cons



- 50 -
AnnS
Dibuon Syutorn Ronfa mmwi Pr*c
PEWS Summaty of Costs
e0ane rte 1US$u        2506m  Gem
MM mlion                        US *$ elon
ASUBSTATIONS                     Local  Fogn   Total              Local  Foreign   Total
Site preparatIon              280.500    0.000  280.600          11.22     0.00    11.2
Cvil wodae                    226.680    0.000  228880            0.08     0.00     0.06
Transorme                       0.000  353.665  353.686           0.00    14.15    14.15
Swltohge                        0000  450.8    40.86N             0.00    18.03    18.03
Control & Awdlare               0.000    3.a5     35              0.00     0.14     0.14
Communcaons                    11.910   27.00   389.00            0.48     1.10     1.88
Instaglon                      10.530    0.000   10lO53           0.42     0.00     0.42
Transpot                       20.883    0.000   20M883           0.83     0.00    O.S
EngeHedng &Admin                3.167   27.580   30.747           0.13     1.10     1.23
Fadiles                      122.834    0.000  122.834           4.01     0.00     4.01
Duties andtaxes               21t.690    0.000  210.606           8.80     0.00     8A.0
Easm coet & 014               m8O8o  863.1AS  17M.779           35B      34.83    70.30
Physical contnencies,     8t%  71.437   6681  13i.288             21U6     2.7      85.3
Pri ceontedingenc        16%  217666   78.077  296.743            8.6       .2     11.893
IDC                       7%   88.5S0   70.866  18.416            3.42     2.83     6.20
Subtoa substaions            1271.238 1078.800 2350.223          80.78    43.26   s0401
BTRANSMIS8ION
Pole and Foundabons          10657.005    0.000 1657.00          628       0.40    6.
AH1ngo & FWbicatIon           122.835  219.886  342.720           4.01     8.80    13.71
Insulator and hardwar           0.000  360.324  360.324           0.00    14.41    14A1
Labour for Ereton             12841    0.000  162.841             8.11     0.00     8.11
Tranwpont                      8.136    0.000    2.196            .00      0.00     2.00
Engineing and admin            48.856    8.780   54.008           1.3      0.m      2.18
fcite                         208.30    0.000  20.83              8.34     0.00     .4
Dutles and tm4ee              246.61    0.000  248.691            9.87     0.00     0.87
BaseCost&OMS                 2488.902  58.060 3074.861          09.44    28.8    122.
Physical contindges       $8  198.573   40.417  244.06            7.04     1.86     0.80
Puc ontriqn              24%  608780§   66.478  782.085          27.29     2.83    30.12
IDC                       8%  269.786  S.70  328.186            10.71     2.21    13.01
Subtal Tranunislon           3641.770  7560222 43992            148.46    30.S    178.92
C VILLASEEL:TRFICATINPROJECT
PF d8XAnnsAnch                87.000    0.000  867.000           22.08     0.00    2LO8
Hardware                      114.000    0.000  114.000           4.86     0.00     4.66
Se Wirs                        43.000    0.000   43000            1.72     0.00     1.72
Conducto                      330.000  208. 0    838.000         13.20     8.32    21.2
Insuators                       0.000   04.000   04.000           0.00     a8       2.8
Conduor _ coseade              28000   o0o0    2.000              0.2      0.0      0.6
Protcie equIpment               0.000   21.000   21.000           0.00     0.84     0.4
t_anms                          0.000   90.000   90.000           0.00     3.66     3.60
metwrs                          0.000   70.000   70.000           0.00     2.80     2.80
FacIlides                     128.000    0.000  128.000           8O0      0.00     8.00
Labour                        173.000   O0.0   178.000            6.2      o00      6a
Transoet                       65.00     0.000   36.000           1AO      0.00     1.40
Survey&Supeeson                L2000    0.000   52.000            LOS      0.00     2.0
Dud"sand tes                   48.000    0.000   48.000           1.62     0.00     1.02
Base Cost OlMH               1510.000  483.000 1663.000           0.40    13.12    78J2
PhylontingencIes         11%  174.O0   40.000  223.000            8.08     1.66     ae.4
Prcconingenoce           14%  240.000   30.000  27mno             0.80     1.6     11.10
IDC                       86% 110.430   27.050  137.480           4.42     1.0a     80
Subtota VEP                  203.030  8.060 2603.080             81.S0    2282   104.12
D TEHtWNICAlSSISTANCE
Consung Services                7600   120   2.70                 0.30     0.68    O05
Tdal Project cots              665    24190.12  375.45          2771      07.10   3500



- 51 -
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank (FY)                   FY95         FY96          FY97         FY98
Transmission
Ingots/Conductors                     3.0          7.7           -
Poles & Materials                     1.0          6.0           6.0          3.7
Village Electrification
Ingots/Conductors                     1.0          4.0          4.0           1.3
Distribution Equipment                1.0          4.0           4.0          2.4
Technical Assistance                    0.5          0.2           0.3
Total                             6.5         21.9         14.2           7.4
Cumulative                        6.5         28.4         42.7          50.0



- 52 -                              ANNEX 10
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Bank Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Inputs to Key Activities
1.         The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to the regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, financial statements and audit reports. and
associated correspondence. In the first year about 12 staffweeks will be required to review progress
with project preparation and establish appropriate procedures for minotoring the program. Thereafter
an average of 8 staffweeks per year will be needed to supervise the project timed to coincide with
project milestones as indicated in the attached schedule. Site visits will generally be combined with the
supervision of other Bank-financed projects under execution.
Bank Staff Inputs for Project Supervision
e Aproxmate                         Activity                         Anticipated  Input in
Dates                                                                Skill      Staff
::_ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Reqired  W eeks
09/94         e Review project management facilities and define reporting   Management  2
Ongoing          requirements.
Loan          0 Finalize TOR for consultants and invite proposals.
Processing    0 Prepare standard bid evaluation procedures and reports to   Engineering  2
Bank.
o Review financial covenants.                         Financial        2
* Initiate dialogue with EGAT re subtransmission interfaces.           2
* Visit sites in North region.                                         2
Regular Supervision Mission (2 in 1995)
08/95         0 Review procurement program and land acquisition.     Engineering     2
12/95         0 Review consultants reports and determine action plan.  Management    2
* Prepare TOR for subtransmnission study, and project  Management     2
preparation.
* Review project management procedures.                                2
Supervision Mission - Project Implementation
03/95-97      0 Review contract awards and reconciliation with loan                  2
agreements.
09/95-97      0 Visit sites to inspect progress.                                     2
o Project Preparation missions.                                        2
0 Project Completion Reports.                                          2



ANN  11
- 53 -                                                       Page 1 of 3
THAUlAND
D1STRIBDUTION SVSIEM REINFORCEENIT PROJECT
PEA's Past Fina Peormance
Income Statement
(Daht milion)
ACTUAL
Years Endng Sep_tmbr 30
1989         1990          199          112            1993
ENERGY SALES (GWh)                                     14,817       17,805        20,812        24,379        28,819
SALES INCREASE (%)                                         18           20            17            17            18
AVERAGE TARIFF( B/kWh)                                   1.62         1.62          1.63          1.60          1.62
Overanan Revemne
Energy Revenuo                                        24,028       29,033        34,219         39,028       46,711
Other Operting Revenue                                   761          832          1,085         1,173         1,871
Total Operating Revenue                                24,789       29,865        35,304        40,201        48,582
Overains Extenses
Purchased Power                                        16,806      20,124        23,430        25,617        29.908
Fuel and OiR                                              18           16            27            29            30
Operatng and Maintenance                               3,082        3,789         4.494         5,371         6,692
Dereciation                                            2,356        2,710         3,105         3,584         3,994
Remittance to Government                                 205          370           578           871          1,670
Tota Operating Expenses                                22,467       27,009        31,634        35,472        42.294
Operadng Income                                         2,322        2,856         3,670         4,729         6,288
Non-operating Income                                      802        1,169         1,845         2,010         1.564
Non-overatina Expenses
Inerest charged to Opertions                            1,222        1,157         1,130         1,023          961
Foreign Exchange Loss                                    428          415           481           S47           385
Other                                                     63           74           100           132           225
Total Non-OpertingEixpenses                             1,713        1,646         1,711         1,702         1,571
Net Income                                              1.411        2,379         3,804         5,037         6,281
AVERAGE RATE BASE                                      24,137       27,235        29,956        34,271        37,864
RATE OF RETURN (Opea8t btimeAve   Raft Base)              9.6         10.5          12.3          13.8          16.6
OPERATING RATIO (%)                                        91           90            90            88            87
1NtDSR.AII



ANNEX II
54 -                                                     Page 2 of 3
THAUAND
DlSRIBUTON SYSIEM RCINFORCEMENT PROJECT
PEA's Pa  Tanda Pertenance
Funds 11ew Statement
ACTUAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Inwena}sources 
Operating and Odter Income                            2,633         3,536         4,934         6.060         7,242
Add: Depreciation                                     2,356         2,710         3,105         3,584         3,994
Odter Non-Cash Items (Net)                               71            58           (41)         (78)          (2S0)
Total Internal Sources                             5,060         6,304         7.998         9,566        10,986
rCusomer Deposis                                        287           323            343          345            356
Government ContIbutions                                 255           712            592          870            179
Grants and Consumer Contiuions                          959          1,224         2,005         2,293         2.213
Borrowins                                              1,575         1,193         1,234         1,305         1,137
Change in Odter Assets, Uaities (Net)                  (553)         (605)         (612)         1,085         1,128
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                             7,583         9.151        11,S60        15,464         15,999
APPtICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Invesmn                                        4,164         4,906         6,165         7,934         8,089
Debt Servie
Interest                                              1,222         1,157         1,130         1.023          961
Principal                                             1,246         1,378         1.443        2,681          1,852
Total Debt Sevice                                  2,468         2,535         2,573         3,704         2,813
Increase in Non-cash Working Capital                    523           (61)         1,331         (816)         3,666
Increase in Cash                                        428          1,771         1,491         4,642         1,413
Increase (Decrease) m Workig Capital                  951         1,710         2,822         3,826         5,097
TOTAL APILICATION OF FUNDS                         7,583         9,151        11560         15,464        15,999
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                    2.1           2.5           3.1           2.6           3.9
3 YEARS A.VERAGE INVESTMENT                            4,295         5,078         6,335         9,159         9,970
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (3 YRS., AVE.) (%)                  48            75             65           73             45
. =      .~~~~~~~~~~~-       -     -~~~~~~~~~~         =~~~~



ANNEX II
_ 55 -                                                  Page 3 of 3
THAILAND
DISrRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
PEA's Past Fnandal Perfornmance
Balanee Shed
(Baht million)
ACTUAL
Years Ending September 30
1989         1990         1991         1992          1993
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                                         50,547        58,241     67,379         80,396        87,356
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                          (17,531)      (21,375)   (25.669)       (30.650)      (33,797)
Net Operating Plant                                      33,016        36,866     41,710         49,746        53,559
Work in Progress                                          2.602         3,390      4,110          2,973         2,616
Total Fixed Assets                                    35,618        40,256     45,820         52,719        56,175
Current Assets
Cash                                                      3,888         5,659      7,150         11,792        13,223
Receivables                                               2,209         2,440      2,534          2,980         4,665
Inventories                                               4,157         6,000      6,804          7,028         9,365
Other                                                       384          548         688           898          1,348
Total Current Assets                                  10,638        14,647     17,176         22,698        28,601
Other Assets                                                607          1,214      1,911          1,421          922
Defered Foreign Exchange                                   4,465        4,545       4,330         5,196          5,699
TOTAL ASSETS                                          51,328        60,662     69,237         82,034        91,397
EOUITY AND LIABILXTIES
Paid-in Capital                                           1,657         2,369      2,961          3,831         4,010
Retained Earings                                          4,818         7,197      11,001        16,038        22,443
Grants and Consumer Contibutions                          7,411         8,750      10,811        13,119        14,414
Revaluation Surplus                                       6,963         8,891      10,844        12,773        12,217
Total Equity                                         20,849        27,207     35,617        45,761         53,084
Lona-Term Debt
Long-term Debt                                           22,647        23,057     23,168         23,581        24,442
Less: Curnt Maturities                                    1,378         1,443      2,683          1,852         1,217
Long-erm Debt (Net)                                  21,269       21,614      20,485        21,729         23.225
Customer Deposits                                          2,227        2,550       2,893          3,238         3,594
Odher Liabilis                                               72            16         20            219            37
Curret Liabfities
Accounts Payable                                          2,038         2,688      2,085          3,720         3,052
Current Maturities                                        1,378         1,443      2,683          1,852         1,217
Other                                                     3,495         5,144      5,454          5,515         7,188
Total Current Liabilties                                6,911         9,275      10,222        11,087         11,457
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABLITIES                               51,328        60,662     69,237         82,034        91,397
DEBT AS % OF TOTAL CAITALIZATION                             52            46          39            34             32
LNG-TERM DEBT AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                   51            44          37            32             30
CURRENT RATIO                                                1.5           1.6        1.7           2.1            2.5



ANNEX 12
-56-                              Page I of5
THAII.AND
DISTIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
PEA's Finnca Projections
Revenues
1.         The average price of electricity is about B 1.68 per kWh sold in 1993 and is expected to
remain at about that level throughout the projection period. This constant tariff assumes that the EGAT
tariff to PEA remains constant through the period. Further tariff increases by EGAT to PEA would
require commensurate increases in the PEA retail tariff. The EGAT price is, of course, dependent on
the cost of oil. Increases in the price of fuel (as well as increases in foreign exchange costs, taxes, and
demand side management costs) would be iacorporated into an automatic fuel adjustment clause and the
tariffs would be raised (or lowered) accordingly.
2.         Energy sales are expected to grow on average 9% per year through 2001, based on
projections made by the Load Forecast Subcommittee. These projections include near-term electricity
sales increases which already have been contracted in industrial estates, and over the longer term are
basically extrapolations of recent trends checked against econometric models involving assumptions on
the growth of the gross domestic product.
3.         Other Operatmg Revenues include: (i) revenues from sales of electrical equipment, (ii) rent
from properties, (iii) revenues from installation, inspection and other fees, (iv) revenues from connection
fees, (v) revenues from construction for customers, and (vi) miscellaneous revenues.
4.         Power purchased from EGAT is at B 1.03/kWh in 1993 and is expected to remain at that
level throughout the projection period. Losses within the PEA system are currently about 7% and are
expected to remain at about that level.
5.         Distribution expenses are projected on the basis of unit costs and the additions in line length
and substation capacity in PEA's expansion program. Other operation and maintenance expenses,
including Geneal and Administrative expenses, are based on current levels, inflated at 5% per annum.
6.         Depreciation is based on the straight-line method on revalued fixed assets using an average
rate of 4%.
7.         The rate of remittance to the Goverment of Thailand is assumed to be 30% after 1994
through the projection period. (The net income for tax calculation purposes is based on unrevalued
depreciation.) This rate of remittance is higher than the 15% which PEA paid during the Sixth Five-Year
Development Plan period, but will be increased in order for PEA to qualify for efficient state enterprise
status, which is expected in 1994.



57 -                            ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
Equitv
8.         Equity contributions represent the Government of Thailand's funding of rural electrification
projects.
Foreign Exchange Losses
9.         Deferred foreign exchange losses represent the profits and losses from exchange rate
variations on long-term debt. The projected figures are the amount on PEA's accounts at the end of FY
1992 less than the incremental amounts which are scheduled to be written off over the remaining period
of PEA's existing loans. The amounts shown in the income statement and balance sheet reflect cutn,ncy
movements against the Baht through December 31, 1992.
Borrowings
10.        Future foreign loans have been assumed at annual interest rates varying from 2% to 9% and
for terms of up to 40 years including from 3 to 10 years of grace. Local borrowings have been assumed
at annual interest rates of 4 to 10%, and for terms of 3 to 5 years.
i1.        Accounts receivable are projected to be 39 days of revenues.
12.        Accounts payable are estimated to be 35 days of expenses.
TH-DSRP.A12



THAILAND
DlrRIBrION SYS1EM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Provici Elecry Autbority
Fnandal Projectons
hnome Stdtlvent
)nmim)
Yeas Eoding Septenber30                 1993         1994           199S          1996          1997         1998           1999         2000          2001
ENERGY SALES (GNh)                                   28,819        30.946        34,433        38,160        41.807        45,645        49,739        54,068        58.644
SALESINCREASEM(%)                                        18             8            11 1                       10             9             9             9            8
AVERAGE TARUFF (B/kWh)                                 1.62          1.68          1.68          1.68           1.68         1.68          1.69          1.70          1.70
Ebxtgy Revenue                                       46,711        52.111        57.941        64.151        70,268        76,687        84,105        91.898       99,696
Oher Operadeg Revemce                                 1,871         1,361         1,447         1,523         1,578         1,661         1.766         1,887        2.018
Tot Opetraing Revenc                           48,582        53,472        59,388        65,674        71,846        78,348        8S,871        93.785      101.714
Opeoatnet Expenus 
Purchased Power                                     29.908        35,225         39,133        43,284        47,386        51,686        56,262        61,088       66,169   en
Fuel and 0I                                             30            32            37            43            48            54            62            70           79   oo
Opefating am maepntice                               6,692          7,382         7,838         8,465         9,074         9,674        10,335        11,048       11.819
Derwciation                                          3,994         4,810          5,83S         6.924         7,976         9,129        10.400        11.733       13,148
Remiuoace to Go"r nent                                1,670        2,962          2,677         2,910         2,903         2,973         3.148         3.424        3,830
Total Operating Expenes                        42,294        50.411        55.520        61,626        67,387        73.516        80,207        87.363       95.045
Ope_ing Incom                                         6.288         3.061         3.868         4,048         4,459         4,832         5.664         6,422        6,669
Non4Operating Income                                  1,564         2,029         2,183         2,239         2,333         2,444         2.528         2.611        2.673
Non-OPeratn Exe                                __
lIerest caged to Opeatons                              961          1,020         1,270         1,849         2,318         2,564         3,101         3,494        3.678
Forcign Exchange Loss                                  385           485           252           451           446           459           460           286          203
Ot)r                                                   225           140           144           147            150          154            157          161           164
Total Non.Operadng Expenes                      1,571         1,645         1,666         2,447         2,914         3,177         3,718         3,941        4.045
Net Income                                            6,281         3,445         4,385         3,840         3,878         4,099         4,474         5.092        5,297
AVERAGE RATE BASE                                    37,864        49,311        63,798        80,074        95,752        111,554       129,041       147,118      165,159
RATE OF RETURN                                         16.6           6.2           6.1           5.1           4.7           4.3           4.4           4.4          4.0
OPERATING RATIO                                          87            94            93            94            94            94            93            9393
TANcOW.A



Funds Flow Statemie
(Babt maitn
Yeats Ending September 30              1993        1994         1995        t996         1997        1998         1999        2000        2001
SOURCES OF FUNDS
low DnLufl
Opetng and Oiher Income                             7.242       4.465        5.655       5,689       6,.96        6.663       7.575        8.586        8,975
Add: Depreciatiot                                  3,994        4,810       5.835        6.924       7,976       9.129       10.400      11,733       13,148
Otier Noncash Items (Net)                          (250)        (383)       (482)        (625)       (703)        (771)       (822)        (895)       (902)
Total Internal Soutrces                         10.986       8,892       11,008      11.988       13.469      15,021       17.153      19,424       21.221
Cusnmer Deposits                                      356         369          374         422          456         518          587         668          758
GovernmentContnbutions                                179         510          411         400          101           0           0            0            0
Grnts and Consumer Contributions                    2.213        2.424       2.444        2,341       3,200        2.046       1.883        1.676        1.576
Bonowings                                           1,137        3.972       9,337       10,120      10.446        9.290      14.340       13.780       10.280
Change in Other Asset, Liabilities (Net)            1.128        (251)         744         (75)        (81)         (87)       (104)         530          (20)
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                          15,999      15,916       24,318      25,196      27,591       26.788       33.859      36.078       33.815
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Invesuent                                   8.089       18.105      21.161       22,185      20.722       22.612      24.473       24.627      25.528
Debt Service
Iterest                                              961        1,020        1.270       1,849        2,318       2.564        3.101       3.494        3.678
Principal                                           1.852       1.155        2,422       1.232        5,123       1,368        5.738       7.006        3.048
Total Debt Service                               2.813       2.175        3,692       3,081       7.441        3.932       8.839       10.500        6,726
Increase in Noncash Wotking Capital                 3.666         (98)         611        (480)        (993)       (194)         115         524         1.024
Increase in Cash                                   (1,431)      (4,266)     (1,146)        410          421         438          432         427          537
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital           5,097      (4,364)       (535)        (70)        (572)         244         547         951         1.56!
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                      15,999       15.916      24,318      25.196       27,591      26,788       33,859      36.078       33.815
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                 3.9          4.1         3.0          3.9         3.7          3.8         1.9          1.9         3.2
3 YEARS AVERAGE INVESTMENT                          9,970       17.548      20,484       21,356      21.840       22.602      23,904       24,876      25.718
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (3 YRS..AVE.X%)                   45          39           33          44           32          50           34          34           52
TASTO.M2
la D
sDiti
J2 X-
O '



Balance Sbeet
(Debt million)
Years Ending September 30             1993          1994         1995         1996          1997         1998         1999          2000         2001
ASSETS
Fixted Ast
Plant in Service                                  87,356       113.766      138.729       165.368      192.452      221,986      254.411       288,313      324.215
Less: Accumlated Depreciation                    (33.797)     (41,073)      (47,830)     (55,77S)     (65,090)      (75,928)     (8B.463)     (102.820)    (119.147)
Net Operating Plant                               53,S59       72,693        90,899       109,593      127.361      146.058       165,948      185,493     205.068
Work in Progress                                   2.616        7.242         7,406        7.765         7,2S3        7,236        7.342         7,388       7.658
Total Fixed Assets                            56,175       79,935        98,305      117,358       134,614      153,294      173,290      192,881      212.726
Current Assets
Cash                                              13.223        5,183         4.037        4.447         4.868        5.306        5,738         6.165       6.702
Receivables                                        4,665        5,9S8         6,624        7,334         8,034        8,768        9.581        10,438       11,244
Inventories                                        9,365        7,257         8,093        8,567         8,581        9,078        9,441         9,576       9,973
Other                                              1,348          973         1,012        1,052         1,094        1,137         1,183        1.231        1,280
Total Cumnt Assets                            28,601       19,371        19,766       21,400       22,577        24,289       25.943       27.410       29,199
Other Assets                                         922         1,397          653          729           811          902         I,00!          474         495
Deferred Foreign Exchange                          5,699         4,364        3,983         3.657        3,331         3,004        2,675        2,372        2.061
TOTAL ASSETS                                  91,397      105,067       122,707      143.144       161,333      181,489      202,909       223,137     244,481    t
EOUITY AND LIABILTES
E4uitv
Paid-in Capital                                    4,010        4,754         5,165        5,565         5.666        5.666        5.666         5.666       5.666
Retaind Earnings                                  22,443       25,543        29,928       33,768        37,646       41,745       46,219        51.310      56,607
Grants and Consurner Contribution                 14,414       17,501        19,740       21,875        24.873       26,766       28.516        30,079      31.588
Revaluation Surplus                               12.217        16.205       18,589       21,638        25.323       29.577       34.478        40.091      46.411
Total Equity                                  53.084       64.003        73.423       82,846       93.507       103.754      114.879       127,147     140.272
Tern Debt
Long-term Debt                                    24,442       27,177        34,092       42,980        48,302       56,224       64.825        71.600      78.832
Less: Current Manmties                             1,217        2,422         1,232        5,123         1,368        5,738        7.006         3,048       5,123
Long-term Debt (Net)                          23,225       24,755        32,860       37,857       46,934        50,486       57,819       68.552       73.709
Consumer Deposits                                   3,594        3,971        4,345         4.767        5,223         5,741        6,328        6,996        7,754
Other Liabilities                                     37          220           221          221           222          223          223           224         225
Curremnt Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                   3,052        3,614         4,015        4,441        4,862         5,303        5,773         6.268       6,789
Current Maturities                                 1,217        2,422         1,232        5,123         1,368        5,738        7,006         3.048       5.123
Other                                              7,188        6,082         6,611        7,889         9,217       10,244        10,881       10,902       10,609  IV >
TotalCurrenttLiabilities                      11,457       12,118        11,858       17,453        15,447       21,285       23,660       20,218       22,521   9|
TOTAL EQUrrY AND LABILItIES                   91,397      105,067       122,707      143,144      .161,333      181,489      202,909       223.137     244,481
DEBTAS%OF TOTALCAPITALIZATION                         32           30            32           34            34           35           36            36          36   0 t'
LONG-TERM AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                30           28            31           31            33           33            33           35          34
CURRENT RATIO                                        2.5           1.6          1.7           1.2          1.5           1.1          1.1          1.4          1.3   u



- 61 -                                        ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJEGT
Provincial Electricity Auth3ritv
Electricity Tariffs
(Efective December t, 1391)
1. RESIDENTIAL
(Not more than 150 kWh)                              More than 355,000 kWh per 3 consecutive months:
Energy Charge:                                          At voltage of 69 KV and over
First 5 kWh    5.00 Baht                                Demand Charge:
Next 10 kWh     0.70 Baht/kWh                            Peak Period    240.00 Baht/kW
Next 10 kWh     0.90 BahtikWh                            Partial Peak Period  32.00 BahtlkW
Next 10 kWh     1.17 BahtikWh                            Off Peak Period   No demand charge
Next 65 kWh     1.58 Baht/kWh                           Energy Charge     1.03 BahtlkWh
Next SO kWh     1.68 BahtlkWh
Next 250 kWh     2.22 BahtkWh                          At voltage of 12to 24 KV:
Over 400 kWh     2.53 Baht/lWh)                         Demand Charge:
Minimum Charge 5.00 8aht/Month                          Peak Period    305.00 Baht/cW
Partial Peak Period 63.00 iahtnkW
Energy Charge:                                            Off Peak Period   No demand charge
FIrst 3S kWh   89.00 Baht                               Energy Charge      1.07 BahtlkWh
Next 115 kWh     1.14 Baht/kWh
Next 250 kWh     2.22 SahthWh                          At voltage of less than 12 W:
Over 400 kWh     2.53 Baht/kWh                          Demand Charge:
Minimum Charge 89.00 Baht/Month                         Peak Period     356.00 Baht/kW
Partial Peak Period 73.00 8ahkWN
2. SMALL GENERAL SERVICE                               Off Peak Period   No demand charge
(Max. Demand less than 30 kW)                          Energy Charge      1.10 Baht/kWh
Energy Charge:                                             4. LARGE GENERAL SERVICE
FIrst 35 kWh   94.00 BahtUkWh                           (Max. Demand 2,000 kW and over)
Next 115 kWh     1.14 BahtikWh
Next 250 kWh     2.22 8aht/kWh                         At voltage of 69 KV and over
Over 400 kWh     2.53 Baht/kWh                          Demand Charge
Minimum Charge 94.00 BahtMonth                          Peak Period     240.00 Baht/kW
Partial Peak Period 32.00 BahtAkW
3. MEDIUM GENERAL SERVICE                              Off Peak Period   No demand charge
(Max. Demand 30 to 1,999 kW)                           Energy Charge      1.03 Baht/kWh
Not more than 355,000 kWh per 3 consecutive months.     At votage of 12 to 24 KV:
Demand Charge
At voltage of 69 KV and over                              Peak Period     305.00 Baht/kW
Demand Charge    18.00 Bahl/kW                           Partial Peak Period  63.00 BahtlkW
Energy Charge    1.03 Baht/kWh                           Off Peak Period   No demand charge
Energy Charge      1.07 BahVkWh
At voltage of 12 to 24 KV:
Demand Charge    210.00 Baht/kW                           S. HOTELS
Energy Charge    1.07 BahtAWh                           (Max. Demand 30 kW and over)
At voltage of less than 12 KV:                          Normal Rate:
Demand Charge   237.00 BahtbIH                         At voltage of 69 KV and over:
Energy Charge    1.10 Baht/kWh                          Demand Charge    236.00 BahUkW
Energy Charge    1.03 BahtMkh



- 62 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 02
At voltage of 12 to 24KV:                             6. GOVERNMENT INSTMMONS AND NON-PROFIT
Demand Charoe   274.00 BahVkW                         ORGANIZATIONS
Energy Charge    1.07 BahtkWh
At voltaoe of 69KV and Over
At voltage of less than 12 KV:                         First 10,000 kWh 14,800.00 Baht
Demand Charge   296.00 BahtUkW                        Over 10,000 kWh    1.48 BahtKWh
Energy Char     1.10 BahlkWh
At votage of 12 to 24 KV
Optional Rate:                                         First 300 kWh    496.00 8aht
more than 355,000 kWh per 3 consecutive months        Over 300 kWh     1.65 BahUtWh
Al volta  of 69 KY and over:                          At voltage of less than 12 KY
Demand Charge:                                        First 10 kWh   18&70 Baht
Peak Period   240.00 BahtkW                          Over 10 kWh      1.87 BahUlcWm
Partlal Peak Period 32.00 Baht/kW
Off Peak Period No demand charge                    Minimum Charge:
Energy Charge    1.03 BahtlkWh                        69 KV and over  14,800.00 BahtiNontU
12 to 24KV    495.00 BahtiMonth
At voltage of 12 to 24 W:                              less than 12KV 1W 70 BahtMonth
Demand Chargee
Peak Period   305.00 BahtUkW                            7. AGRiCULTURAL PUMPING
Partial Peak Period 63.00 BahtkW
oltPeakPenod  Nodemandcharge                         First 100 kWh    117.00Baht
Enerwgy Charg   1.07 Baht/kWh                         Over 100 kWh     1.17 Baht/kWh
Minimum Charge   117.00 BahtlAonth
At voltage of less than 12 KV
Denand Charge:                                           FUEL ADJUSTMENT CLAUSE
Peak Period   356.00 BahtkW
Partial Peak Period 73.00 8aht/kW                    Should there be any change In expenses c'her than
Off Peak Period No demand charge                    those controlled by the utility (such as the fuel cost),
Energy Charge    1.10 BahtVh                         and such change sha be at iat 2 stangs per unit,
adJustment will be made to Increase or decrease the
eectricIty charge and customers will be notlfled by
means of their MEA bill.



THLAND
Druion system Reinfrcemt Project
Calcultion of domic Intrn  Rae of Return for Condated Projects
trmuanrton Prjd                                                                          Villag E   fe_aff  Prolect
Yer Max Demd    wegy    t    kmey S           wat  Operatan   WTP   WTP Pe   Not             MatDoe   Eneg         LF   IBw        bwk t  Operrs WP Re Eco Gmn  NHt
MW         Wh b    %   amb           me    wn Coat  5          M       On"t           MW        a1t       %    aftb        M       bn Cot   MO        Ms    Bent
1004      lo8     7608   47%         8       8300      040      1.88   11es 6   -074           8.041    t2.0s4    18%        13      100        10     24      30      -104
1006      tsa2      8203   48%      1320      600    1962      2.00   268M    -5314           1.0972    35.876    24%        36      261       BS      71      84      -242
19S0      2145      0o36   48%      20e4      0oo0     3051     2.18   4404    -4867           23.908    56.019    27%        s6      665        83    122    116       -610
1007      2308      07u    48%      2816      S775    4163       .3S   6642    -a2s6           30.617    75.230    28%        76    1162        1l1    177    1sO    -1006
1990      2474    10580   49%       360       3000    S333      2.56   0190        863         31.aoe    s606e     3t1%       87                129    222    162         93
1t00     260M    11416   40%        4442      3000    e66s      2.75  12210       2e61         32.715    03.100    33%        93                138    26e    167        110
2000      2830    12287    60%      4442              e656       2.75  12210      5661         383028    00.681    34%       100                147    274    173        127
2001      3018    13203   60%       4442              e6ss       2.78  12C10      5661         85.466   106.808    34%       106                157    22    178         135
2002      3210    141U2   50%       4442               6568      2.75  12219      66S6         36.862   112.00     36%       113                167    311    183        144
2008      8423    16166   61%       4442               6568      2.75  1t22t     6e66t         3.421   110.764    36%        120                177    320    1se        162
2004      3626    16170    61%      4442               6668      2.75  1221t      o666         39.624   126.460    36%       12e                187    348    102        161
2005      3836    17206   51%       4442               6668      2.75  12219      6s61         40.771   133.103    37%       133                107    366    196        16e
2006      4049    18277   62%       4442               a6B       2.76  12219      6661         41.743   138.581    38%       140                206    384    100        178
2007      4267    10381    62%      4442               es66      2.75  12219      5661         42.83   145.043    30%        146                216    401    202        186
2008      4489    20515   62%       4442               6668      2.76  12210      8661         4a8.62   1t2.263    40%       162                226    419    205        194
2009      4714    21676    52s      4442               6s8       2.75  12219      S681         44.741   168.623    40%       160                234    436    210        202
2010      4036    22858   53%       4442               6568      2.76  12210      ses1         45.541   164.8a3     41%      16s                244    458    213        210      Oh
IRR        18%                                                                IRR                 0%
Ceedated Proect
Yea  Max De      Enr        LF  Ikrw Engy    ne    Operatne           In Rev    Not            Aupstions for e¢enomi antys  (NB WTP u WflUpa To Pa)
MW          Gn4h      %       bNMh Ms           c Coat            MS    Benefit               IA Aage taiff @                   1.J8 BIkWh (exc WTP)
2 Proce EBatty (-"s)              0.6 Used to calculate WP
1904      1837      7821    47%      640      3400      060             1190    -3170               3 Energyodd In 1993              6072 GWhdoif"dby SuBban
1006      1000      832B    48%      1385     6261    20                2710    -s56E               4 EGAT LFMC EnergyCharge         1.44 BIICh
1906      2168      9092   48%      2120      6S66    3134              4616   -4173                   O&M expene                      8 3% Prchaee Pwer Coat
1007      2337      0864    489     28s1      6037    4274              6810    -4392               6 AddIonaI 22kVILVhnest         16000 Mubmt         781 6cW for T&D
100       2600    1066*    49%    38s4        3000    8462              0418       0s6
1909     2681    11608    49%       436       3000    6706             12475      2770
2000      2064    12387   48%        4542         0    6716            12408      5778
2001      3054    13310    60%      4649          0    6726            12s61     6578                 CnsokwteProe
2002      3283   14275   60%        4565          0    6736            12620      5705
2003      3461     18280   50%      4862         0    6748             126458     6808                Intenal Rate of Retumn         IPA
2004      a366     16206   51%      4860         0    6755             1266       56812
2005      8875    17309  51%        4676         0    674              12588      520                 Base Case:                      17%
2006      4000    18417   51%       4682         0    6774             12608      6820
2007      4310    10627   62%       4588         0    6788             1262o      5s87                8EnuIt"Mty
2008      4532    20667   52%       4805         0    670              12637    S645                  Capital. OAM mmre      10%      12%
2000      4758    21835   52%       4601         0    6802             12655      6853                Ewney Sale decer       10%      12%
2010      4ss1    2a023   53%       4eor         o      sell           t2en       6sstJ



- 64 -                             ANNEX 1S
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFO)RCEDENT PROJECT
rovhda Elbecty Au&db
I3 of Do _net in Projd ISb
A.         PEA - Generad
A.1.   PEA's Investment Progrm.
A.2     Brief Summary of PEA's Power System Developmen Plan Under the Seventh
National Economic & Social Development Plan (1992-1996).
B.         Fcial Rer
B.1     PEA's Annual Report FY1991
B.2     PEA's Annual Report PY1992
B.3     PEA Statistical Review 1992
C.               Rer
C.1     Village Electificadon Project Phase IV, Vols. I & H.
C.2     Development of Trasmission Systems and Substations in V-shaped Area, Second
Stage (1991-1996) - Black and Veatch Intnationl, October 1991.
C.3     Development of PEA's Transmission and Distribution System and Strengthening
of PEA's Organizational Structure:
Part I - Final Report
Part U - Report on Institutional Study
Part m - Trasmission and Distribution System Management (TDSM)
Master Plan - Beca Worley Internatonal, February 1993.
C.4    Initidal Environmental Examinadon ReporL
lt4JU.M4



DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Provincial Electricity Authority Organization Chart
BO8ARD OF DIRECTORS |
GOVERNOR 
|"r OFCOFTHE INSPECTORS||                                                                                          I
EJSPCTO FOR  INSPrECTOA O    4PC FO FOR   ISPECTOR FOR  SSETRFRps                               E$4OE      CNTUIO           PRTOS       EOOES&        CROAEAIA
REGION I     REIF4 2       REGIOS        REGION4 A      DUSTRAENANC                                                                        FINANCE      SERVICES &OACRtVITIE
A}rOFC                                                                                       rTHE GOVERNOR
OEPUEY GOVERNOR           DEPUTYE GOVERNOR           DEPTUCTY0 GOVER!tOR     DEPUTY GOVER5!    t     OET GRN                    DEPT GOEI                  DttEPUT11Y( 3G...|NESNt
PLA00ONG DE  7;y;b;l2tm    ENGINEERING ISERVICE DEPT   CONSTRUC    MANCE             ELECTRIC         EPESONNEL                                                          ACTE SNT
. ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    .U
SEU.gcP  AmI       O ERCT Di       II i         EPer        DSIEPTI                             BUDGET DEPT    FiANiCE OEPr   tEVE 8I                                 OTION a
INFORMATION   .<:DEPT                                                A9VNISTRAt PROTDETI  P RECC
t C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RG IF                                                     IIAFRS DEPT
M           K EE~~Dvb~IKK ISoo                                      O E Cow I ELCRCIO
CENTRE                                   Oft                 v                      AWNElTRAIO
S.v..D.  G.sqi 0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fIIO 
r7raf-em- P-Lim   "I*" I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~EWST



-66 -                                                                                        CILART 2.1
U~ ~~~~~~~~ .........  ........................  .........  ...........  ....I-........  ..................                                                                    ..........................
0~~~
2 . ! I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . . . . . . . ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.                   .  .............. .. .........-        ...............         .         ....
.....   ...                                                                   ....                 .     .    ..............   .............                .
2 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.....   ........   . .                               .....        .         ...... .           .....0     .........
C             -
*  U.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .
-1  I.J4                                                                                      I*  11a
co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
------------- . . .... ........
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .......
....~ ~        ~ .  .........
EC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tC
( 0~~~~~~~~~~~                  -~~~~..  .                                           .  ..      ........
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
CD                                                   a~~~a



67 -                                                                                                                                                  CHART21
......... ....-  .......                                                                    ........I........................................................... ............... ..... .............I.......... .......... ........... ..........
-------------------------------- ------- -- ---- ------- - - --------------------------- -- ------ ---------- ------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------- -- ---------- -
......... ............ ........ .................................... .. ....... ..................*............... . . ......... .. ........ . ......... ................................... .....
co[.: . .....  ........... ................ ........                                   .............. ..   ... ................... .........................................  ............................                                           ............
..       ......... ..... ... .....................I....... . ...                          . ........                                    .......... ..... .....                  ....... ................................... .....................   ........                          ...
............. -.1 .......... ............................................... .......................... ................... ............ ........... ............. ....
.............. .....
.......................                                                 ..............................I..............                                                                                                           ...................
0
................................................ . . ...................................... ..................-............................ ... ................. . . ....
..................................................................... ......................................... ............ .......... ......................................... ......... ....
.... . ....................                                                           ...........                .........................                 ........... ...........                          ........................... .................... ...   ........
ch .:7          ......................I........... . .................................................................. ............. ........ -.- ............ ........... ............................ ......                                                                 ....    ...... ..    .....
....... .  ....... .                                                                                                                   .. . ................................. . ....... .... . . . ...... . .........                        .    .........  .........  ....
. ...... . ..
------ - - --- - --
... . ..................... ........ . ......... . ......................................... . . ........ -.- . ....... ... ...... . ..... . ............ ----------- - ------- - - - ------------------ --------- ....
-----------                                                                                                       -        -- - -----    ......                         ....        ...... . . ..
...............................                    ...........................              ......         ...... . . ........           ......    .................   ...................                   .....................................
---------------- -  -------    --------------- ------------                      .......    ....... . ..........                             .. ............    ...............                                      ....... .... . . . ...........    .........    .....
...... ....................................                 . ................. . ........            .......           ...... . .....                ...         .... ..............   ...................           ............................................  .........
.C                                                  ........................                                                                   ........    .... .. . ........ .    .........             ..................                                                       .    . ............. . ........ -......   .....
................. . . . . . ....... . .            ................ .......                                            ......                                                                                                                                           ... . ....  ....
01%  .....  ......... . .............. ..........                                                                                                                                               .........   ...... .         ............. ..........................
h
.        ........  .... ...    ..... .              ...... ..........                       ........    ........   .........   ........             ..........                                          ....    .........   ....
Al                                                  LL...... .............. . . . ...                       ........       .. .  ...    .....                       ................0 .    .....                .......    .....           .........  .... jm          .................................. . .........   ........    ....
E                                                         ........ . ..... . .......          ........  .....                          .........  ... . .....I. .......... . . ....  ....... .                .....Q        ........   ..... ia                                        .  ......        .... . ...........   .. .....            ....       COU
0 0 C                                              z
va 0
1                                                                            -    --.                                      -                                          .  .  .........  .........           -  .....   .........  ....... .              ......
---------- -                                      .......       --------   .........  ---------  ....................   .........   .. . .....    ........   ....                                      .        ......................          ........ .
.........  ...                            .........  . .......                                                                 ........                                          ... . .. .  ......                                  .. . ....
LU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......... . . . ..                      ........ ...
go                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..... . ......   ......... . ....
E                                                 ........ . .....                                                                                      .    .................                    .  .....                         ......        .......        .....................    . .....................-............
...................               ...    ....  ........                 .    .........    ...... ..    ...............              .........   .1 .......                    .... ro  .          .....    ........... ....I...                ...........................
LL                                                                                                                                                        ------ .    .......                                                                                                                                       r
C                                                ..... ........ ..                                                                                                                                                          ....             ..........              ..... . ... .  .........                     ................ ...... ..                Q.- W
.... . . ...... .........u   ....... . ......                                                                                                                                                     mmm
....... .  .........               .......... .  .... ..............                                                                                      ........... .............. ..... . ............................  ......... . . ........................
...... ... ............                                                                      .    ... . ........       --------------------------                 ................... . ....................... .  ......... ....  ..........................                                              CL
<
..Z;  . ............ . ............ . ........... . ....... . .. . .......................... . ........................... .  .................. . ... . ............................. . ............  ... . . . .......
..... ............                              .  .......... .           ............................. . ...            ........... .. . .. . . . ...........                  ....................                    ... . .... . .... . ...   ......                  .....................
01%
........ . ... . ........... . .................... ................. . . . ........... ............... ....... ........... ................ . ...... .................... . .......... .............. I., ..................
...................... . ............................... . ...... .......... ... . ...................... . .... ........... . .................................................. ...... ....... . ..... ................
Fo-
CL
CL
ID
4u
0012
7;6
C    cx   C
z   0
s                                                       E  m    0
:3                                                   IL                                                                    CL    x                     co                                                                    co
-0                                                                 4    ui  C6                                                            ci   0)
E



IBRD 25072
THAILAND
D J   IS ITION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
PEA SERVICE AREAS
0                                  0   0    00050   200  2     50  300
8         AREA 1                                                                         8 0 AR    KILOI
Tl!.         \             >   9f  }LAO PEOPLE'S
9 \ s E (, 3gUtQ{                                     DEMOCRATIC
PEA HEAL) O 9IREPUBLIC
, r , A h ~~~~~~~~~~~NE.2 
\'\   /  AR 0   A  E.3   OFRIES
-   AREA 8               AREA NNEE3
C,   i  R Au~ot~VI AM                                                1
10~                             M EA C.3  2     nB ODIA
W                                                                    f~~~o
AOE RBOUNDAM
bydma TheJ    uf                                   <                        r
Seenal us of Thalan Wab flan
undiu1n a1 accpac a 
/  - CREGBOUND                  s      VIEwAO        1
p                ~~~              ~       ~~PROa O   .ND  r 
REIS 2SY
sl A                              >    Wwkk G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
This imp hws bownd   <    , \21t$ w/
by The Wbrld      f   \-               
&u fX,Ihi )^
,. ot°^amtoA           \          .\\<I .
OCTO 19.3



MYANMAR                                                                                                          MYANMAR    £   %4 g>
r-PS OOR      'fi </                         LAO PEOPLE'S
7"             M         Y        W         N        C        JtthL Jt-,  DEMOLCRATIC REPUBLIC                      THALAND
CAO NGMI0                  M MOM
3 t     j                IL 2 X 300 MW  /   *                         .
3 X075 MW |MAN\XJM
MALAYSIA
to.         I                _~~~~~~~~~~Ph   L " 1
-,                                   Ro            00~~~~9   4  ,  .500;  Nh
t                    g'Thooo                           0         *.*                              x          IAMPhNDONESGA  9WAPORI
\_     \\ \ ~~Stkmft*,5    U\ 1otdu                                 STo  NAM PUNG6                             rz   rtnnea
kNeltSot~LA  8ICI                                      AA'                                                         -.W-   l 41dl>
NoooOooteoS,.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~**0  ~~~~~  '  N.  
RHUMIROLnt _ /               X9Dooo          UDONTHANI 40 '-t Koen.i.; K~ ,0 Kdt b. ..7,,  h 
_          'X                                                 Nt. b-..  ih-   na
535MW     50000    hS  i       hlonII-               "W jm                   S    Y                              f  ftMd
_>~~~~~~~o 4\ hn                                                                 Ndd rol!               Oi ohl  tootIO    TMTAo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0001o NDo o                                                        0Drbga1               >           Si0  2  00.
~~~~~~ P"o                           /t   O                     Di.   itdIto (                              onld.fo -
I % lfX~~~~~ I                                         .aA\j;--w- MNt DSRIBUTONSYSE ENOCMN
S- 3*Kkb,.,,sToo 
tPolds;t- t- m   w     t;X2 P^K°M9wG;wPN l                                A=   T.OJEC
Sea       I 0  NIo  9   Ri
/%AGION2 
is,                                                                                             -a2SINHN 5  R   SIoI
An01bwog       q50$S- Gu1-; o4ttM  2DtwM                                   36M   --W
KOA           MW                                           Ch,l,f ,+,              ,o D
a°~~~~~~~~~XO MW1                                                                     P.I& chiSOEI
THAILAND
\   Ronriojy  ~           ~              '5' DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT
tCr MPWK                                          PROJECT
stoat. (4-o'n~~  ,                 11 5kV SUBTRANSMiSSION DEVELOPMENT
UNDER     FUTURE
Andamon          t\L ¶3EACIIAN    *P$24I                                     p oY           EUSTI   CCOt PRUCTAON  PROJECT 
Sea                k      t*NO    ~             s..s~, ~~~-.422Rioooi,KIo.oo ~2O6?MW   _____ $-"                                50 kV Tsintio. Lin
230 t Trsois  Lions
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----I Is LV Tromission Li."
Sea   6                                                              0                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 kY Sul.olsnti
A                               2=0kV Substoons
PCWt Kk.                                       0                   e ~~~~~~~*11 5 kVY Ssxtotioal
IL        g.Throtw Pose Plants
o                          ~~~~~~~~~~Hydra Paws Ploats
*                           R~~~~~~~~~~~egional ConRio! Cooler
Gulf of Thailand                                              R--Iegion Boondons
at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~keaiw tou'kie
to,~~~~S, o
N "  E G 1 0 m " \                                              R' g j '  ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~I  a n d  s ioP h
W 'Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai WI
lo-SA-A                                            BAGO NORt TSkh.OHOI
HAT 0*                                                                           SOUTH BANGKOKKTHNBUR
35 15MW                                                                        11. s24MWxETRPOLTANARE
'w            ~~MALAYSIA



