Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19798
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3798-TH)
October 18, 1999
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$ 1.0 - B 36.25
B 1.0 - US$ 0.0276
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
cct-km        -      circuit-kilometer
kV            -      kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA           -      kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA           -      megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW            -      kilowatt (1,000 watts)
km            -     kilometer
MW            -     megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh           -      kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
GWh           -      gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EGAT          -     Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EIRR          -      Economic Intemal Rate of Return
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IDC           -      Interest During Construction
KfW                  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, Germany
MEA           -      Metropolitan Electricity Authority
ODA(UK)       -      Overseas Development Agency, United Kingdom
PEA           -      Provincial Electricity Authority
ROR           -      Rate of Return
SFR           -      Self-Financing Ratio
Regional Vice President:              Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:                     Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTF
Sector Director:                      Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager:                         Darayes Mehta, EASEG



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ...............i
Evaluation Summary ...............i
Part I     Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                       .3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                      .7
D. Project Sustainability                             .9
E. Bank Performance .10
F.    Borrower Performance. . 
G.  Summary Assessment of Outcome .12
H. Future Operations .12
I. Key Lessons Learned .13
Part H     Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3:  Project Timetable .19
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements .19
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation .21
Table 7:    Studies included in the Project .22
Table 8A: Project Costs .23
Table 8B:  Project Financing .23
Table 9:      Economic Costs & Benefits (EIRR) ...................................  24
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .25
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .26
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .26
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .27
Annexes
Annex A.  Mission's Aide Memoire ..................................................  29
Annex B.  Borrower's Evaluation Report .................................................  36
Annex C.  Ex-post Calculation of Economic Intemal Rate of Return ........................... 41
Annex D.  PEA's Key Financial Indicators .................................................  44
Maps:       IBRD No. 25072 and IBRD No. 25073
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on]y in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3798-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Distribution System
Reinforcement Project in Thailand, for which Loan No. 3798-TH, in the amount of
US$50 million equivalent was approved on September 22, 1994 and made effective on
January 20, 1995. Cofinancing of the Project was provided by KfW in the amount of
US$29.4 million equivalent as well as by ODA (UK) in the amount of US$10.9 million
equivalent.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1999 as originally scheduled. The last
disbursement took place on August 16, 1999 with the undisbursed balance of US$0.97
million canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Kurt Schenk, Senior Power Engineer, and Yuling Zhou,
Operations Officer, EASEG, and reviewed by Rebecca Sekse, Financial Analyst and
Darayes Mehta, Task Manager for the Project, and endorsed by Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector
Manager, EASEG, and Jayasankar Shivakumar, Country Director, EACTF.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in June 1999 with a Bank's ICR mission to
Thailand. It is based on material in the Project file, and on information and comrnments
provided by the Borrower and the implementing agency, the Provincial Electricity
Authority (PEA). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing
its own evaluation of the Project's execution and commenting on the draft ICR. The aide-
memoire of the ICR mission is attached as Annex A. The Borrower's own evaluation
report is attached as Annex B. KfW also provided comments on the Draft ICR, which
have been incorporated in the ICR.






i
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3798-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) is a state enterprise wholly owned by
the Kingdom of Thailand and established by the Provincial Electricity Authority Act of
1960 to consolidate the development of Thailand's electricity distribution system outside
of Bangkok metropolitan area. The Bank has been actively involved in the power sector
in Thailand since the 1960s with 26 loans for power projects of which six were made to
PEA.
2.    At the time the Project was conceived, the responsibility for the future
development of the 115kV subtransmission system was shifted from EGAT to PEA,
requiring PEA's commitment to design, operate and maintain the 115kV network. The
Project was designed to assist PEA in this endeavor by reinforcing and expanding the
115kV network in the North and North Eastern regions of Thailand. Additionally, the
Project included a village electrification component to provide the basic infrastructure
needed to accelerate economic growth in the poorer areas of Thailand. The Project also
included technical assistance to support PEA's plan for commercialization and
corporatization.
3.    Loan 3798-TH, in the amount of US$50 million equivalent, was approved by the
Bank on September 27, 1994 and made effective on January 20, 1995, to finance PEA's
Distribution System Reinforcement Project. The Project was co-financed by a KfW loan
(US$29.4 million equivalent) and an ODA (UK) loan (US$10.9 million equivalent). The
Bank loan was closed as scheduled on March 31, 1999.
Project Objectives and Description
4.    The Project objectives were: (a) to expand the provincial 115kV subtransmission
system and thereby reinforce the 22kV distribution system to meet the growth in power
demand in the provincial areas at optimum levels of losses and reliability; (b) to complete
PEA's rural electrification program by extending the existing 22kV feeder networks to
1,000 un-electrified and 10,000 partially electrified villages; (c) to assist PEA in studying
and planning its corporatization and possible regionalization and privatization; and (d) to
ensure through the monitoring of appropriate financial covenants that PEA's financial
strength remains adequate to support its growth.
5.    The Project comprised three main components: (a) construction of 19 new
115/22kV transformer and switching substations with a total capacity of about 800 MVA
in the North and North Eastern regions of Thailand, together with the construction of 19



11
associated 115kV transmission line circuits totaling a length of about 930 cct-km; (b)
construction of about 5,500 cct-km of 22/33kV lines, 8,000 cct-km of low voltage lines,
84 MVA of distribution transformers, and 220,000 consumer connections throughout
Thailand; and (c) consulting assistance for: (i) project engineering and design; (ii)
extending PEA's capabilities in computerized distribution planning and design; and (iii)
forrnulating a plan for the corporatization and possible privatization of PEA's operations.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    At loan closing, the 115kV transmission line component was only 75% completed
and scheduled to be completed in October 2001. The village electrification component
had a 99% completion rate and is expected to be completed in September 1999. The
associated substations, co-financed by KfW and ODA, were nearly completed with
completion rates of 98% and 89%, respectively, and estimated completion dates of
October and December 1999, respectively.
7.    The reasons for the delay in the timely completion of the transmission line
component were a combination of economic and project-related factors. The economic
crisis which began in mid-1997, adversely affected not only PEA's sales growth and
financial performance, but also PEA contractors who experienced severe liquidity
problems, that impaired their ability to complete their work commitments. PEA is
committed, within contractual provisions, to take over the unfinished construction work
from the contractors, should contractors' performance not improve in the near future.
The project-related factors were: (a) protracted and cumbersome procurement process; (b)
delays in obtaining construction permits from the Highway Department for transmission
lines; (c) delays in energizing completed substations due to delay in availability of supply
from EGAT's source substations; and (d) deficiencies in Project coordination.
8.    Despite substantial implementation delays of the transmission component, the
Project's physical objectives are expected to be satisfactorily met when the Project is
fully complete. The village electrification component, which comprised 50% of the loan
funds, has been very successful with physical targets set at project appraisal having been
exceeded. This component is expected to alleviate poverty in the rural areas. The
institutional objective of extending PEA's capabilities in computerized distribution
planning and design has been achieved. The sectoral objective requiring PEA to
complete a study for its corporatization has also been met. The actual implementation of
the study recommendations is covered under the Bank's following loan to PEA (Loan
4067-TH). In view of the above, the overall outcome of the Project is satisfactory.
9.    The Bank and PEA jointly prepared the Project, which was part of PEA's least
cost expansion plan, and their performance during the identification and preparation
stages was satisfactory. Performance monitoring indicators were retrofitted to the Project
in March 1997, as required by the Bank. Overall, the supervision of the Project is
satisfactory. The Project was supervised once or twice yearly in combination with
missions for other projects in keeping with the Bank's budgetary constraints. However,
the coordination between the Bank and the co-financing agencies and coordination



iii
between departments within PEA was inadequate, leading to a mismatch of construction
schedules and causing completion delays. The supervision performance ratings were
realistic and justifiable. The quarterly progress reports prepared by PEA were reasonably
comprehensive, but could have been improved by amplifying information on
implementation problems and corrective actions. The Project during appraisal did not
seem to pose any significant risks, however, as it turned out, there were adverse factors
during the implementation period, some of which could not be foreseen (para. 7).
10.   Financial performance has been satisfactory during the project implementation
period. In spite of the country's economic crisis and slowing down of electricity demand
growth, PEA continued to record satisfactory operational performance and achieve strong
earnings for FY98.  Revenues in FY98 increased considerably because of the
Government's decision to permit foreign exchange losses to be recouped from the tariff
surcharge mechanism. However, PEA's satisfactory record of compliance with the
Bank's financial covenants was reversed in FY98 due to an exceptionally high level of
Government remittance (90% of net income), far beyond the regular level of 35%. As a
result, PEA was unable to comply with the SFR covenant posting an actual SFR of 13.6%
vs. the required 25%. The Government (severely cash-strapped at this time) was in non-
compliance with the covenant under the Guarantee Agreement that required it to take all
measures necessary to ensure that PEA is in compliance with the Bank covenants.
11.   The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 12.3%, below the SAR
estimate of 17%, which could be attributed to project delays and the decrease in sales for
the period due to the economic crisis. Nevertheless, compared to the opportunity cost of
capital of 10% in the country, the 12.3% ERR indicates reasonable economic viability of
the Project.
Project Sustainability
12.   Upon completion, the Project will be part of PEA's integrated transmission and
distribution system. The 115 kV subtransmission network will be the backbone of PEA's
distribution system, and would be operated and maintained following PEA's practices
which are deemed satisfactory. The economic recovery, which has already begun, will
ensure that the facilities financed under the Project will eventually be fully utilized. The
Government's and PEA's commitments to implement the Master Plan for State
Enterprise Reform are expected to ensure sector reforms. PEA has agreed to continue to
monitor the performance indicators, prepare quarterly progress reports for the unfinished
physical work, and submit those to the Bank for review until full completion of the
Project.
13.   Project sustainability would be enhanced by the implementation of the on-going
project (Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project, Loan 4067-TH).
The objective of this succeeding project includes: (a) the restructuring of PEA, and
subsequent corporatization and privatization; (b) the establishment of a regulatory
framework in the energy sector, and (c) the improvement of PEA's efficiency and
reliability through the automation of its distribution system and strengthening of its



iv
operation capabilities. In view of the above, the outcome of the Project is expected to be
sustainable.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   The overall outcome of the Project is satisfactory. When completed, the Project is
expected to meet its development objectives, despite implementation delays.
Sustainability of physical components, which will depend largely on PEA's effective
operation and maintenance of the facilities, is high given the importance of the Project
and PEA's need to meet the industrial load in its service area efficiently. Performance of
the Bank and PEA are also satisfactory.
15.   PEA  has committed itself to a detailed action plan to implement its
corporatization and privatization within the framework of the Government's new Master
Plan for State Enterprise Reform. PEA is now well underway to becoming a more
commercialized entity. Hence, the institutional development objectives are likely to be
sustainable.
16.   As some physical components of the Project are not yet completed, the Bank will
continue to monitor PEA's operations and project performance through on-going lending
and institutional development programs and policy dialogue with the Government. PEA
will continue preparing quarterly progress reports until project completion, monitoring
key performance indicators for the Project, and reporting to the Bank any changes to the
agreed schedules.
17.   Several lessons, which have operational and strategic implications for the design
of future power sector projects, can be drawn from this Project: (a) Bank must be willing
to confront PEA's bureaucratic and cumbersome procurement process, which was the
leading cause of implementation delays. Bank's involvement with PEA over the years
was ineffective in remedying this situation, as most procurement decisions for sizable
contracts are undertaken at the PEA Board level, over which counterparts at PEA
management had little control; (b) early approval by the Highway Department of the
transmission line designs must be sought to avoid delays during project implementation;
(c) actions on land acquisition in ecologically sensitive areas should be taken early on
during project preparation stage; and (d) more proactive coordination should be
maintained between various departments of the implementing agency and among
financing institutions to avoid or minimize potential mismatch of construction schedules
of various physical activities.
18.  In conclusion, despite implementation delays, the outcome of the Project is
satisfactory and is likely to be sustainable. The 1997 economic and financial crises had
adversely affected not only project implementation, manifested by the inability of
contractors to complete scheduled work due to liquidity problems, but also PEA's
operational and financial performance.  However, it is encouraging to note that
Thailand's economic recovery is underway, which should improve the Project's prospects
for sustainability.



THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3798-TH)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    The Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) was established in September 1960
under the Provincial Electricity Act (BE-2503) as a state enterprise reporting to the
Ministry of Interior. PEA is responsible for the distribution of electricity throughout
Thailand except in the Metropolitan Bangkok area. With the introduction of the 115kV-
subtransmission voltage (supported by the previous Bank Loan 3404-TH)', a major part
of the design and construction of the sub-transmission system was transferred from
EGAT to PEA. Thus, there was a shift of responsibility from EGAT to PEA for the
future development, including operation and maintenance, of the sub-transmission
system. The Project was designed to expand the 115kV system, which would allow PEA
to optimize investments in distribution, thus minimizing cost of supply to consumers.
2.    The Project was in line with the Bank's sector strategy to support sound planning
and investment decisions. It focused on improving power system distribution efficiency,
organizational strengthening and restructuring, and rural electrification as a measure of
poverty alleviation in the backward areas of Thailand. The Project supported the
Government's strategy of stimulating industrial growth outside the capital area through
the development of infrastructure, and improving sector performance through
commercialization and corporatization of the electricity entities.
3.     Since 1960 the Bank has been supporting the three electric utilities in Thailand
(EGAT, MEA and PEA) in system planning and implementing large power system
expansion programs in generation, transmission and distribution, and in supporting
institutional development. This Project was the sixth in a series of Bank Group-financed
projects2 for PEA for which the World Bank's Board of Directors approved a US$50
million loan on September 22, 1994. The Project was expected to be implemented over
four years with a total investment of US$350 million. The loan was guaranteed by the
Kingdom of Thailand and was co-financed by KfW which provided a loan of US$29.4
million equivalent, and ODA (UK) with a loan of US$10.9 million equivalent, to finance
I   Distribution System Upgrading Project.
2   Of the 26 Bank power loans to Thailand, six were made to PEA (three for rural electrification and three for
distribution reinforcement - including this loan), two were made to MEA (Metropolitan Electricity Authority) for
improvement and reinforcement of its distribution system and the remaining 18 were made to EGAT and its
predecessor for financing expansion of electricity generation and transmission facilities. In 1998 the Bank
approved its first Partial Credit Guarantee operation for EGAT.



- 2 -
associated substation investments. The Project was declared effective on January 20,
1995 and the loan closing date was March 31, 1999.
Project Objectives
4.    As stated in the Bank's SAR, the objectives of the Distribution System
Reinforcement Project were to: (a) expand the provincial 115kV subtransmission system
and thereby reinforce the 22kV distribution system to meet the growth in power and
energy demand in the provincial areas at optimum levels of losses and reliability; (b)
complete PEA's rural electrification program by extending existing 22kV feeder
networks to 1,000 unelectrified and 10,000 partially electrified villages; (c) assist PEA in
studying and planning its corporatization and possible regionalization and privatization;
and (d) ensure through the monitoring of appropriate financial covenants that PEA's
financial strength remains adequate to support its growth.
5.    The Project was expected to: (a) promote industrial growth outside metropolitan
Bangkok; (b) allow PEA to operate more efficiently and deliver power to new areas while
enhancing the reliability of the system to acceptable levels; (c) reduce losses; and (d)
begin the process of transforming PEA from a centrally controlled government agency to
a commercialized and regionally decentralized entity that would eventually facilitate
private sector participation.
6.    The objectives were to be achieved through:
(a)  the construction of 19 new 115/22kV transformer and switching substations
with a total capacity of about 800 MVA in the North and North Eastern
regions of Thailand, together with the construction of 19 associated 115kV
transmission line circuits totaling a length of about 930 km;
(b)  the construction of about 5,500 cct-km of 22/33kV lines, 8,000 cct-km of
low voltage lines, 84 MVA of distribution transforrners, and 220,000
consumer connections throughout Thailand; and
(c)  consulting assistance for: (i) project engineering and design; (ii) extending
PEA's capabilities in computerized distribution planning and design; and
(iii) formulating a plan for the corporatization and possible privatization of
PEA's operations.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
7.    The project objectives were consistent with the Government's sector strategy as
well as the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. They were unchanged for the duration
of the Project, and overall, were realistic, clear, relevant, and important. Furthermore, the
objectives were responsive to PEA's need to reinforce its subtransmission3 system that
3   The 11 5kV subtransmission system is also referred as PEA distribution system.



- 3 -
would allow delivery of power to new areas while reducing losses and enhancing
reliability. The benefits from the achievement of these objectives were measured against
quantitative and qualitative targets, and through performance indicators, which were
retrofitted during project implementation in March 1997, as required by the Bank.
8.    The expectation that losses would be reduced and reliability improved as PEA
took over the 11 5kV system from EGAT was warranted, as EGAT was concentrating on
the higher 230/500 kV system voltage levels and relegating the responsibility for the
major part of the 11 5kV system to PEA.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Assessment
9.    Overall, the achievement of the project objectives, measured through key
performance indicators (Table 6, Part II), is satisfactory. The assessment is based on the
following:  (a) the very successful implementation of the village electrification
component (comprising 50% of the loan funds) with all physical targets set at project
appraisal having been surpassed; (b) although some physical components of the project
were not fully completed as of loan closing, PEA has committed resources to complete
the unfinished components and the likelihood of project completion by the revised
schedule (October 2001) is high. The physical objectives are expected to be met upon
full project completion;4 (c) the sectoral objective requiring PEA to complete a study for
its corporatization has also been met.  The actual implementation of the study
recommendations is covered under the Bank's following loan to PEA (Loan 4067-TH);
and (d) the institutional objective of extending PEA's capabilities in computerized
distribution planning and design has been achieved.
Review of Physical Objective
10.   At loan closing the transmission line component was only 75% completed and is
scheduled to be completed in October 2001. The village electrification component had a
99% completion rate and is expected to be completed in September 1999. Detailed
physical implementation status, as compared with the appraisal targets, is included in
Table 5 (Part II). As Bank loan disbursement ended at loan closing, PEA has committed
resources to complete the unfinished components originally financed by the Bank loan.
The respective KfW- and ODA (UK)- financed substations were 98% and 89% complete.
According to the revised schedule, the KfW- and ODA- financed components will be
completed in October and December 1999, respectively.
4  PEA had to implement the Project under adverse conditions caused by the unforeseeable economic crisis that
started in mid 1997. The crisis adversely affected PEA's demand growth and financial performance. It also
caused liquidity problems to the contractors which impaired their ability to complete construction work on
schedule.



-4 -
11.   During project implementation, PEA's energy sales have increased from 32,296
GWh in FY94 to 48,003 GWh in FY98, corresponding to an average annual growth rate
of 10.4%. However, as a result of the economic crisis which began in mid-1997, the sales
dropped to 1.8% in FY98 and was forecasted to further decrease or to experience no
growth in FY99. Nevertheless, the Project has helped in meeting the growth in demand
in the areas where the Project facilities had already been completed and energized. In
addition, recent signs of economic recovery would lead to increasing levels of demand in
the coming years and subsequently help towards full utilization of the facilities financed
under the Project.
12.   The distribution system losses were reduced to 5.9% in FY98 compared to a 7%
target and are expected to further drop to 5.8% in FY995. Similarly, system reliability, as
measured by SAIFI and SAIDI6, met the performance targets established for FY98 and is
expected to further improve in the coming years (Table 6, Part II).
13.   PEA's rural electrification program targets have been significantly surpassed.
The original scope (as defined in the SAR), consisting of extending the 22 kV feeder
networks to 1,000 un-electrified and 10,000 partially electrified villages, was actually
expanded during project implementation to encompass 1,096 unelectrified and 10,722
partially electrified villages. The SAR scope also included 5,500 cct-km of 22 or 33 kV
lines, 8,000 cct-km of LV lines, 84,000 kVA of transformer capacity, and 120,000 new
consumer connections. The expanded scope included 6,517 cct-km of 22 or 33 kV lines,
8,802 cct-km of LV lines, 103,100 kVA of transformer capacity, and 143,388 new
consumer connections. This expanded component substantially surpassed the original
scope as stated in the SAR and would help with rural development and poverty
alleviation.
Review of Institutional Objectives
14.   The objectives of strengthening the capabilities of PEA in computerized system
planning and in formulating a plan that would define its future commercialization and
corporatization have been achieved. PEA is well underway to becoming a more
commercialized entity. While the pace of actual implementation of PEA's organizational
restructuring has been slow as progress needed to be harmonized with the Government's
own reform agenda, improvements in operational efficiency have been achieved. The
accomplishments are reflected in the increase in average sales per employee (by 55%),
5   System losses have decreased from 6.3% in FY92 to 5.3 % in FY96 but increased to 5.9 in FY98. System losses
are expected to be reduced to about 5.6% by FY2002.
6   SAIFI: Average number of outages per customer per year. SAIDI: Average duration of outages in minutes per
customer per year.



- 5 -
and the corresponding increase in average sales per customer (by 19%) during the four-
year period, FY94-98.7
15.   The study to formulate a plan for the organizational restructuring of PEA was
completed in 1996 and an action plan covering the first two years of its implementation
was submitted to PEA's Board. There was, however, a delay in obtaining the Board's
approval which slowed down the implementation of the plan. Meanwhile, the economic
crisis in the middle of 1997 overtook the Board's deliberations. At the behest of the IMF
and in response to the crisis, the Government formulated a new Enterprise Sector Reform
Master Plan. The Plan provided the framework and guidelines for reform of state owned
enterprises (including PEA) to improve their efficiency by increasing private sector
participation and promoting competition. The Sector Reform Master Plan, which
included a broad Action Plan for the privatization of PEA, laid down the following
milestones with which PEA was mandated to comply: (a) establishing PEA's non-core
activities as business units by December 2000; (b) creating regional distribution units as
cost centers by the end of 2001; (c) privatizing PEA's non-core subsidiaries by early
2002; and (d) privatizing PEA's distribution companies by mid-2004. PEA is preparing a
detailed implementation plan in line with the Government's Plan and is making progress
towards achieving the above milestones. The detailed implementation plan is expected to
be available in December 1999 and PEA's progress is being monitored under the Bank's
on-going Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project (Loan 4067-TH).
The objectives of this Loan include the implementation of PEA's organizational
restructuring and subsequent corporatization and privatization.
16.   Several studies carried out during project implementation, though not financed
directly under the Project, provided an important framework for PEA's operations and
investment planning as well as for sector reform and restructuring. They include: (a)
Rationalization of PEA's Interfacing Arrangements with EGAT; (b) defining the
Regulatory Framework of the Energy Sector; and (c) Study of the Technical Aspects of
Power Transmission and Substation Development. The first two studies, financed under
Bank Loan 4067-TH, have been satisfactorily completed. The first study, financed by a
PHRD Grant (to check), was instrumental in assisting PEA in its discussion with EGAT
on the locations of terminal substations as it took over responsibility for managing the
115 kV subtransmission system from EGAT. The second study formed the basis for
effective regulation of the energy sector as prescribed in the new Sector Reform Master
Plan. The third study, (financed by a USAID grant), reviewed PEA's master plan for
transmission and substation development, which will form the basis for an integrated
transmission and substation development program.
This corresponds to average annual growth rates in the period FY94-98 of 12.0% and 4.4%, respectively. The
forecasted average growth rates in the period FY99-04 for the average sales per employee and the average sales
per customer are expected to be 7.3% and 2.8%, respectively.



- 6 -
Review of Financial Objective and Compliance with Financial Covenants
17.   The financial objective as defined in the SAR was to "ensure through the
monitoring of appropriate financial covenants that PEA's financial strength remain
adequate to support its growth". To this end, the following key financial covenants for
PEA were included in the Loan Agreement: (a) a self financing ratio (SFR) of not less
than 25% of three years average capital expenditure; (b) a rate of return (ROR) on
revalued assets of not less than 4%; (c) a long term debt to equity ratio not exceeding 1.5
times; and (d) outstanding short and medium term debt not to exceed 15% of all debt. In
addition, PEA was required to review its compliance status based on its financial forecast
each year and furnish the Bank a copy of such review. PEA was further required to
review annually with the Bank progress in carrying out its investment program in the
previous fiscal year and to update such investment program accordingly.
18.   PEA has recorded satisfactory financial performance since the inception of the
Project in 1994. Energy sales increased by an average of 13% per annum during the
period 1994 to 1997. In FY98, as the impact of the economic crisis began to be fully felt,
sales increased by only 1.9% reflecting the slowing down of demand growth in PEA's
service area from an average of over 10% during the project period to 2%. Nonetheless,
PEA continued to achieve strong earnings because of the Government's decision to
permit electric utilities to recoup foreign exchange losses from the customers through an
increase of the Energy Adjustment Charge. As a result, PEA's revenues in FY98
increased by 13.9%. PEA's positive financial outlook was premised on its ability to
generate and maintain enough funds to absorb and finance capital upgrading and
expansion. This capability is a function of sufficient electricity tariffs and adequate levels
of internally generated cash. However, while the tariff surcharge mechanism was
increased, there was no increase in the base tariff to absorb the steep depreciation of the
Baht and higher operating expenses and debt service requirements. Furthermore, the
Government's requirement that PEA remit 90% of net income, which was far beyond the
regular required level of 35%, drained PEA's resources. This combination of factors,
including the depressed energy demand placed considerable financial strain on PEA.
19.  In line with the Government's policy and in response to the economic slowdown,
PEA took certain financial austerity measures such as reducing various operating
expenses and decreasing capital investments. PEA's planned investment under the 8f
National Economic and Social Development Plan was reduced by 16%, from Baht 59.8
billion to Baht 50.1 billion. Investments for the construction of transmission lines and
substations as well as for rural electrification were reduced and/or postponed till the 9t
Five-Year Plan.  However, to achieve satisfactory financial performance and full
compliance with the financial covenants in FY99 and beyond, further Government
actions on tariff and remittance are necessary. In this connection, the Bank's supervision
mission (February 1999) prepared several scenarios together with PEA, and PEA agreed
to take up with the Government the issues of remittance and tariff adjustments.



- 7 -
20.   Except for FY98, PEA has been in compliance with all the financial covenants
during the project period. PEA was not in compliance with the SFR covenant (posting an
actual of 13.6% vs. the required 25%) due to the Government's requirement for greater-
than-regular level of remittance. Had the remittance been at the normal 35% level, the
SFR would have been 27.1%, meeting the covenanted requirement. The Government,
likewise, is in non-compliance with the covenant under the Guarantee Agreement that
requires it to take all measures necessary to ensure that PEA complies with all Bank
covenants. PEA complied with the other remaining financial covenants in FY98: the
ROR of 4.8% was higher than the covenanted 4%; the debt equity ratio of 0.6 satisfied
the maximum limit of 1.5x; and PEA continued to have no short and medium term debt
meeting the requirement of no more than 15% of total outstanding debt.
21.   Financial projections for FY99, based on the Moderate Economic Recovery
Scenario (sales growth of 1.3%), showed that PEA would satisfy the respective covenants
for ROR (4.2%) and debt equity ratio (0.7x). Government's action on the remittance
level and/or tariff adjustments would be necessary in order for PEA to fully comply with
all the financial covenants, including the SFR.
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
22.   The EIRR was recalculated using the same methodology adopted at project
appraisal. The ex-post EIRR of 12.3% is below the 17% projected at appraisal. Project
delays together with the impact of the recent economic crisis, which resulted in much
lower than expected energy demand, contributed to this shortfall. Nevertheless, the ex-
post EIRR is still at a reasonable level when compared to the 10% opportunity cost of
capital in Thailand, indicating the economic viability of the Project.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
23.   The implementation progress of the Project is satisfactory.  The village
electrification component is 99% completed, while the transmission line component is
only 75% completed. Implementation of the latter was delayed because of a combination
of economic and project-related factors. The economic crisis which began in 1997,
adversely affected not only PEA's sales growth and financial performance, but also PEA
contractors, who experienced severe liquidity problems that impaired their ability to
complete their work commitments on schedule.
24.   For the IBRD-financed component, ICB procedures, as required under the Loan
Agreement, were followed. For the substation components financed by KfW and ODA,
procurement was conducted based on the co-financiers' own guidelines.



- 8 -
25.   Two project teams8 were set up for the IBRD-financed components: one for
coordinating the transmission line implementation and the other for village electrification.
Coordination of the former was provided initially by the Construction Division; however,
this proved to be ineffective due to the lack of experience of the Construction Division in
coordinating such type of projects. Therefore, the coordination function was shifted to
the Project Acceleration Department which provided more effective coordination
although many activities performed serially could have been performed in parallel,
particularly in obtaining permits from either the Highway or the Forestry Departments.
The Village Electrification component was coordinated effectively by the Project
Planning Division.
26.   Better project implementation could have been achieved if the Bank and the
KfW/ODA supervision teams had worked in a coordinated fashion and had there been
closer coordination within PEA's project coordinating units. This would have uncovered
earlier some mismatch between the contractual completion dates for the substations with
those of the 115  kV transmission lines, and avoided delays in energization.
Project Costs and Loan Disbursement
27.   The Project's total cost (including contingencies) was estimated at appraisal to be
at US$350.2 million. Based on the actual costs incurred so far and the latest estimates for
the unfinished activities, the Project would cost $285.8 million, about 18% lower than the
appraisal estimate. Two factors contributed to this cost under-run, namely: (a) the use of
ICB procurement which led to significant cost savings from the Bank-financed sub-
transmission component; and (b) the conservative estimation of project costs at project
appraisal (especially contingency provisions).  However, it should be noted that
substantial cost overruns were incurred under the substation component financed by other
donors due to limited competition for equipment supply in accordance with donor
procurement guidelines; and increased cost for land acquisition.
28.   Out of the total loan amount of $50 million, $49.03 million (or 98.06%) has been
disbursed. The undisbursed balance of $0.97 million was cancelled automatically upon
closure of the loan account.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
29.   The economic and project-related factors which affected project implementation
are described below.
30.   Economic Crisis. The economic and financial crisis that hit the country in mid-
1997, an external and unforeseeable factor, had a considerable impact not only on the
financial performance of PEA but also on the implementation of the Project. It adversely
8  Within PEA the Governor nominates a Project Manager once financing for the project has been obtained. The
Project Manager then nominates a Project Coordinator who was responsible for the day-today management of
the Project.



- 9 -
affected PEA's sales growth and impaired the ability of PEA contractors to complete
their work due to lack of liquidity.
31.   Procurement bottlenecks. This has been a recurrent problem at PEA, which has
also affected implementation of previous Bank-financed projects. PEA management has
little control in the procurement decision-making of sizable contracts which requires an
endorsement and final approval by the PEA's Board. The delays are largely due to
protracted decisions at the Board level.
32.   Land Acquisition and Construction Permits. Project implementation delays
caused by land disputes regarding land size and compensation were another source of
delays. In addition, it was a lengthy process to obtain the right of way for transmission
lines as well as for the towers that would need to be placed outside the right of way
provided by the Highway and Forestry Departments because of some obstruction. These
delays occurred repeatedly in spite of advanced planning and actions taken by PEA in
obtaining the right of way and construction permission. While some part of the delays
was caused by relevant government agencies' bureaucratic procedures, some are
attributed to the heightened awareness by the public and increased sensitivities towards
environmental concerns in the country. In recent years, the Government has taken a more
cautious approach in reviewing and approving land related proposals, further
complicating project implementation.
33.   Delay in energizing completed substations. Another source of delay was the
non-timely connection of PEA's 115 kV subtransmission lines and completed substations
due to delay in availability of supply from EGAT's source substations.
34.   Deficient Project coordination. There was inadequate coordination not only
between the Project Teams or Coordinators assigned to coordinate these components but
also among the Bank and respective co-financier counterparts. The lack of coordination
resulted in mismatched construction schedules, which caused additional delays in Project
implementation.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.   All elements are present to contribute to sustainability of the Project. Firstly, the
physical construction of transmission lines and substations are of good quality and those
facilities that have been completed and energized have operated at high availability. The
physical facilities, when fully completed, are expected to be productive for many years
and their efficient operation and maintenance are very likely because of PEA's technical
capabilities and past record of operational excellence. Although PEA is now facing
certain financial difficulties due to the economic crisis, normal operation of the Bank-
financed physical facilities should not be greatly affected as PEA is aware of the critical
importance of these facilities to operational efficiency and attaches high priority to their
operational effectiveness.



- 10-
36.   Secondly, the impact of the worst economic crisis to hit Thailand in modem
times, would hinder the full utilization of the benefits derived from the facilities in the
immediate term, as projected energy demand growth has slowed down considerably.
However, it appears that Thailand's economic recovery is underway, which should
improve the Project's prospects for sustainability.
37.   Thirdly, with the approval of the Master Plan for State Enterprise Sector Reform
by the Government on September 1, 1998, a privatization program for state owned
enterprises has been established. This would underpin structural reformns of the various
sectors, including the energy sector. PEA is now preparing detailed action plans in line
with the Master Plan. With commitment from both the Government and PEA, the
expectation is high that the institutional restructuring of PEA initiated under the Project
would be carried out. The expectation is further assured by the on-going Bank-financed
project for PEA (Loan 4067-TH) which supports the continuation of PEA's restructuring
and subsequent corporatization and privatization, as well as the establishment of a
regulatory framework in the energy sector. It is also expected that the reforms will
enhance PEA's operational efficiency and customer services.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
38.   Overall, Bank performance during the Project period is rated satisfactory. The
identification and preparation of the Project were carried out smoothly and capitalized on
three factors: (a) the recommendations of a consultant's report on the optimum
development of the 115kV sub-transmission networks; (b) the country's continuing
economic growth in the northern region of Thailand with the expected higher energy
demand growth rates; and (c) the increasing demand for rural electrification in line with
the Govenment's poverty alleviation program.
39.   Project preparation was also satisfactory; with the Bank providing assistance to
the Borrower in both the technical and institutional aspects. Bank provided assistance to
PEA in assessing 115kV designs as well as in developing standard procedures for
subcontracting for design and construction on a turnkey basis. No fonnal appraisal
mission was fielded since the project team was able to complete the Project's appraisal
during pre-appraisal. The justification for the Project was deemed sound. It was based,
on the one hand, on a continuing increase in electricity demand in PEA's service territory
and the need to upgrade its system to deliver, power and improve its reliability in the new
areas, and on the other, on the Governments desire to increase sector efficiency through
corporatization and privatization of electric utilities.
40.   No significant risks were identified in the SAR. Potential delays during the
procurement stage were flagged but received only negligible or low risk rating.
Procurement delays, caused mainly by the bureaucratic and cumbersome process at PEA,
are a perennial problem. Land acquisition was tagged as negligible or low risk on the
basis that prior action as regards land acquisition had already been initiated by PEA. The
assumption at that time was justified as PEA and the Bank did not foresee changing



- 11 -
attitudes regarding environmental and social concerns. However, the Government and
the affected peoples presented a challenge during project implementation, which
increased land disputes and caused delays in land acquisition and obtaining construction
permits from the Highway and Forestry Departments. These agencies, fearing public
scrutiny and controversies, took a cautious approach in reviewing and approving land
related proposals.
41.   Project appraisal rightly expected no substantial adverse impact on the
environment. Placing the 115kV transmission lines on concrete poles and routed along
roads where PEA has right-of-way minimized environmental impact. In addition, the
substations associated with the Project were much smaller than transmission substations
and have low impact on land usage. Furthermnore, the flexible siting of substations made
it possible to avoid agricultural and otherwise ecologically valuable land.
42.   Overall, supervision of the Project was satisfactory. The Project was supervised
once or twice yearly in combination with missions for other projects and in keeping with
budgetary constraints. Performance monitoring indicators were retrofitted to the Project
in March 1997, as required by the Bank. The performance ratings given in the
PSR/Supervision Forn 590 were realistic and justifiable. However, the coordination
between the Bank and the co-financing agencies was deficient, leading to a mismatch of
construction schedules and causing completion delays. The Bank could have been more
proactive in providing better coordination between the Bank-financed components and
those financed by other sources.
43.   During Project implementation, the Bank successfully maintained good working
relations with PEA.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.   Overall, PEA's performance is satisfactory. During project preparation, the
Project objectives and components were developed in consultation with relevant
Government agencies. PEA, as both the borrower and implementing agency, worked
closely with the Bank during project preparation and implementation. Macroeconomic
conditions and sectoral policies were generally favorable during most part of the project
implementation period. Counterpart funds were available and reporting and auditing
requirements were satisfied. Except for the SFR covenant in FY98, all financial
covenants were complied with during the project period. Ownership was generally taken
of the technical assistance, close cooperation with the consultant team ensured
knowledge-transfer, and follow-up actions have been taken or are being taken in
connection with recommendations of the technical assistance activities.
45.   Timely Quarterly Progress Report were prepared by PEA which provided a good
assessment of implementation progress. However, the reports could have been improved
by including more information on outstanding issues and resolutions.



- 12 -
46.   However, two aspects of the borrower's performance were less than satisfactory.
First, the Project suffered from substantial delays in implementation (paras. 31-34),
which could, in part, be attributed to PEA's performance.  And second, more
coordination could have been fostered among the Project Teams for components financed
from different sources.
G.  SUMMARY ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
47.   Despite the impact of the economic slowdown and substantial implementation
delays, the outcome of the Project is satisfactory for the following reasons: (a) when fully
completed, the Project is expected to meet or exceed its physical targets defined at project
appraisal. The village electrification component has already surpassed its initial
objectives; (b) the performance indicators (including reduction in system losses and
increase of reliability) have been met; and (c) the progress made in the institutional
restructuring of PEA under the Project are likely to be continued under the on-going Bank
financed project and the benefits from the Project are likely to be sustainable.
48.   The EIRR for the project has been re-estimated'at 12.3%, indicating a reasonable
economic viability of the Bank financed project especially in view of the economic crisis
and associated drop in energy demand.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
49.   Since the construction of some facilities is not yet completed, PEA has committed
budgetary resources from its revenue to finalize them. Although PEA has agreed to a
revised schedule by which all facilities are expected to be completed and energized by
October 2001, it is expected that these could be completed sooner since the economic
recovery appears to be underway. PEA agreed to continue monitoring its performance
against the indicators defined for the Project and submit to the Bank quarterly progress
reports until completion of the entire Project. The Bank will continue to monitor PEA's
operations and performance, and compliance with covenants, through on-going lending
and institutional development programs as well as policy dialogue with Government and
PEA.
50.   PEA has a very capable O&M staff and has agreed to properly operate and
maintain the new facilities.  Comprehensive and well-documented operation and
maintenance procedures are in place to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the
new facilities.
51.   PEA is committed to the sector reform and Action Plan for commercialization and
privatization, which has been approved by Government under the new Master Plan for
State Enterprise Sector Reform. The restructuring program is also being supported under
a subsequent Bank loan (Loan 4067-TH).



- 13 -
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
52.   Key lessons, which have operational and strategic implications for the design of
future power sector projects are briefly discussed below.
53.   PEA's bureaucratic and cumbersome procurement process resulted in a lengthy
procurement cycle.  The Bank must be willing to confront PEA's convoluted
procurement procedures, which were the cause of major implementation delays. Bank's
involvement with PEA over the years was ineffective in remedying the situation, as most
procurement decisions for sizable contracts are undertaken at the Board level, over which
counterparts at PEA management had little control.
54.   Early approval by the Highway Department of the transmission lines design must
be sought to avoid bureaucratic delays during implementation. Similarly, to ensure
smooth project implementation, land acquisition should be completed before the start of
project implementation, or at the very least, a realistic and concrete time-bound action
plan should be developed and followed through with close monitoring by the Bank and
the implementing agency.
55.   The Bank should be more proactive in enforcing coordination among the Project
Teams and Project co-financiers. With better coordination in place, some mismatch in
the construction schedules for the transmission lines and associated substations could be
avoided.



- 14 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3798-TH)
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 15 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicabl
~~~~~~(73                    (V)               (-1)
Macro Policies                                                       El
Sector Policies                    E                E                El
Financial Objectives                                El a                               El
institutional Development           U               E3                                 El
Physical Objectives                                 El -                               El
Poverty Reduction                                   El               E                 L0
Gender Issues                      El               El               El
Other Social Objectives             j                                E3
Enviromnental Objectives           El                                El                I]
Public Sector Management           El                                LI                [I
Private Sector Development         E                IA               E                 E
Other (specify)                    []               El
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V)                     (/)                        (1)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory            Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (V)                        (1)
Identification                    E                        E3                         E
Preparation Assistance             D                       i:                         E
Appraisal                          El                      IA                         E1
Supervision                       E                        IA                         E
Highly
D. Borrower Perfonnance            satisfactoy              Satfactory                 Deficient
(V)                      (/)                       (1)
Preparation                         l                      [                          El
Implementation - Physical          El                      E                          IA
- Institutional      E                        IA                          
Covenant Compliance                a                       IA                         E
Operation (if applicable)          E                       IA                         E
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(,)           (I)               (E)                E)
El             0                11                 1:



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan No.                          Purpose                        Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. 1852-TH         The project consisted of an open pit lignite mine to  1980   Completed.
Mae Mor Lignite   increase production from I million tons (mt) 1979 to
Project            2.8 mt per year from 1984. The project scope included
engineering, procurement and erection of mining and
related equipment including a 1,200 ton per hour
lignite handling system, and technical assistance and
training. It also included expansion of the maintenance
workshop and power supply system for now activities.
2. 2000-TH         The project consisted of three subprojects, namely,  1981     Completed
Power Subsector    Chiew Lam and Lang Suan Hydroelectric Stations and
Project            the Fifth Transmission System Expansion, and EGAT's
energy conservation and environmental training
programs.
3. 2312-TH         The project comprised two parts: Part A assisted the  1983    Completed
Provincial Power    Government to finance a portion of the first phase of its
Distribution Project  Norrnal Rural Electrification Program scheduled for
implementation over the 1983-86 period, and Part B
included measures to strengthen and modernize PEA's
operations.
4. 2407-TH         The project's main goal was to expand lignite mining  1984    Completed
Second Mae Moh    capacity to 5.0 million tonnes per year in order to
Lignite Project    provide fuel to three additional 150 kV power
generating plants (Units 5, 6 and 7) and increase total
generating capacity to 825 kW.
5. 2915-TH         The project was to (a) expand and strengthen the    1988      Completed
Power              Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand's (EGAT)
Transmission      transmission system; (b) achieve a better integration of
Project            the national power grid; (c) deal with demand and
supply uncertainties; (d) upgrade the existing load
dispatch centers; and (e) promote improvements in load
forecasting methods and in the power tariff structures.



- 17 -
Loan No.                          Purpose                        Year of      Status
approval
6. 3027-TH         The project was to: (a) help meet the growth in power  1989   Completed
Power System       demand expected over the medium term at least cost; (b)
Development        reduce Thailand's dependence on imported fuel by
Project            supporting the development and use of domestic lignite
and natural gas for power generation; and (c) strengthen
EGAT's operational performance through the
introduction of a computerized maintenance
management system for thermal and hydro generating
units, the acquisition of environmental monitoring
equipment, and the provision of specialized training.
7. 3138-TH         TheProject was to assist in financing a two-year    1990      Completed
Second Power       (FY90-91) time-slice of the investmentprogram
System             during the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY87-91). Its
Development        main objectives were to: (a) meet the growth in power
Project            demand expected over the medium term at least-cost;
and (b) strengthen EGAT's capabilities in
environmental monitoring and evaluation through
technical assistance.
8. 3423-TH         The project was to assist in financing a two year   1992      Completed
Third Power        (FY91-92) time-slice of EGATs investtnent program.
System             The main objectives of the Bank loan were: (a) to
Development        assist EGAT in optimizing its investment decisions and
Project            to help meet the growth in power demand over the
medium term at least cost; and (b) to strengthen the
environmental capabilities of the power and mining
sectors.
9. 3404-TH         The main objectives of the project are to: (a) help meet  1992  Completed
Distribution System  the growth in power demand in one of the most rapidly
Upgrading Project   industrializing areas of Thailand at optimal reliability
and costs; (b) improve PEA's technical and management
capabilities to face the challenges of rapid growth in its
service area; and (c) ensure through the monitoring of
appropriate financial covenants that PEA's financial
strength remains adequate to support its growth.
10. 3598-TH       The project included (a) construction of subtransmission  1993  On-going
Distribution       and distribution facilities including transmission
System And         substations and transmission lines and conversion from
Energy Efficiency   overhead to underground distribution in heavily
Project            congested areas; and (b) consulting studies regarding:
formulation of strategies for privatization of some of
MEA's activities; design and implementation of
subsystems in the integrated fnancial and management
information system; and environmental and safety
considerations in system design.



- 18-
Loan No.                          Purpose                        Year of       Status
approval
Following operations
11. 3884-TH        The project will: (a) assist the Electricity Generating  1995  On-going
Lam Takhong        Authority of Thailand (EGAT) in optimizing its
Pump Storage      investment decisions and help meet the system's peak
Project            power demand from 2000 onwards at least cost; (b)
strengthen the environmental capabilities of EGAT;
and (c) assist the Government in privatization of the
generation, transmission and distribution utilities. In
addition, the Bank expects, during the project's tenure,
to continue rendering technical advice to the
Government in the implementation of power sub-
sector and environmental reforms.
12. 4067-TH       The project is to: (a) improve through automation the  1997    On-going
Distribution       efficiency and reliability PEA's distribution network
Automation and     and strengthen its operational capabilities; (b) upgrade
Reliability       the distribution system in the south of Thailand to meet
Improvement        demand growth efficiently and at least cost; (c)
Project            strengthen PEA's engineering and management
capabilities through the integration of its GIS with the
SCADA system; (d) help rationalize PEA system's
interfacing arrangements with EGAT; and (e) help
investigate the issues and options for the regulatory
framework of the energy sector.
13. 4199-TH       The project is to: (i) improve the reliability of the  1997    On-going
Metropolitan       distribution system and contain losses at current levels,
Distribution       while meeting the projected rapid increase in
Reinforcement      electricity demand; (ii) assist in the organization
Project            restructuring of the Metropolitan Electricity Authority
(MEA) leading to its commercialization and
corporatization; and (iii) introduce demand-side
management (DSM) capabilities in MEA's
organization thus deepening the DSM focus in the
country's most rapidly growing area.
14.                The project is to: a) help the Electricity Generating  1998
EGAT Investment   Authority of Thailand (EGAT) meet its essential
Program Support   investment commitments on generation and
Project            transmission projects whose implementation has already
been under way; b) help EGAT not lose ground in
accomplishing its organizational restructuring and
corporatization, and implementing its privatization
strategy and c) help improve the regulatory framework
for the energy sector.



- 19 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned      Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                             01/19/93
Preparation                                                            02/10/93
Appraisal                                                              05/29/93
Negotiations                                                           12/06/93
Board Presentation                                                     09/22/94
Signing                                                                09/27/94
Effectiveness                                                          01/20/95
Midterm review (if applicable)                         N.A.              N.A.
Project Completion                                   03/31/98          10/2001*
|Loan Closing                                         03/31/99          03/31/99
- As of the loan closing date, the project was 78% complete. The protracted delay is mainly for one
project component due to reasons as stated in the ICR. PEA has committed to complete the project
using its own financing.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY95      FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00
Appraisal Estimate             6.5       28.4      42.7     50.0
Actual                         0.0       22.8      39.0     43.4      49.0
Actual as % of Estimate        0.0       79.9      91.3     86.8         -
Date of Final Disbursement August 16, 1999.
(An undisbursed balance of US$ 0.97 million was canceled.)



- 20 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. Transmission Lines and Substations
Bank Financed Components
Project       Entire Project       Financing Agency        Completion Status (May 1999)
Component      SAR   Revised  IBRD   KfW   ODA   PEA   IBRDI  KfW    ODA    PEA
115 kV T[L
No. of T/L circuits   19    19      18                    1      7
cct-km            925      999     857                   142    392                    11
Substations
No.                19       19             16     3                     2
Transformer MVA    800     800            550   250                     75
Description              cct-km          Progress       Expected Completion Date
Lot 2                 195.72            50%                  May 2000
Lot3                  110.83            99%                  June 1999
Lot 4                 168.38            98%                  June 1999
Lot 5                 155.64            100%                 Completed
Lot 6                 178.89            36%                 October 2001
Lot 7                 47.58             100%                 Completed
Total                 857.04            75%
Note: Lot I (T/L of 142.52 cct-km) is financed by PEA.
Kf W/ODA Financed Component
Description              MVA             Progress        Expected Completion Date
Lot I (KfW)
Group A                  275              99%                October 1999
Group B                  125             94%                 October 1999
Group C                  150             100%
Lot 2 (ODA)                       250              89%                December 1999
B. Village Electrification
Project Components             SAR         Revised/Actual     Status of Completion
(May 99)
No of Villages                       1,000            1,096          1,050        95.8%
No. of Extensions                    10,000          10,722         10,701        99.8%
22 or 33 kV Lines (cct-km)           5,500          6,517.25       6,349.81       97.4%
LV lines (cct-km)                    8,000          8,802.47       8,664.16       98.4%
Transformer kVA                      84,000         103,100         99,860        96.9%
No. of consumer connections         120,000         143,388         140,877       98.2%



- 21 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Performance Indicator                                   Actual
Reduce system losses to not more than 7 % in FY99        Losses in FY98: 5.9%
Expected in FY99: 5.8%
Reduce SAIFI (number of outages/year/customer) as follows:
FY98: Industrial Estates: 5.23; Urban: 14.2; Rural: 22.76  FY98: Industrial Estates: 3.33; Urban: 12.26;
FY99: Industrial Estates: 4.95; Urban: 13.7; Rural: 21.28  Rural: 20.42
FY00: Industrial Estates: 4.68; Urban: 13.2; Rural: 19.79
FY01: Industrial Estates: 4.40; Urban: 12.7; Rural: 18.30
Reduce SAIDI (min/year/customer) as follows:
FY98: Industrial Estates: 420; Urban: 1007.75; Rural: 1845.25   FY98: Industrial Estates: 132.89; Urban:
FY99: Industrial Estates: 324; Urban: 883.50; Rural: 1614.50    793.98; Rural: 1661.33
FY00: Industrial Estates: 228; Urban: 759.25; Rural: 1383.75
FY01: Industrial Estates: 132; Urban: 635; Rural: 1153
Complete reorganization of PEA - Divestiture of PEA's non-   Delayed by about two years. The delay is due
core activities - by October 2000.                       to approval by Government, in September
1998, of a new Master Plan for State
Enterprise Sector Reform (which includes
privatization of electric utilities). The Master
Plan has the following targets:
*  December 2000: non-core activities
established as business units.
  December 2001: PEA organized into
regional distribution units. Distribution
and supply established as cost centers.
* Mid-2004: PEA regional distribution
units corporatized.
* January 2002: privatize PEA's non-core
subsidiaries.
* Mid 2004: Privatize PEA's distribution
companies.
By end of 1999 PEA is required to prepare a
new Action Plan proposing a detailed
organizational structure and implementation
plan and to submit to the Bank.
Financial Performance:                                   For FY98:
*  Self financing ratio (SFR) of not less than 25% of three year   *  SFR: 13.6%
capital expenditure
*  Rate of return on revalued assets (ROR) of 4% after   *  ROR: 4.8%
remittance to State of 30% of net income
*  Debt equity ratio not greater than 1.5x               *  Debt equity ratio: 0.6x
Note: No indicators for project operations were included in SAR/President's Report. Some
indicators were retrofitted during project implementation.



- 22 -
Table 7: Studies
Purpose as Defined at                          Impact of
Study          Appraisal/Redefined        Status                Study
1. Study of       To carry out a technical    Completed.  The recommendations of the
Rationalization    assistance study to define and  Final report  study have been used as the basis
of PEA's        rationalize PEA's interfacing  submitted to  for discussions with EGAT on
Interfacing     arrangements with EGAT.      PEA in   the locations of terminal
Arrangements                                April 1997.  substations. EGAT has also
with EGAT                                               agreed with most of the
recommendations of the report
including those for looping the
115 kV systems, and the
standardization of protection
systems.
2. Regulatory      To assist the Thai         Completed.  The recommendations are in line
Framework of    Government in development   Final report  with the Master Plan for State
the Energy      an administrative and      submitted to  Enterprise Sector Reform, which
Sector          institutional framework for  NEPO in   was approved by Government on
effective regulation of the  August    September 1, 1998. The report
energy sector.               1998.    sets up the institutional
requirements for effective
regulation of the energy sector.
3. Study on the    To review PEA's plan for      Full     The consultants have submitted a
Technical       transmission and substation    completion  report on Task 4 on the review of
Aspects of      development and to carry out  expected in  PEA's plan for transmission and
Power           feasibility studies on      December  substation development and PEA
Transmission    integrated transmission       1999.    approved the report in February
and Substation    system and substations                1998. Task 5 (feasibility study for
Development     project.                               the integrated transmission system
and substation project) is being
carried out; and the final report for
the study (Task 6) is expected to
be completed in December 1999.
PEA is satisfied with the progress
of the study and has already
integrated some of the
recommendations into its
development plans.



- 23 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest
Estimate(US$M)
Item                   Local  Foreign      Total    Local  Foreign      Total
Costs    Costs               Costs     Costs
Sub-transmission Lines                89.5      23.6     113.1      51.4     23.1      74.5
Substations                           27.1      34.5      61.6      65.9     46.0      111.9
Rural Electrification                 58.5      18.1      76.6      60.0      23.9      83.9
Consultancy Services                   0.3       0.7       1.0         -         -         -
DutiesandTaxes                        20.6       0.0      20.6      15.5         -      15.5
Total Base Cost                      196.0      76.9     272.9
Physical Contingencies                17.8       6.4      24.2
Price Contingencies                   45.4       7.6      53.0
Total Project Cost                   259.2      91.0     350.2    192.8       93.0    285.8
Interest during construction          18.6       6.2      24.8
Total Financing Required             277.8      97.2     375.0
* The actual interest during construction is not available.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest
Estimate(US$M)
Source                  Local    Feign      Total    Local  Foreign      Total
Costs    Costs               Costs     Costs
World Bank                           50.0      50.0        -      47.6      47.6
KfW                        -      29.4      29.4         -      31.2      31.2
UK Government (ODA)                -      10.9      10.9         -      14.2      14.2
Other Borrowings             148.3      6.9      155.2     48.7         -      48.7
Equity for RE Development         30.0        -       30.0             -              -
IntemalCashGeneration           99.5         -      99.5    144.1          -     144.1
TOTAL                   277.8      97.2     375.0    192.8       93.0    285.8



- 24 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate            Re-estimate
Economic Internal Rate of Return           17%                       12.3%
N (EIRR) For deaiedclclains_seAnexC
Note: For detailed calculations, see Annex C.



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment               Description of covenant          Comments
type     status     date         date
Guarantee  3.01           5        CP                              Carry out periodic review of electricity tariffs to
produce for PEA satisfactory SFR, ROR and debt
service ratio.
Loan        3.02         10         C                              PEA shall carry out an annual review and update
of its investment program and keep the Bank
informed.
4.03         5         C                               PEA shall make adequate provisions for
insurance.
5.01(b)      1         C                               Have accounts and financial statements audited
each financial year.
I        C                               Fumish certified copies of financial statements to
the Bank 6 months after end of each fiscal year.
I        C                               PEA to employ qualified auditors.
5.02(a)      2        NC                               PEA to maintain not less than 25% SFR.       1/
5.02(b)      2         C                               PEA to review and inform the Bank whether it
will meet the covenanted SFR for the current
fiscal year and the following fiscal year.
5.03(a)      2         C                               PEA to maintain not less than 4% Rate of Return
(ROR).
2         C                              PEA to review and inform the Bank whether it
will meet the covenanted ROR for the current
fiscal year and the following fiscal year.
5 .04 (a)    2         C                               PEA shall not incur debt greater than 1.5 times
capital plus surplus.
5.04 (b)     2         C                               PEA shall not incur short and medium term debt
exceeding 15% of all debt.
1/ In compliance for the project life until 1997. However, because of the much-larger-than-normal remittance required by the
Government after financial crisis, PEA has not been able to comply with the covenanted SFR since 1998.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                     8.  = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from        9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                      10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds               11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                         allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing      12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                    action
6. =  Environmental covenants                             13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 26 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title         I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the Project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned           Revised           Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle           Weeks    US$    Weeks  JUSS   Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal           n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      8.7   24,204
Appraisal                           n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.      15.7   45,033
Negotiation through Board approval  n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.       2.6    6,830
Supervision                        43.3    78,083    42.3   81,284      16.6   40,439
Completion                         n.a.      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.       7.5   20,500
TOTAL                             n.a.      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.      51.1  137,006



- 27 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month    No. of    Days    Specialized       Implemen-     Development               Types of
Project Cycle    /Ycar    Persons    in       Staff Skills     tation        Objectives               Problems
Field   Represented     Progress
Tlhrough Appraisal   12/92      1        1     Power Eng.          n/a             n/a
06/93      2         5     Power Eng.          n/a             n/a
Fin. Analyst
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision        05/95       2         3     Power Eng.          S               S
Fin. Analyst
02/96      2         3     Power Eng.          S               S         Implementation delay by one year
Fin. Analyst                                  due to delay in appointment of
consultants and problems with
design and procurement of
transmission lines.
09/96      2         3     Power Eng.          S               S         Physical construction delays;
Fin. Analyst                                 slowed down in organizational
restructuring.
02/97       3        3     Power Eng.          S               S         Delays in physical construction
Fin. Analyst                                  and organizational restructuring.
Consultant
04/98      3         3     Power Eng.          S               U         Slow progress in restructuring and
Fin. Analyst                                  corporatization: non-compliance
Institutional                                 with SFR covenant.
Specialist
02/99      4        4.5    Power Eng.          S               S         Implementation delays; non-
Fin. Analyst                                  compliance with SFR covenant
Institutional                                 due to larger-than-normal
Specialist                                    remittance.
Consultant
Completion         06/99       2        5.5    Power Eng.          S               S         Substantial implementation
Op. Officer                                   delays; non-compliance with
financial covenant.
Note: Most of the above missions were conducted in combination with missions for other power projects,
therefore, the days spent in the fields for some missions are estimates.



- 28 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3798-IND))
ANNEXES
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
ANNEX C: CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC INTERNAL
RATE OF RETURN
ANNEX D: PEA'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS



- 29 -
ANNEX A
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT (PEA)
(LOAN 3798-TH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
June 1999
Introduction
1.    This Aide-Memoire records the findings of a World Bank mission comprising
Messrs. Kurt Schenk and Yuling Zhou, who visited Thailand during June 7-18, 1999, for
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Distribution System
Reinforcement Project (Loan 3798-TH). The Aide Memoire will be ratified by Bank
management and submitted to PEA shortly upon return of the mission to Washington.
2.    The mission would like to thank PEA staff for the assistance provided to the
mission in collecting data and information and for its excellent cooperation and gracious
hospitality.
Project Components
3.    The project included the following components: (a) construction of 19 new
l 15/22kV substations with a total capacity of about 800 MVA and 19 associated 115kV
subtransmission lines with a total length of about 925 cct-km; (b) construction of about
5500 cct-km of 22/33kV lines, 8000 km low voltage lines, 84 MVA distribution
transformers, 120,000 consumer connections; and (c) consulting services for (i) project
engineering and design, (ii) extending PEA's capabilities in computerized distribution
planning and design; and (iii) formulating a plan for the corporatization and possible
privatization of PEA's operations.
Review of Physical Components
4.    Transmission Lines and Substations. As of loan closing (March 31, 1999), the
overall completion of the Bank-financed component of the project was 75%. A total of
999 cct-km 115 kV transmission lines are planned to be completed, of which 857 cct-km
are financed by the Bank. This component of the project should have been completed by
December 1997 according to the original schedule. The overall completion of this project
component is now 78% (including 19 substations financed by other sources, i.e. KfW,
ODA and PEA). There were no people relocated due to the project. PEA indicated that
project coordination was exercised effectively after some initial problems. The table
below provides a summary of the status of all the physical components.



- 30 -
Project      Entire Project      Financing Agency      Completion Status (May 1999)
Component     SAR   Revised  IBRD   KfW  i ODA   PEA   IBRD   KfW    ODA   PEA
115 kV TIL
No. of T/L circuits   19  19     18                   1      7
cct-km           925    999    857          l        142   392                   11
Substations
No.               19      19            16    3                     2
Transformer MVA | 800    800            550 I 250                  75
5.     The substantial delays in implementation are mainly caused by delays in
procurement and in construction due to delays in obtaining permission from the Highway
Department for the Right of Way, or from the Forestry Department for building some
towers outside the Right of Way since otherwise they would have obstructed traffic.
Land acquisition for the substations was also a problem but these have been resolved.
Another important source of delay during the latter stages of the project (particularly in
FY98 and even at present) was the liquidity problem faced by the contractors, which was
beyond PEA's control. This is a major source of risk in being able to finalize all the
components of the project on schedule.
6.     The mission discussed with PEA the schedule of completion of the project (see
the table below). The main problems with Lot 6 which is only 36% complete at present
include: (i) contractor's lack of liquidity; (ii) prolonged approval from the Highway
Department; (iii) flooding due to low level of the construction area. In addition, in a few
cases, defective concrete poles were rejected by PEA Acceptance Committee, causing
additional delays. The mission advised PEA to review the current status of the
contractor's liquidity problem and if the situation could not be improved shortly, PEA
should take over the construction from the Contractors in line with the provisions under
the contract and complete the lines as soon as possible by its own resources.
Description         cct-km        Progress     Expected Completion Date
Lot 2            195.72          50%               May 2000
Lot 3             110.83         99%               June 1999
Lot4             168.38          98%               June 1999
Lot 5            155.64          100%              Completed
Lot 6            178.89          36%              October 2001
Lot 7             47.58          100%              Completed
Total            857.04          75%
Note:  Lot 1 (T/L of 142.52 cct-km) is financed by PEA.
7.     As indicated in the table below, the three ODA-financed substations are about
89% complete, while the KfW financed substations are about 97.6% complete.
Description         MVA         Progress      Expected Completion Date
Lot I (KfW)
Group A            275           99%              October 1999
Group B             125          94%              October 2000
Group C             150         100%
Lot 2 (ODA)               250          89%              December 1999



- 31 -
8.    Village Electrification Program.  With the SAR targets exceeded and 99%
completed as of May 1999, the implementation of this Bank-financed component has
been satisfactory. Project coordination was effectively provided by the Project Planning
Division. The implementation schedule has been extended by about two years to
September 1999 due to expanded scope of work. The table below provides a summary of
the status of this component.
Project Components    SAR   Revised/A     Status of
ctual     Completion
No of Villages          1,000    1,096     1,050   95.8%
No. of Extensions       10,000    10,722    10,701   99.8%
22 or 33 kV Lines (cct-km)    5,500   6,517.25  6,349.81  97.4%
LV lines (cct-km)       8,000   8,802.47  8,664.16  98.4%
Transformer kVA         84,000   103,100   99,860   96.9%
No. of consumer connections  120,000   143,388   140,877  98.2%
Review of TA Components
9.    PEA indicated that the loan proceeds allocated in the SAR for TA was not utilized
since PEA had acquired financing from other sources. However, the original scope of the
technical assistance as described in the SAR (see para. 3 above) was redefined with
Bank's concurrence to include the following three studies coordinated under this project:
(i) Study of Rationalization of PEA's Interfacing Arrangements with EGAT (Lahmeyer
International), (ii) Regulatory Framework of the Energy Sector (London Economics), and
(iii) Study of the Technical Aspects of Power Transmission and Substation Development
(Stone & Webster).
10.   Study of Rationalization of PEA's Interfacing Arrangements with EGAT. This
TA was financed under a JGF grant (63 million-Yen). The final report was submitted to
PEA in April 1997. The recommendations of the study have been used as a basis for
discussions with EGAT on the locations of terminal substations. EGAT has also agreed
with most of the recommendations of the report including those for looping the 115 kV
systems, and the standardization of protection systems.
11.   Regulatory Framework of the Energy Sector.  This TA was financed (US$ 0.65
million) under another Bank Loan (No. 4067-TH). It was satisfactorily completed with a
final report submitted to NEPO in August 1998. The recommendations are in line with
the Master Plan for State Enterprise Sector Reform, which was approved by Government
on September 1, 1998. The report sets up the institutional requirements for effective
regulation of the energy sector.
12.   Study on the Technical Aspects of Power Transmission and Substation
Development. This technical assistance, financed by USTDA (US$ 0.5 million), is yet
to be completed. The consultants have submitted a report on Task 4 on the review of



- 32 -
PEA's plan for transmission and substation development and PEA approved the report in
February 1998. Task 5 (feasibility study for the integrated transmission system and
substation project) is being carried out; and the final report for the study (Task 6) is
expected to be completed in December 1999. PEA is satisfied with the progress of the
study and has already integrated some of the recommendations into its development
plans.
Review of PEA's Financial Performance
13.   Despite the country's economic crisis and slowing down of the energy demand
growth, PEA continued to achieve satisfactory financial results in FY98. The average
sale price for the year increased considerably (by about 11.8%, from Baht 1.87/kWh in
1997 to Baht 2.09/kWh in 1998) because of the Government's decision to permit the
utilities to recoup foreign exchange losses partially from the customers through increase
of the Energy Adjustment Charge (Ft). As a result, PEA's energy sales revenue increased
by 13.9% though its energy sales increased only by 1.9%. With the entire foreign
exchange losses and remittance to government taken into account in FY98, PEA recorded
a net profit of Baht 993 million. The Government required PEA to remit Baht 8.2 billion
for FY98 with Baht 7.0 billion paid in the year and the balance of Baht 1.2 billion to be
paid in FY99). This remittance accounted for about 71% of PEA's net income in FY98,
far greater than the regular level of 35%.
14.   Due to the greater-than-regular level remittance, PEA was not in compliance with
the SFR covenant (13.6% actual compared to 25% required). Had the remittance been at
the normal 35% level, the SFR would have been 27.1%, meeting the covenanted 25%
requirement. However, PEA was in compliance with other financial covenants under the
loan: the rate of return on revalued assets of 4.8% was higher than the covenanted 4%;
and the debt equity ratio of 0.6 was also well within the 1.5 maximum limit.
15.   For FY99, according to the base scenario projections (the Moderate Economic
Recovery Scenario -- sales growth by 1.3%), unless the remittance to Government would
be reduced, PEA would still not be able to comply with the SFR covenant (20.3%
projected vs. 25% covenanted), though the projected ROR (4.2%) and debt equity ratio
(0.7x) would be fine. The projections also show that PEA would not be able to meet the
SFR and ROR covenants in subsequent years.
16.   To sustain and improve its financial performance, PEA has started to take some
financial austerity actions such as to reduce various operating expenses and to decrease
the capital investment for the 8t'l 5-Year Plan (1997-2001) by about 50%. However, to
achieve satisfactory financial performance and compliance with the financial covenants in
FY99 and beyond, Government actions on tariff and remittance are necessary. In this
connection, the Bank February 1999 Supervision Mission has prepared several scenarios
together with PEA, and PEA has agreed to take up with the Government the issues of
remittance and tariff adjustments.



- 33 -
Review of Performance Monitoring Indicators
17.   Performance indicators were retrofitted to the project in March 1997 (Annex 1).
The achievement of project objectives as reflected in the performance indicators is
generally satisfactory. The marked improvements in SAIFI and SAIDI are mainly due to
preventive maintenance of equipment, building additional substations, standardization of
the protection system, hot line maintenance, and faster repair. The new targets (for SAIFI
and SAIDI) and the actual performance are given in Annex 1. System losses have
consistently decreased from FY92 (6.3%) to FY96 (5.3%) by about 16%, but increased
somewhat in FY97 to 5.5% and also in FY98 to 5.9%.' However, the losses are still
below the agreed target (7.0%) with the Bank.
18.   Compared to the original schedule agreed with the Bank, PEA's institutional
restructuring program has been delayed by about two years till the approval by the
Government in September 1998 of a new Master Plan for State Enterprise Sector Reform.
In line with the Master Plan, PEA has prepared a new institutional restructuring schedule,
which is included in Annex 1.
Recalculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
19.   An EIRR of 17% was estimated at the time of project appraisal for the Bank
financed project components. An ex-post EIRR is being calculated.
Project Sustainability and Operational Plan
20.   PEA has projected its sales growth based on three scenarios2. According to the
base scenario (Moderate Economic Recovery), sales for FY99 and FY2000 are expected
to increase by 1.2% and 5.9% respectively. The sales growth rate in FY98 was 1.8%.
Based on the actual sales since October 1998, the growth rate in FY99 is expected to be
about -1.6%, even lower than the 'Low Economic Recovery' scenario (-0.04% for FY99).
The mission advised PEA to watch demand trends closely and keep the Bank informed.
21.   Notwithstanding the lower than expected sales growth due to the economic crisis,
the prospects for project sustainability are still good. The physical investments, when
completed, will be productive for many years. The improvements in technical and
management capabilities are already being felt in the system as shown by the
performance indicators (Annex 1). The on-going institutional restructuring program is
expected to improve operational efficiency and customer services. The mission also
reviewed PEA's maintenance procedures and found them satisfactory.
Three factors contributed to the marginal increase of the system losses: (a) some large customers
reduced their load; (b) more rural electrification was undertaken; and (c) PEA purchased more power
from EGAT at 11 5kV thus incurring subtransmission losses.
2   Low Economic Recovery, Moderate Economic Recovery, and Relatively Rapid Economic Recovery,
as determined by Thailand Load Forecasting Subcommittee, September 1998.



- 34 -
22.   An Operational Plan to ensure sustainability of the outcomes achieved under the
project was discussed with PEA during the mission. Central to the operational plan is
PEA's commitment to (i) finalize construction of any unfinished facilities by the agreed
schedule (paras. 6 and 7); (ii) properly maintain the new facilities; and (iii) continue to
monitor performance of the system.
Disbursement
23.   As of June 2, 1999, $47.31 million, or 94.61% of the loan amount ($50 million),
was disbursed. Disbursement of the loan will continue up to July 31, 1999 (4 months
after the loan closing date) for eligible expenditures incurred on or before the loan closing
date. Any undisbursed balance thereafter will be canceled.
Agreements Reached and Next Steps
24.   It was agreed that:
(a) PEA's own evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank by end of August
1999 (the mission provided advice to PEA regarding preparation of its own
evaluation report).
(b) Since the project is not yet completed and as required in the SAR (para. 3.11
of SAR), PEA will continue to prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly
progress reports till completion of the project.
(c) The Bank will send a draft ICR to PEA for comments by August 16, 1999.
PEA will forward its comments, if any, to the Bank by no later than end of
August 1999. The ICR will then be finalized by September 30, 1999.
Khun Sunthom Tanthavomn
Governor                                  Seni
Provincial Electncity AuthorityW
Bangkok, Thailand
June 17, 1999



- 35 -
Annex 1
Performance Indicator                                   Actual
Reduce system losses to not more than 7 % in FY99       Losses in FY98: 5.9%
Expected in FY99: 5.8%
Reduce SAIFI (number of outages/year/customer) as follows:
FY98: Industrial Estates: 5.23; Urban: 14.2; Rural: 22.76  FY98: Industrial Estates: 3.33; Urban: 12.26;
FY99: Industrial Estates: 4.95; Urban: 13.7; Rural: 21.28  Rural: 20.42
FY00: Industrial Estates: 4.68; Urban: 13.2; Rural: 19.79
FY01: IndustrialEstates: 4.40; Urban: 12.7; Rural: 18.30
Reduce SAIDI (min/year/customer) as follows:
FY98: Industrial Estates: 420; Urban: 1007.75; Rural:  FY98: Industrial Estates: 132.89; Urban:
1845.25                                               793.98; Rural: 1661.33
FY99: Industrial Estates: 324; Urban: 883.50; Rural: 1614.50
FY00: Industrial Estates: 228; Urban: 759.25; Rural: 1383.75
FY01: Industrial Estates: 132; Urban: 635; Rural: 1153
By FY99:                                                As of May, 1999:
*  Number of villages electrified: 1096                 *  1,050.
*  Number of village extensions electrified: 10,722     *  10,701
*  Length of 22 or 33 kV line constructed: 6,517.25 circuit-km   *  6,350
*  Length of LV line constructed: 8,802.47 circuit-km   *  8,664 cct-km
*  103,100 kVA transformner additions                   *  99,860 kVA
*  No. of new connections: 143,388                      a  140,877
Complete reorganization of PEA - Divestiture of PEA's non-  Delayed by about two years. The delay is due
core activities - by October 2000.                      to approval by Government, in September
1998, of a new Master Plan for State Enterprise
Sector Reform (which includes privatization of
electric utilities). The Master plan has the
following targets:
*  December 2000: non-core activities
established as business units.
*  December 2001: PEA organized into
regional distribution units. Distribution
and supply established as cost centers.
*  Mid-2004: PEA regional distribution units
corporatized.
  January 2002: privatize PEA's non-core
subsidiaries.
*  Mid 2004: Privatize PEA's distribution
companies.
By end of 1999 PEA is required to prepare a
new Action Plan proposing a detailed
organizational structure and implementation
plan and to submit to the Bank.
Financial Performance:                                  For FY98:
*  Self financing ratio (SFR) of not less than 25% of three year  *  SFR: 13.6%
capital expenditure
  Rate of return on revalued assets (ROR) of 4% after  *  ROR: 4.8%
remittance to State of 30% of net income
*  Debt equity ratio not greater than 1.5x              *  Debt equity ratio: 0.6x



- 36 -
ANNEX B
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT (PEA)
(LOAN 3798-TH)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
A. Introduction
This report was prepared as a part of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) of Distribution System Reinforcement Project under the World Bank Loan No.
3798-TH prepared by the Bank Mission who visited Provincial Electricity Authority
(PEA) during June 7-17, 1999.
B. Project Objective
(1) To expand the provincial 115 kV subtransmission and construct new 115/22
kV substations to reinforce the 22 kV distribution system to meet the growth in power
demand in provincial areas at optimumn levels of losses and reliability. The main
component of this part consisted of the following:
Project Component            Entire Project         Financed By
SAR     REVISED    IBRD          Other
1. 115 kV Transmission Line
- Distance (cct - km.)          925         999        857        142
2. Substation Construction
- No. of Substation              19         19          -          19
-Transformer Installation (MVA)    800      800                   800
(2) To complete PEA's rural electrification program by extending the distribution
system to unelectrified villages and unelectrified households in partially electrified
villages. The main component of this part consisted of the following:
Project component               SAR            Revised
- No. of unelectrified villages    1,000            1,096
- No. of partially electrified villages  10,000     10,722
- 22/33 kV lines (cct-km.)         5,500           6,517
- LV lines (cct-km.)               8,000           8,802
- Transformer (kVA)                84,000           103,100
- No. of consumer connections      120,000          143,388
(3) To provide consulting service to assist PEA to study the following:



- 37 -
(I)   project engineering and design
(II)  extending PEA's capabilities in computerized distribution
planning and design
(III)  formulating a plan for the corporatization and possible
privatization of PEA's operation
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
As of 31 May 1999, the physical progress financed by the Bank can be summarized as
follows:
Part 1: The 392 cct-km. of transmission lines were accomplished and 465 cct-km. are
under construction. The overall construction progress is about 75%. The list of completed
transmission lines is as follows:
LINES                  Distance       Completion
(cct-km.)         Date
1) Hua Tha Lae - Chokchai             31.82      7 May 1999
2) Chaiyaphum - Kaeng Khro            47.15      1 February 1999
3) Udon Thani 2 - Ban Phue            64.56      5 September 1999
4) Loei - Chiang Khan                 45.80      15 September 1999
5) Nam Phong - Srithat                75.22      4 September 1997
6) Phang Khon - Seka                  80.42      4 September 1997
7) Lamphun 2 - Lamphun 3               15.12     June 1997
8) Phitsanulok 2 - Wang Thong         32.46      February 1997
Total                                 392.55
The on-going transmission lines construction is expected to be accomplished by
the end of October 2001.
Part 2: The rural electrification program under the Loan No. 3798-TH were
accomplished and energized as follow:
PROJECT COMPONENT           Revised   Construction     %
Plan      Programs
- No. of unelectrified Villages    1,096       1,050       95.8
- No. of partially electrified Villages   10,722  10,701   99.8
- HT. Distribution Lines (cct-km.)  6,517      6,350       97.4
- LT. Distribution Lines (cct-km.)  8,802      8,664       98.4
- Transformer Installation (kVA)  103,100      99,860      96.9
- No. of customers connection (sets)   143,388  140,877    98.2



- 38 -
The rest of construction works is expected to be accomplished by September
1999.
Part 3: Consulting Assistance
Of the overall consulting assistance to PEA stated in SAR, some of
them have already been studied by other sources of finance. PEA has therefore adjusted
the original issue and the 3 new issues were selected with the progress as follows:
(1) Study of Rationalization of PEA's Interfacing Arrangement with
EGAT
- The final report was submitted to PEA in April 1997.
(2) Regulatory Framework of the Energy Sector
- The final report was submitted to NEPO in August 1998.
(3) Study on Technical Aspects of Power Transmission and Substation
Development
- TASK 1- TASK 4 are completed.
- TASK 5 is being carried out.
- TASK 6, final report is expected to be completed in December 1999.
Although the transmission lines construction is only 75% finished, the rural
electrification program is about 99% completed together with 2 consulting service
issues. It can be concluded that Project Objective have been satisfactory achieved.
D. Implementation Record and Major Factor's Affecting the Project.
Originally, PEA planned to accomplish the transmission line about 925 cct-km.
based on the assumption that the construction of transmission lines for Lamphun 3
substation, Ban Phue substation and Trakan Phutphon substation can be connected to the
115 kV outgoing bus bar of EGAT's substation at Lamphun 2 substation, Udon Thani 1
substation and Ubon Ratchathani I substation respectively. After surveying, PEA was
unable to connect 115 kV lines from those substations. PEA therefore decided to
construct a larger number of transmission lines than the original plan. The total
transmission lines to be constructed are 999 cct-km.
In addition, PEA has to carry out the transmission lines construction along the
road within right of ways that belong to DOH. It is necessary to get permission from
DOH and it took a long period of time. In some areas, DOH did not allow PEA to
construct the tower for transmission line across the Chao Phraya river, PEA has to move
the construction point to the area belonged to the Religious Affair Department. This
caused the project to delay.
Moreover, since the middle of the year, the Government issued the policy on
floatation of Baht currency. As a result of this announcement, the contractors, especially
Thai contractors, had severely effected by the exchange rate system and following



- 39 -
encountered liquidity problem. This has caused them to be unable to accomplish the
construction work within the schedule as specified in the Contract.
Project Sustainahility
For both 115 kV transmission lines and distribution lines for rural electrification
that have already been in operation, PEA has systematically set up the operational and
maintenance plan in order to supply efficient and reliable services to customers
throughout the servicing duration.
For the physical components which are still under construction, as the
disbursement period of IBRD Loan has already expired, PEA has to allocate PEA's own
revenues or domestic loan to carry on the remaining construction works until the entire
project components have already been accomplished and capable to supply electricity
service.
In addition, PEA has to closely monitor the current status of the contractor about
monetary problem. If the situation is going down PEA will take over the construction and
carry on construction by PEA's construction team.
This can be concluded that the Project sustainability appears to be well
acceptable.
F. Bank Performance
The Bank and PEA have the close relationship throughout the loan period. We
have discussed all of difficulties arisen to get mutual understanding. The Bank's previous
performance on the management and administration of the Project Implementation has
been found satisfactory.
G. Borrower Performance
In spite of the several difficulties arisen including the Economic Recession in
Thailand, PEA staff has joined in an effort come up with experiences from the previous
project to overcome all the problems as well as to achieve the implementation target of
the project.  The performance of the borrower (PEA) has been found generally
satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
Although the transmission line construction progress is about 75% and few of
them were energized, the achievement of transmission line could increase the efficiency
as well as strengthen the reliability in distribution system, minimize losses and operation
expenses.



- 40 -
In other hand, the rural electrification program is nearly finished with 99%
accomplished. The outcome of those is clearly seen that it can improve standard of living
and quality of life of people in rural area.
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was recalculated under the same
methodology as conducted during the Project Appraisal time. It has been found that ERR
of subtransmission, Village Electrification and Consolidated Project were 13.49%, -
4.96% and 12.27% respectively against those calculated at the Project appraisal of 18%,
0% and 17% as shown in Appendix 1.
The result of the study of Rationalization of PEA's Interfacing Arrangements
with EGAT has been used as a basic concept for the negotiation with EGAT about the
issue of terminal substation location. The recommendation of the study on Regulatory
Framework of the Energy Sector is concluded as main point in the Master Plan for
State Enterprise Sector Reform.
I. Future Operation
Because of the Economic Recession in Thailand, the Load Forecast Sub-
Committee had revised the forecast of the demand and energy for electricity. In the
Moderate Economic Recovery Case, the increasing demand for electricity in PEA service
area during 1997-2001 was forecasted at about 5%. But the actual figure in 1999 (Oct.
1998 - May 1999) is lower than that forecast. However PEA has closely reviewed the
trend of the demand and conducted operating plan as well as maintenance plan to
improve the capacity and efficiency of our facilities to meet the demand when the
economics situation get better in both industry sector and rural area.
For the future operation, PEA will encourage all of their employees to put their
full effort and ability towards the success of the project. After setting up Maintenance
Business Unit, the maintenance of our facilities will be conducted by our BU. For future
achievement, PEA will define the performance target as Losses, SAIFI, SAIDI etc.
J. Key Lesson Learned
PEA gained some experiences from the implementation of previous project and
more experiences from this project. All of the experiences will benefit in improvement of
PEA's policy for future implementation.



- 41 -
ANNEX C
Distribution System Reinforcement Project
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return for Consolidated Projects
(Part A: Subtransmission Project)
Year Max Dem  Energy  lncr Engy  LF  Invesment Operation Average  Benefit    Net
Inc Cost  Tariff          Benefit
(MW)   (GWh)  (GWh)  (%)    (MB)    (MB)  (B/KWh)  (MB)            (MB)
1994   2,097    9,339   1,104  54.51    1,313    1,874    1.60    1,765   -1,422
1995   2,387   10,823   2,588  54.49    2,826    4,394    1.71    4,424   -2,796
1996   2,633   12,212   3,977  54.47    2,049    6,752    1.79    7,107   -1,694
1997   2,605   13,822   5,587  54.44    4,627    9,486    1.87   10,431   -3,681
1998   2,925   14,723   6,488  54.42    5,798   11,015    2.09   13,546   -3,267
1999   3,032   15,635   7,400  54.40    4,970   12,564    2.09   15,451   -2,083
2000   3,274   16,760   8,525  54.38    4,205   14,474    2.09   17,800   -879
2001    3,532   17,988   9,753  54.36    3,096   16,559    2.09   20,364    709
2002   3,804   19,304   9,753  54.34            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2003   4,093   20,709   9,753  54.32            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2004   4,398   22,202   9,753  54.30            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2005   4,720   23,800   9,753  54.27            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2006   5,066   25,517   9,753  54.25            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2007   5,430   27,324   9,753  54.23            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2008   5,813   29,226   9,753  54.21            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2009   6,219   31,234   9,753  54.19            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2010   6,649   33,357   9,753  54.16            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2011    7,104   35,603   9,753  54.14           16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2012   7,586   37,980   9,753  54.12            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2013   8,095   40,492   9,753  54.10            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2014   8,634   43,148   9,753  54.07            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2015   9,204   45,952   9,753  54.05            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2016    9,806   48,913   9,753  54.03           16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2017   10,440   52,037   9,753  54.00           16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2018   11,110   55,330   9,753  53.98           16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2019   11,817   58,802   9,753  53.96           16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2020  12,561   62,458   9,753  53.93            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2021   13,345   66,307   9,753  53.91           16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2022  14,171   70,357   9,753  53.88            16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
2023   15,038   74,617   9,753  53.86           16,559    2.09   20,364   3,805
IRR     13.49
Note: "Operation Inc. Cost" includes power purchase cost and O&M cost.



- 42 -
Distribution System Reinforcement Project
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return for Consolidated Projects
(Part B: Village Electrification Project)
Year Max Dem  Energy  Incr Engy  LF  Investment Operation Average  Benefit  Net
Inc Cost  Tariff           Benefit
(MW)    (GWh)  (GWh)  (%)    (MB)    (MB)  (B/KWh)  (MB)             (MB)
1994  0.535    2.557     3     54.51   14.86       5     1.60    4.80       -15
1995  1.114    5.318      5     54.49   167.76     8     1.71     8.55     -168
1996  3.743    17.859    18    54.47  1,200.55    31     1.79    32.17    -1,199
1997  7.739    36.907    37    54.44   601.41     63     1.87    69.08     -595
1998  9.370   44.670    45    54.42   160.38      76     2.09    93.96      -143
1999  10.065   47.966    48    54.40   14.75      81     2.09    100.22      4
2000  10.706   51.002    51    54.38              87     2.09    106.48      20
2001  11.412   54.341    54    54.36              92     2.09    112.75     21
2002  12.111   57.649    58    54.34              98     2.09    121.10      23
2003  12.807   60.936    61    54.32              104    2.09    127.36      24
2004  13.505   64.235    64    54.30              109    2.09    133.63      25
2005  14.207   67.547    68    54.27              115    2.09    141.98      27
2006  14.910   70.860    71    54.25              121    2.09    148.24      28
2007  15.615   74.178    74    54.23              126    2.09    154.51      29
2008  16.325   77.522    78    54.21              132    2.09    162.86      30
2009  17.044   80.903    81    54.19              138    2.09    169.12      32
2010  17.769   84.308    84    54.16              143    2.09    175.39      33
2011  18.499   87.735    88    54.14              149    2.09    183.74      34
2012  19.236   91.191    91    54.12              154    2.09    190.00      36
2013  19.979   94.675    95    54.10              161    2.09    198.35      37
2014  20.729   98.187    98    54.07              166    2.09    204.62      38
2015  21.485   101.726    102   54.05             173    2.09    212.97      40
2016  22.247   105.287    105   54.03             178    2.09    219.23     41
2017  23.012   108.862    109   54.00             185    2.09    227.58      43
2018  23.780   112.446    112   53.98             190    2.09    233.85      44
2019  24.551   116.043    116   53.96             197    2.09    242.20      45
2020  25.328   119.660    120   53.93             204    2.09    250.55      47
2021  26.110   123.301    123   53.91             209    2.09    256.81      48
2022  26.896   126.956    127   53.88             216    2.09    265.17      50
2023  27.685   130.621    131    53.86            222    2.09    273.52      51
IRR     -4.96%



- 43 -
Distribution System Reinforcement Project
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return for Consolidated Projects
(Part C: Consolidated Project)
Year Max Dem  Energy  Incr Engy  LF  Investment Operation Average  Benefit    Net
Inc Cost  Tariff          Benefit
(MW)   (GWh)  (GWh)  (%)    (MB)    (MB)  (B/KWh)  (MB)            (MB)
1994 2,097.54  9,341.56   1,107   54.51  1,327.86   1,879   1.60   1,769.83   -1,437
1995 2,388.11 10,828.32  2,593   54.49  2,993.76   4,402   1.71   4,432.26   -2,964
1996 2,636.74 12,229.86  3,995   54.47  3,249.55   6,783   1.79   7,139.13   -2,893
1997 2,612.74 13,858.91  5,624   54.44  5,228.41   9,548   1.87  10,500.56  -4,276
1998 2,934.37 14,767.67  6,533   54.42  5,958.38   11,092   2.09  13,640.40  -3,410
1999 3,042.06 15,682.97  7,448   54.40  4,984.75   12,645   2.09  15,550.85  -2,079
2000 3,284.71 16,811.00  8,576   54.38  4,205.00   14,560   2.09  17,906.02   -859
2001 3,543.41 18,042.34  9,807   54.36  3,096.00   16,650   2.09  20,476.26    730
2002 3,816.11 19,361.65  9,811   54.34          16,657   2.09  20,484.61   3,827
2003 4,105.81 20,769.94  9,814   54.32         16,662   2.09  20,490.87   3,829
2004 4,411.51 22,266.24  9,817   54.30         16,667   2.09  20,497.14   3,830
2005 4,734.21 23,867.55  9,821   54.27         16,674   2.09  20,505.49   3,831
2006 5,080.91 25,587.86  9,824   54.25          16,679   2.09  20,511.75   3,833
2007 5,445.62 27,398.18  9,827   54.23         16,684   2.09  20,518.01   3,834
2008 5,829.33 29,303.52  9,831   54.21         16,691   2.09  20,526.37   3,835
2009 6,236.04 31,314.90  9,834   54.19          16,696   2.09  20,532.63   3,836
2010 6,666.77 33,441.31  9,837   54.16         16,701   2.09  20,538.89   3,838
2011 7,122.50 35,690.74  9,841   54.14         16,708   2.09  20,547.25   3,839
2012 7,605.24 38,071.19  9,844   54.12         16,713   2.09  20,553.51   3,840
2013 8,114.98 40,586.68  9,848   54.10         16,720   2.09  20,561.86   3,842
2014 8,654.73 43,246.19  9,851   54.07          16,725   2.09  20,568.13   3,843
2015 9,225.49 46,053.73  9,855   54.05         16,732   2.09  20,576.48   3,845
2016 9,828.25 49,018.29  9,858'  54.03          16,737   2.09  20,582.74   3,846
2017 10,463.01 52,145.86  9,862   54.00         16,744   2.09  20,591.09   3,847
2018 11,133.78 55,442.45  9,865   53.98         16,749   2.09  20,597.36   3,849
2019 11,841.55 58,918.04  9,869   53.96         16,756   2.09  20,605.71   3,850
2020 12,586.33 62,577.66  9,873   53.93        16,762   2.09  20,614.06   3,852
2021 13,371.11 66,430.30  9,876   53.91         16,767   2.09  20,620.32   3,853
2022 14,197.90 70,483.96  9,880 | 53.88         16,774   2.09  20,628.67   3,854
2023 15,065.69 74,747.62  9,884   53.86         16,781   2.09  20,637.03   3,856
IRR     12.27%



- 44 -
ANNEX D
PEA'S KEY FINANCIAI, INDICATORS
Income Statements
(Baht Million)
Years ending September 30          1993              1994             1995               1996               1997               1998                 1999
SAR   Actual    SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual        SAR    Actual     SAR   Actual       SAR      Actual      SAR   ICR Proj.
Energy Sales (GWh)            28,819  29,003    30,946  32,507    34,433   38,117    38,160  42,692    41,807  47,544     45,645    48,428    49,739    49,069
Sales Increase (%)              18.0    18.2      7.4    12.1      11.3    17.3       10.8    12,0       9.6    11.4         9.2      1.9        9.0       1.3
AverageTariff(B/kWh)            1.62    1.62     1.68    1.60      1.68    1.71       1.68    1.78      1.68     1.87       1.68     2.09        1.69     2.04
Operating Revenue:
EnergyRevenue               46,711  46,711    52,111   51,718   57,941   64,734    64,151   75,400    70,268  88,005    76,687   100,217     84,105    99,007
OtherOperatingRevenue        1,871   1,871     1,361   2,263    1,447   2,505      1,523   2,520      1,578   2,942      1,661     2,921      1,766    3,002
Total Operating Revenue     48,582  48,582   53,472  53,981    59,388  67,239    65,674  77,920    71,846  90,947       78,348   103,138     85,871   102,009
Operating Expenses:
Purchase Power              29,908  29,908   35,225  32,884    39,133  44,395    43,284   54,206    47,386  64,752      51,686    76,502     56,262    76,274
Fuel and Oil                   30       31       32      33        37      34        43       45        48      44         54        36         62        42
Operating and Maintenance    6,692   5,962    7,382   6,408     7,838   7,811      8,465    8,722    9,074   9,195       9,674     9,371     10,335    10,308
Depreciation                 3,994   4,024    4,810   4,574     5,835    5,318     6,924    6,103    7,976   6,944       9,129     8,062     10,400    9,572
Remittance to Government     1,670   1,670    2,962   2,952    2,677   3,411       2,910   3,680     2,903   3,610       2,973     6,960      3,148    5,306
Bonus                                  728              894              1,038             1,037               981                 1,116               1,058
Total Operating Expenses    42,294  42,323   50,411   47,745    55,520  62,007    61,626  73,793    67,387  85,526      73,516   102,047     80,207   102,560
Operating Income             6,288   6,259    3,061   6,236    3,868   5,232       4,048   4,127     4,459   5,421       4,832     1,091      5,664     (551)
Non-Operating Income           1,564   1,564    2,029    1,632    2,183   2,590      2,239   2,985     2,333   2,863       2,444    2,214      2,528       864
Non-Operating Expenses
InterestChargedtoOperations   961      961     1,020    982     1,270    1,069     1,849     982     2,318   1,077       2,564     1,354     3,101     1,556
ForeignExchangeLoss           385      385      485     521       252     670       451      374       446   4,583        459       496        460     1,629
Other                         225      226      140      162      144     137        147     260       150     267         154      463        157       419
Total Non-Operating Expenses    1,571   1,572    1,645   1,665   1,666    1,876    2,447    1,616    2,914   5,927       3,177     2,313      3,718    3,604
Net Income (Loss)            6,281   6,251    3,445   6,203    4,385   5,946       3,840   5,496     3,878   2,357       4,099      992      4,474    (3,291)
AverageRateBase               37,864  37,821    49,311   41,919    63,798  47,461    80,074  53,596    95,752  60,587    111,554    69,012    129,041    78,372
RateofReturn (%)                16.6    16.5      6.2    14.9       6.1    11.0        5.1     7.7       4.7     8.9        4.3       4.8        4.4       4.2
Operating Ratio(%)              87.1    87.1     94.3    88.4      93.5    92.2       93.8    94.7      93.8    94.0        93.8     98.9       93.4    100.5



- 45 -
ANNEX D
PEA'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Funds Flow Statement
(Baht Million)
Years ending September 30               1993               1994               1995              1996               1997               1998                1999
SAR    Actual     SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual     SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual         SAR   ICR Proj.
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Internal Sources:
Operating Income                  7,242   7,212      4,465    7,185     5,655    7,015    5,689    6,478     6,196   3,435      6,663     2,347    7,575    (1,735)
Add; Depreciation                 3,994   4,024      4,810    4,574     5,835    5,318    6,924    6,103     7,976   6,944      9,129     8,062    10,400    9,572
Other Non-Cash Items               (250)   (250)      (383)   (317)      (482)   (461)     (625)   (686)      (703)  3,267      (771)   (1,061)    (822)       242
Total Internal Sources           10,986   10,986     8,892   11,442    11,008   11,872    11,988   11,895    13,469  13,646    15,021     9,348    17,153    8,079
Customer's Deposit                    356     356       369      421       374     541        422     630       456      644       518       403       587      420
GovernmentContributions               179     179       510      579       411      301       400        -       101       -         -         -         -
Grants and Consumer Contributions   2,213    2,213     2,424    2,466    2,444    3,277     2,341    2,841     3,200   3,433     2,046     3,392     1,883     2,107
Borrowings                          1,137    1,137     3,972    1,642     9,337   3,182    10,120    4,794    10,446   4,345     9,290     5,495    14,340     8,820
Redemption ofBonds and Notes                  638                  -              1,156                  -                 -               2,398               2,028
Change in Other Assets, Liabilities (Net)   1,128  670  (251)    316       744        5       (75)   (798)       (81)   1,474      (87)       61      (104)      142
Total Sources of Funds           15,999   16,179    15,916   16,866    24,318  20,334    25,196   19,362    27,591  23,542    26,788    21,097    33,859    21,596
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment                  8,089    8,089    18,105   9,305    21,161   12,044    22,185   13,685    20,722  21,976    22,612    21,594    24,473    18,292
Debt Service
Interest                            961     961      1,020     982      1,270    1,069     1,849     982     2,318   1,077      2,564     1,354     3,101     1,556
Principal                          1,852    1,852    1,155    1,217     2,422    2,464     1,232    1,364    5,123    1,460     1,368     1,998    5,738     2,235
Total Debt Services               2,813   2,813      2,175   2,199      3,692   3,533     3,081    2,346     7,441   2,537      3,932     3,352    8,839     3,791
Sinking Fund of Bond & Notes                  423                325               265                 80              1,185               4,641                  94
Increase in Non-Cash Working Capital    3,666    3,423   (98)    899       611      931      (480)   2,065      (993)  4,602      (194)    1,246       115     2,428
Increase in Cash                    1,431    1,431    (4,266)  4,138    (1,146)   3,561       410    1,186      421  (6,758)       438    (9,736)      432    (3,009)
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital    5,097   4,854    (4,364)  5,037  (535)  4,492       (70)   3,251      (572)  (2,156)     244    (8,490)      547      (581)
Total Application of Funds       15,999   16,179    15,916  16,866    24,318   20,334    25,196   19,362    27,591  23,542    26,788    21,097    33,859    21,596
Debt Service Coverage                 3.9      4.2       4.1     4.5       3.0      4.5       3.9      4.9       3.7     3.7       3.8        1.7      1.9       4.3
Three Years Average Investment       9,970    8,443    17,548   9,813    20,484   11,678    21,356   15,902    21,840   19,767    22,602    17,797    23,904    18108
Self-Financing Ratio (%)               45      59        39       82        33      71         44      47        32       26        50        14        34       20



- 46 -
ANNEX D
PF.A'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Balance Sheet
(Raht Million)
Years ending September 30                 1993                 l994                 1995                 1996                  1997                 1998                 1999
SAR     Actual      SAR      Actual       SAR      Actual      SAR      Actual      SAR      Actual      SAR       Actual      SAR    ICR Proj.
ASS. b S
Fixed Assets:
Plaint in Service                  87,356    88,026    113,766    99,372    138,729   116,685    165,368   132,327    192,452   153,875    221,986   175,549    254,411   200,287
Less: Accumulated Depreciation    (33,797)  (34,034)   (41,073)  (39,561)   (47,830)  (46,600)   (55,775)  (54,764)   (65,090)  (64,168)   (75.928)  (75,105)   (88,463)  (86,978)
Net Operating Plant                53,559    53,992     72,693    59,811     90,899    70,085     109,593    77,563    127,362    89,707    146,058   100,444    165,948   113,309
Work in Progress                    2,616    2,616       7,242     3,483      7,406     3,058      7,765     6,811      7,253    13,738       7,236    21,127      7,342    22,494
Total Fixed Assets                 56,175    56,608     79,935    63,294     98,305    73,143    117,358    84,374    134,615   103,445    153,294   121,571    173,290   135,803
Current Assets
Cash                               13,223    13,223      5,183    17,361      4,037    20,922      4,447    22,108      4,868    15,349       5,306     5,614      5,738     2,605
Receivable                          4,665     4,665      5,958     5,315      6,624     6,637      7,334     7,835      8,034     9,355       8,768    10,650      9,581     9,709
Inventories                         9,365    9,365       7,257     8,247      8,093     9,096      8,567    12,414      8,581    16,403       9,078    16,236      9,441    16,875
Other                               1,348     1,348       973      2,203      1,012     2,662       1,052    4,378       1,094    5,755       1,137     5,439      1,183     5,355
Total Current Assets               28,601    28,601     19,371    33,126     19,766    39,317     21,400    46,735     22,577    46,862      24,289    37,939     25,943    34,544
Other Assets                           922       922       1,397     1,303        653      430         729       603        811     3,838        902      5,781      1,001     3,593
Deferred Foreign Exchange             5,699    5,700       4,364     6,097      3,983     5,671      3,657     3,988      3,331     5,774       3,004     5,565      2,675     5,058
TOTAL ASSETS                       91,397    91,831    105,067   103,820    122,707   118,561    143,144   135,700    161,334   159,919    181,489   170,856    202,909   178,995
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity:
Paid-In Capital                     4,010    4,010       4,754     4,589      5,166     4,890      5,565     4,890      5,666     4,890       5,666     4,890      5,666     4,890
Retailed Earnings                  22,443    21,148     25,543    27,351     29,928    33,297     33,768    38,792     37,646    41,150      41,745    40,942     46,219    38,852
Grants and Consumer Contributions  14,414      564      17,501      645      19,740       794     21,875       972     24,873      1,114     26,766     1,419     28,516     1,433
Revaluation Surplus                12,217    13,837     16,205    15,305     18,589    17,614     21,638    20,298     25,323    23,245      29,577    26,611     34,478    30,747
Total Equity                       53,084   39,559      64,003    47,890     73,423    56,595     82,846    64,952     93,508    70,399    103,754    73,862    114,879    75,922
Long-Terin Debt                      24,442    24,442     27,177    26,114     34,092    26,916     42,980    28,390     48,302    41,152     56,224    44,574      64,825    52,287
Less: Current Maturities            1,217     1,217      2,422     2,464      1,232     1,363      5,123     1,426       1,368    2,009       5,738     2,235      7,006     3,422
Long-Term Debt (Net)               23,225   23,225      24,755    23,650     32,860    25,553     37,857    26,964     46,934    39,143      50,486    42,339     57,819    48,865
Consumer Deposits                     3,594    3,594       3,971     4,015      4,345     4,556      4,767     5,186      5,223     5,830      5,741      6,233      6,328     6,653
Other Liabilities                       37        37        220        67        221        99         221        89        222        51        223        20        223         20
Consumer ContTibution (Rev.)                  13,959               16,007                18,968               21,489               24,609               27,523                29,487
Current Liabilities:
Account Payable                     3,052    3,052       3,614     3,555      4,015     4,442      4,441     5,143      4,862     6,505       5,303     8,312      5,773     6,798
Current Maturities                  1,217     1,217      2,422     2,464      1,232     1,363      5,123     1,426      1,368     2,009       5,738     2,235      7,006     3,422
Other                               7,188     7,188      6,082     6,173      6,611     6,986      7,889    10,452      9,217    11,374      10,244    10,332     10,881     7,831
Total Current Liabilities          11,457    11,457     12,118    12,192     11,858    12,791     17,453    17,021     15,447    19,888      21,285    20,879     23,660    18,051
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES    91,397    91,831    105,067   103,821    122,707   118,562    143,144   135,701    161,334   159,920    181,489   170,856    202,909   178,998
vent as Tio of I otalt apitaiization   Jt 5. .j.2          29.        15.3       51./ I    jL.2       J4.2      juA -      54.1      3.59        j . I     J /.o     i36.1  -  4U.6
L-T Debt as % ofTotal Capitalization   30.4     37.0        27.9     33.1        30.9      31.1       31.4      29.3       33.4      35.7       32.7      36.4        33.5      39.2
CurrentRatio                            2.5      2.5         1.6       2.7        1.7       3.1        1.2       2.7        1.5       2.4         1.1       1.8        1.1       1.9



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25072
THAILAND
D J       TI TION SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
PEA SERVICE AREAS
(   (>C. '\ i  \  26 (   jw                   0  50  100  100  200  250  300
91  Sj,,,   j   Ud- Th-ni    <  <   I    LAO PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC
|MY MAR
Andarnon<\ N.khw ktchsi|
t | gk ~~~~~~~CAMBODIA
Andaman                       )  ui                     \                                 -J
Sea                         Thailand
.-o~~  for AIi                         -     '      - -         - *O                         I
,tro .me o1 ThFOF                    E .B*   . . -    _IC
G.opTh deoooioeoosooed, 
S.QE                                , ARE    -     .             IEE
ood  h e booodo oREA   ND5
-]    \               >9~~~~~~SfYCE ARE-.A                 _ t 
00tftiomo 'fooot  ,le          KEWONAL ROLNoEs- .                                    CHINA
: X 0 5 - n ts k - - X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MYANMAR 
t 0 ~~~ARE .. .  CA90 
p0Oof  Wrefdsonda Qoop  \\x<   
OCTOBER 1993






MYANMAR  0000                                                                          105                                        CINMYANMARA
MYANMAR                          ,~             :Stor CA                                                                                 20   Y          A                            /{
-20'                                                        '7                                                                                                                                     --
9>  w  5 tv 9  t  g                              LAO PEOPLE'S                                              >   THAlLAND
! ^TI0i,, 23                       Thr''e                              DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                             S
CVC:h,                            E \o                             47                                                      / ,         )o,',       K Ai N          t
3MW II.~~~~~~~~~~~M
U".I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ I
X   Cchhnng M/                                         1 s  /1 T 35MWrAlo;>                                                               ,-.!.,
)(ooSorioncn o~   1rr-tounKo   //                                                 ;~                                                           <      MALAYSybAr
-*,h-                                    o           - p h. .e                                                 INDONESIA "       >SINGAORE    ,
535 ,M,W               -                       -Di   UDONTDHn KLt-n Cc    0                                                                       t
'   5    A              t       rk59t    sMw l~~~BF-   }\Nhl                                              ud8K ,   l 1__    2 r                                       nhmnoom00
O0  SOOOOOO~NIO./  *                     0                                                                                         m  oN     |    P  gelg mop T oo -p h  bo poorod
r'o        \     glokbatE\>             R      ng5imPhan          roo>,   4 /     c/ g /o           N      , N,kr                          by rob   Wor    r   -
cerror oo~~~~~~~~~~~~c~~~   ~I    Psuirc                                                 oreoreo       o too rO
NMA                                                                                                               eccluo.celp for rho corceo,orce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMp 
'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00                                                         '    ;     ;  6M                   NorroormS i cr ol ~TChoWooldfcrka
N0 Ksm. Torhe or  Hok  r                                                                                                                           5
;0   \      >              ~~~~SupIro,   hlm clo h04                                 Il                                                         00  odSreo on> Ol '00200\
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                     Kr roo             0!                                           0000 00 rerro or No  0DI  HILN 
i t , p Sangk t S %/ RAYONGK 2                                    40                                    4..d  EXukS G                 UDER,   U   UREPROEC
Sclcbbort ,  ,_i  .-  0; 0l Beo rhoh Chrob,Cloro, f/.;,4 '                                                                  230  kv nNL;nes
_ .C. j u"Zi / > _ q o  :-  * 500                            -                                                  SNbN   a         tCo        rs
Chorr .t    1,i2     CoBdyo~00~                                          -       lo         t~o 
..O '       1'                10  '/0 0l      \             i                          A                    230 kV aTh.oTo
13'                                                                            Ph.r '   t-o-oh-o; 3r SOR NOR ,hP
KMOHAL    SRINAGARIND   0coog                             -      .        oro ,3M 
, 60M    Cr00            Ooogbo . a1                                                            D             :            ooCo               Hyr Clrochm  Poolor ro  f
TH,- UNUNA                             0
TFA                                     P.           r1                                               kV  S                          DEEO       PM NTO
. ,-  ,,   iT!Chpp}                                                          ,.               Illi                             .        JJ~~1. ~"
UDER         FUTHAIUR  ND
TobuaPale~~~~.... .7yt                                                                        DISW)\ jTRIUTORSNG , SYTE    REINORCMEN
hu         S                 g m       mt                                                                              <                iLPhrhadCphisakNOkh. Ch-i    ,i 
BANG.PAKONG                          0050   CO         CNAPROJECT           PT
Co UNDER                FU                      5   b _ . BeGtNURI
O I ,                                                                         34 19W A.           2       e                                                           1 .    SuOLIA ARen2
------o-----    ----- oo BALAYSIAt
0      100              ~~~~230 3V20o
~ ~ ~~~~    ($o.                                                                               KIcOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3Hd.   -    lt
to'                                                                 10'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri- Ct)Ct
30rHOV3O44WIL    N'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIOETR
-~61iL          co-g hr-
3omw 3 x                 mw             0mHo
NM                                                                                        NORTH1c  .  -   BANGKOK-TO BR
3,2400W  eEoooeutRotO  .   METROPOLITA              RE 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A =
-                                                 Ce~~~~~~~~~~~~.  h N.qC.
ow    MALAYSIA                                                                                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gi,I  d L



