Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2379
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-47890 - IDA-40770)
ON A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.00 MILLION
AND A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.85 MILLION
(US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
MANAGING HIGHER EDUCATION FOR
RELEVANCE AND EFFICIENCY PROJECT
June 25, 2013
Human Development Sector/Education
Indonesia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 24, 2013)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (IDR)
US$1 = IDR 9,717.5
1.00 XDR = US$1.50
US$1.00 = XDR 0.66
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
AIPT             Akreditasi Institusi Perguruan Tinggi (Accreditation of Higher Education
Institutions)
APL              Adjustable Program Loan
AusAID           Australian International Development Agency
BAN-PT           Badan Akreditasi Nasional-Perguruan Tinggi (National Higher Education
Accreditation Board)
BAPPENAS         Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional (National Development
Planning Agency)
BEC-TF           Basic Education Capacity Trust Fund
BERMUTU          Better Education through Reformed Management and Universal Teacher
Upgrading
BHE              Board of Higher Education
BHMN             Badan Hukum Milik Negara (Stated-Owned Financial Entity)
BHP              Badan Hukum Pendidikan (Education Financial Entity)
BLU              Badan Layanan Hukum (General Service Entity)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
COSU             Central Operations Service Unit
CPIU             Central Project Implementation Unit
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
DGHE             Directorate General of Higher Education
DGHE-IU          Directorate General of Higher Education - Implementing Unit
DIPA             Daftar Isian Pelaksanaan Proyek (Approved Budget Document)
DLC              Distance Leaming Centre
DUE              Development of Undergraduate Education Project
EFO              Externally Funded Output
EMIS             Education Management Information Systems
FM               Financial Management
FMR              Financial Monitoring Report
GDLN             Global Distance Leaming Network
GPA              Grade Point Average
Gol              Government of Indonesia
HELTS            Higher Education Long Term Strategy 2003-20 10


﻿HEls             Higher Education Institutions
HEI-IU           Higher Education Institutions Implementing Units
HPEQ             Higher Education Professional Quality Project
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IAI              Ikatan Akuntan Indonesia (Indonesian Accountant Association)
ICR              Implementation and Completion Results Report
IDA              International Development Association
INHERENT         Indonesia Higher Education Network
I-MHERE          Indonesia: Managing Higher Education for Relevance and Efficiency Project
IR               Intermediate Results
IFR              Interim Financial Report
ISR              Implementation and Supervision Reports
JICA             Japan International Cooperation Agency
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MENPAN           Menteri Negara Pendayagunaan Aparatur Negara (Ministry of State
Apparatus)
MoEC             Ministry of Education and Culture
MoNE             Ministry of National Education
MoF              Ministry of Finance
MTR              Mid-Term Review
NISHE            National Information System for Higher Education
NOL              No Objection Letter
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PBC              Performance-Based Contract
PDO              Project Development Objectives
PDPT             Pangkalan Data Perguruan Tinggi (Higher Education Data Centre)
PHRD             Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund
PSC              Project Steering Committee
QEA              Quality on Entry
QUE              Quality of Undergraduate Education Project
R&D              Research and Development
S1               Degree equivalent to Bachelor's degree
S2               Degree equivalent to Master's degree
S3               Degree equivalent to PhD
SAR              Staff Appraisal Document
SIL              Specific Investment Loan
TA               Technical Assistance
TOR              Terms of Reference
TTL              Task Team Leader
ULP              Unit Layanan Pengadaan (Procurement Service Unit)
UT               Universitas Terbuka (Open University)
Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
Country Director: Stefan G. Koeberle
Sector Manager: Luis Benveniste
Project Team Leader: Ratna Kesuma
ICR Team Leader: Ratna Kesuma


﻿INDONESIA
Managing Higher Education for Relevance and Efficiency Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary.
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes  ................  ..... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes        ........................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.    ....................   ..... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance  ........................... 19
6. Lessons Learned           .....................................   ......... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                     ................................. 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component          ............................... ..... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis  ............................. 52
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 60
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results................................. 62
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.      ..........    ............. 63
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....   ..... 64
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................. 75
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents      ..........................  ..... 76
MAP................................................                  .......77


﻿A. Basic Information
Managing Higher
Country:           Indonesia          Project Name:      Education for
Relevance and
Efficiency
IBRD-47890,
Project ID:        P085374            L/C/TF Number(s): ID'-4770
IDA-40770
ICR Date:          06/25/2013         ICR Type:          Core ICR
Government of
Lending Instrument: SIL               Borrower:           .onent
-~Indonesia
Original Total     USD 80.00M         Disbursed Amount: USD 70.09M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:    USD 73.12M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Education and Culture, Directorate General of
Higher Education.
Co-financ iers a nd Other External Partners: None
Revised / Actual
Process         Date          Process      Original Date
Date(s)
Concept        03/11/2004  Effectiveness:    12/20/2005      12/20/2005
Review:
Appraisal:       03/10/2005   Restructuring(s):                09/24/2009
Approval:        06/09/2005   Mid-term          10/31/2008     12/10/2008
Review:
Closing:          06/30/2011     12/31/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                            Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:          Substantial
Bank Performance:                     Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                 Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank              Ratings           Borrower            Ratings
Moderately                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:        c            Government:                tor
S atifactr                            Ustatr


﻿Quality of         Moderately         Implementing       Moderately
Supervision:       Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:   Satisfactory
Overall Bank       Moderately         Overall Borrower   Moderately
Performance:       Satisfactory       Performance:       Satisfactory
C.3 Quality at:Entry and I:mplementlatlion Perform_ance  Indic aors
Implementation        Indicators   QAG Assessments          Rating
Performance                            (if any)
Potential Problem                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time  No               (QEA)            None
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any N              Quality of
time (Yes/No):                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before     Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes                         Oii             Ata
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                   1
Tertiary education                                 99              99
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform             20             20
Decentralization                                    20             20
Education for the knowledge economy                 40             40
Law reform                                          20             20
E. Bank Staff
Positions                At ICR                    At Approval
Vice President:     Axel van Trotsenburg        Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:   Stefan G. Koeberle          Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:     Luis Benveniste             Christopher J. Thomas
Richard Hopper and Susiana
Project Team Leader: Ratna Kesuma                iskandar
Iskandar
ICR Team Leader:    Ratna Kesuma
yAuthor: Halsey L. Beemer, Jr.,
Chelsea Foulke Coffin
ii


﻿F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To create an enabling environment for the evolution of autonomous public higher education
institutions (HEls), and to develop effective support mechanisms for the improvement of the
quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity of higher education.
(a)   PDO Indicators(s)
Original Target Formally     Actual Value
Values (from    Revised     Achieved at
approval       Target    Completion or
documents)      Values     Target Years
Indicator 1: IThe draft law on education institutions (BHP) is passed by 2010
Value        Draft available      New law                    Higher education
(quantitative  discussed at ministerial promulgated by       Law 12/2012 has
or qualitative): level.           2010.                      been passed.
Date achieved:    17-May-2005       30-Jun-2011                 31-Dec-2012
Target was met. The first 2009 law overturned in 2010, and new law
promulgated in 2012. New law needs regulations and guidelines to be
fully operational and to ensure that the intent of the new law is carried
out.
The National Information System for Higher Education (NISHE)
Indicator 2: develops the capability to conduct and report on regular graduate tracer
studies by project closing date
A standardized        ISHE develops NISHE         ational tracer
methodology for      capability to  develops    study was
conducting graduate  conduct and    capability to developed and
Value        tracer studies has not  report on regular conduct and data collected, but
.    been established by  graduate tracer  report on  the study has not
(quantitative  DH
or qualitative):   .              studies by 2010 regular    been
graduate    institutionalized
tracer studies
by project
closing.
Date achieved:    17-May-2005       30-Jun-2011  31-Dec-2012    31-Dec-2012
The target was partially achieved. Data collection for the national tracer
Comments:    study was conducted in fall 2012 and data reviewed in January 2013
workshop. The final results on wages, time to find employment or time to
graduate are not yet available.
Institutional accreditation is awarded to five percent of all public HEls by
Indicator 3:20.
2010.
Value                             5% of 82 public Institutional 55% of public
(quantitative  one                HEls accredited accreditation HEls have
iii


﻿or qualitative):                 by 2010        is awarded to received
five percent institutional
of all public accreditation
HEls
Date achieved:  17-May-2005       30-Jun2011   31-Dec-2012   31-Dec-2012
The target was exceeded, 52 of 93 or 55 percent of Public HEI have
received institutional accreditation.
Unqualified opinion awarded by external auditors on financial audits to 5
Indicator 4: pbi    Es            _______
public HEls.
Unqualified     Unqualified Unqualified audit
opinion awarded opinion    has been received
Value                           to 5 public HEls awarded to 5 by 7 BHMNs
a    Non financial auditspublic HEls (public HEls).
(quantitative None.
or qualitative):                by external     on financial
auditors.       audits by
external
auditors.
Date achieved:   17-May-2005       30-Jun-2011  31-Dec-2012   31-Dec-2012
The target was exceeded in that 7 BHMNs (or public HEls) received
unqualified audits.
A comprehensive process evaluation of line item financing, competitive
Indicator 5: grants and performance-based contracting is completed by the project
closing date.
Evaluation is  Evaluation is A competitive
completed by   completed by grants study was
2010.          project    completed, with
closing date. non-project
Value                                                      funding but the
(quantitative N/A                                          line item and
or qualitative):                                           performance-
based contracts
were not included
for a comparative
study.
Date achieved:  17-May-2005       30-Jun-2011  31-Dec-2012  31-Dec-2012
The target was not met. Of the three studies to be conducted to compare
Comments:    different financing systems, only one study was completed, and that with
non-project funding. A comparison study was therefore not possible.
90 percent of procurement carried out by the participating institutions is
awarded within the bid validity period.
90% of                     86.2% of relevant
Value                            procurement               grant recipient
(quantitative None               activities are            HEls met the
or qualitative):                 completed within          target
the bid validity
iv


﻿period.
Date achieved:    17-May-2005         30-Jun-2011                 31-Dec-2012
The target was partially achieved. 86.2% of HEls report that 90% of
Comments:     procurement was awarded within the bid validity period. This
achievement is very close to the target and only refers to the procurement
in the last year of the project.
50 percent of procurement staff of participating institutions is certified in
accordance with national certification policy in existence in 2010.
50% of                      28 of the 29 (or
procurement                  96.6%)
staff at all                participating
Value                              participating                institutions met
.                          HEls to be                  the target.
(quantitative  on                   certified in
or qualitative):acodnewt
accordance with
national
certification
policy.
Date achieved:   17-May-2005         30-Jun-2011                 31-Dec-2012
27 of the 29 participating institutions met the target of 50% of
Comments:     procurement staff being certified. The ICR team judges this target to have
been achieved.
All participating institutions publish all records of contracted unit rates for
Indicator 8: goods and major construction materials for contracts above US$50,000
equivalent.
All records of  All records  82.8% of relevant
contracted unit  of contracted grant recipient
rates for goods  unit rates for HEls met the
and major       goods and   target
construction    major
materials for   construction
Value                               contracts above materials for
(quantitative  None                USD 50,000 to   contracts
or qualitative):                   be published by above
all participating US$50,000
institutions.   to be
published by
all
participating
institutions.
Date achieved:    17-May-2005        30-Jun-2011   31-Dec-2012   31-Dec-2012
The target was partially achieved with 24 of 29 (82.8%) participating
HEls achieving the target. This represents a substantial achievement given
that the government introduced a new e-procurement system during the
project period.
v


﻿(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target Formally     Actual Value
Values (from    Revised      Achieved at
Indicator     Baseline Value
approval       Target     Completion or
documents)      Values      Target Years
Efficiency. A 10% reduction effort in the time to graduate (to become 54
Indicator 1:.
:months) by students in B 1 grant recipient institutions.
56.7 months          54 months                  51.6 months to
graduate
(updated from 57.4
months by DGHE at
project closing due to
Value.
.a  revised dataset that
(quantitative.
i included HEls from all
or qualitative)::
rounds of grant awards)
This indicator was
added during the 2009
restructuring.
Date
.             18-Aug-2009       31-Dec-2012                  31-Dec-2012
achieved:
Comments:    The target was achieved.
Equity: A 50% increase in the number of students from low income families
Indicator 2: (lowest quintile) receiving scholarships in B. 1 grant recipients from a
baseline of 8 to 12 % percent of the student population.
Value        8% of student        12% of students            Achieved, but not
(quantitative population          receive                    for the targeted
or qualitative):                 scholarships.               population of
(In 2005, tertiary GER                          students from the
for the poorest quintile                        lowest income
in 2005 was 2.7%. The                           quintile
baseline is the average
percentage of students                          12% of students
receiving scholarships                          receive scholarships
in grantee institutions,
regardless of income
quintile).
This indicator was
added during the 2009
restructuring.
Date
.             18-Aug-2009       31-Dec-2012                  31-Dec-2012
achieved:
v1


﻿Program was primarily focused on providing existing enrolled students with
Comments:    scholarships rather than identifying and encouraging low income quintile
students to enroll, so the reference to "lowest quintile" is inaccurate.
Quality: A 5% increase in the average GPA of students graduating from BI
Indicator 3:..
grant recipients.
GPA of 2.99          3.13 based on                 GPA of 3.17
(updated at project  new grantee data
closing by DGHE-IU  from DGHE-IU
due to revised dataset  at project closing
Value       that included HEls
(quantitative  from all rounds of grant
or qualitative): awards).
This indicator was
added during the 2009
restructuring.
Date
.             18-Aug-2009       31-Dec-2012                  31-Dec-2012
achieved:
Comments:    The target was exceeded with a 6% increase over baseline.
Relevance: A 10% reduction in the time taken to find first employment for
Indicator 4:
:graduates from BI grant recipients.
8.49 months          7.64 months is             Average waiting
the implied                time of 5.82 months
(updated from 8.7    target, given a
months by DGHE at    10% decrease
project closing due to  from the new
Value
.    revised dataset that  baseline.
(quantitative.
: included HEls from all
or qualitative):
rounds of grant awards)
This indicator was
added during the 2009
restructuring.
Date
.             18-Aug-2009       31-Dec-2012                 31-Dec-2012
achieved:
Comments:    The target was exceeded.
vii


﻿G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                    Ata
No.      Ate                DO                    IP            Disbursements
(USD millions)
1     12/28/2005       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                0.25
2     01/03/2007       Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory          3.60
3     09/10/2007       Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          11.26
4     05/20/2008       Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory         13.30
5     02/14/2009       Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          22.31
6     02/19/2010       Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          28.79
7     11/25/2010       Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          39.39
8     12/18/2011       Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          60.91
9     06/18/2012       Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory          73.12
10    12/25/2012  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory       73.12
H. Restructuring
ISR Ratings    Amount
Restructuring    Board          at      Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)      Approved   Restructuring Restructuring    Key Changes Made
PDO Change                  in USD
millions
Three new activities and four
additional intermediate-level
indicators added, PDO-level
09/24/2009                  S    MS        26.61   indicators restated; eligible
expenditures and categories
expanded, funds reallocated
and closing date extended.
viii


﻿1. Disbursement Profile
- Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
100-
80 ---
E 60 -                                           _   .-
40-
20
0 -
Ln  w   w5  r     r   W   M     U C  0  0       -   N   N   M   M
0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
ix


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.    Country context. At project preparation, Indonesia was in transition from an
autocratic, centralized state to a democratic, decentralized one. Public sector and fiscal
decentralization began in 1999, but economic growth was below 4 percent, poverty
reduction remained a challenge, and governance concerns clouded political
achievements. Weak institutions, poor infrastructure, and shortages of high-level human
capital were keeping investors away and undermining service provision.
2.     Around this time, the Government of Indonesia (Gol) had prepared a
comprehensive package of reforms covering macroeconomic management, financial
sector reform, and polices to help raise investment and reduce poverty, including the
Higher Education Long Term Strategy 2003-2010 (HELTS). The HELTS was designed
to improve the quality of higher education, which would alleviate shortages of higher-
level skills that slowed investment and would encourage the absorption of new
technologies.
3.     At the time of project appraisal in 2005, there were 81 public higher education
institutions (HEls) and approximately 2,000 private HEls in Indonesia. The HELTS
focused on decentralizing public HEls and making them autonomous institutions, shifting
public expenditure on higher education to a combination of block-grants, competitive
grants, and performance-based grants. As envisioned by HELTS, these resource transfers
were aimed at improving education quality but also governance, efficiency, and equity.
Implementation of these grants would be followed by the introduction of demand-side
financing (such as vouchers, student grants, and subsidized student loans) that would
include transfers to both public and private HEls. With its emphasis on reforming
governance in the sector and developing innovative public financing tools, the HELTS
was viewed as a significant experiment in improving the management and governance of
public sector organizations.
4.     Sector context. The following five higher education sector issues guided the
preparation of the Indonesia Managing Higher Education for Relevance and Efficiency
(I-MHERE) project: (i) Coverage. Higher education enrollment rates remained low at
12.8 percent compared with other countries in Asia' and despite private sector expansion
in the 1990s; (ii) Quality. In 2000, only 9.1 percent of 4,925 undergraduate study
2
programs (public and private) received an "excellent" rating , leading to Gol's focus on
improving the quality and governance of these institutions; (iii) Public spending.
Spending per student on higher education was very low3, as was public spending on all
112.8 percent compared with 31.9 percent in Thailand, 28.3 percent in Malaysia, and 29.4 percent in the
Philippines.
2 Based on standards of Indonesia's own National Higher Education Accreditation Board (BAN-PT)
12.3 percent of GDP per capita in 1997, compared to 92.5 percent in India and 65.3 percent in China.
1


﻿levels of education4, which may have hindered the provision of adequate resources and
impacted quality; (iv) Inequality. In Indonesia, only 2.7 percent of young adults from the
lowest income quintile enrolled in higher education, while 48.5 percent of those from the
highest income quintile enrolled'. Although HELTS aimed at addressing economic and
regional access disparities, financing mechanisms were only at the design stages; and (v)
Governance. The HELTS aimed at moving away from the traditional top-down approach
to providing HEls with more autonomy, strengthening quality assurance and
accreditation systems.
5.     Rationale for Bank involvement. The Gol asked the Bank to provide continued
support for Indonesia's higher education agenda, recognizing their successful
collaboration in the sector, particularly with regard to the introduction of new financing
schemes. The Bank added value with its international experience in higher education,
which would help Indonesia to implement the more sophisticated finance and governance
innovations proposed in the HELTS. In addition, the Bank was able to adapt international
experience to the local context and build on deep relationships with local stakeholders
given the history of successful higher education projects in Indonesia.
6.     Higher level objectives to which the project was designed to contribute. The
project design supported the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)'s objective of
improving: (i) governance by helping the government build effective and efficient public
sector institutions; and (ii) the investment climate to address shortages of highly skilled
manpower. The innovations in governance and public financing were expected to yield
value for other sectors as the government continued its efforts to decentralize and
democratize service provision.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
7.     The original Project Development Objective (PDO) was to create an enabling
environment for the evolution of autonomous public higher education institutions (HEls),
and to develop effective support mechanisms for the improvement of the quality,
relevance, efficiency, and equity of higher education.
8.     The key indicators to measure achievement of the PDO were: (i) draft law on
education institutions (BHP) is passed by 2010; (ii) National Information System for
Higher Education (NISHE) develops the capability to conduct and report on regular
graduate tracer studies by the Project Closing; (iii) Institutional accreditation is awarded
to five percent of all public HEls by 2010; (iv) unqualified opinion awarded by external
auditors on financial audits to 5 public HEls; (v) comprehensive process evaluation of
line item financing, competitive grants and performance-based contracting is completed
by the Project Closing Date; (vi) ninety percent of procurement carried out by the
4 In 2004, Indonesia spent 2.4 percent of GDP on all levels of education compared to 3.2 percent in other
East Asian countries.
5 World Bank analysis of March 2005 SUSENAS data.
2


﻿participating institutions is awarded within the bid validity period; (vii) fifty percent of
procurement staff of participating institutions is certified in accordance with national
certification policy in existence in 2010; and (viii) all participating institutions publish all
records of contracted unit rates for goods and major construction materials for contracts
above USD$50,000 equivalent.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
9.     The PDO was not revised during the project period. As project implementation
started, the original PDO indicators were refined to make the dates consistent in the PAD
and legal agreement and provided more precise wording which was applied to all the
PDO level indicators. The restructuring also included four supplementary indicators that
were aligned with the goals of the B. 1 grant category, gathering data on: (i) efficiency: 10
percent reduction effort in the time to graduate (to become 54 months); (ii) equity: 50
percent increase in the number of students from low income families (lowest quintile)
receiving scholarships in up from a baseline of 8 to 12 percent of the student population;
(iii) quality: 5 percent increase in the average GPA of students; and (iv) relevance: 10
percent reduction in the time taken to find first employment.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
10.   The main beneficiaries of the project were study program participants and the
institutional management at the 79 HEls that received grants and at least 7,000 graduates
of HEls that received competitive grants. More than 300 professors received support to
obtain S2 (Master's) or S3 (Doctoral) degrees, and approximately 1,450 research projects
were funded. In addition, professors benefited from over 2,000 hours of domestic and
international non-degree training. Over 3,000 higher education students received
scholarships from I-MHERE, and over 4,000 students received funding for the final year
project, or skripsi. On the operational and administrative side, 1,600 individuals received
training in procurement. The project also supported the Open University, the Ministry of
Education and Culture's (MoEC's) Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE),
the National Accreditation Board (BAN-PT), and the Global Distance Learning Network
(GDLN.)
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
11.   The project consisted of three components with a total project cost of
US$114,537,000, which includes US$34,537,000 Gol counterpart funds, US$30,000,000
IDA and US$50,000,000 IBRD financing6. The three components had the following goals:
Component 1: Higher education system reform and oversight (US$7,779,000) was to
support the government in implementing the HELTS by promulgation of the new higher
education law, strengthening DGHE management and administration; assisting with
6 Budget numbers used here are directly from the text of the Project Appraisal Document and differ slightly
from the costs in Annex 5; Project Costs, pg. 55 due to incremental costs and other adjustments.
3


﻿developing an institutional accreditation program, and developing a strategy to revitalize
the Open University. Component 2: Grants to improve academic quality and institutional
performance (US$87,338,000) was to support improving the quality of higher education
through targeted investments and by improving management capacity at HEls; and
Component 3: Project Management (US$3,150,000) was to provide financial support to
DGHE Implementation Unit (DGHE-IU) to implement the project.
1.6 Revised Components
12.   During the 2009 level two restructuring, changes to the project activities and the
financing agreements were introduced. Component I was modified to include: (i)
capacity building support to GDLN operative to train and mentor technical staff of the
Indonesia Higher Education Network (INHERENT), especially on video conferencing
and on-line training; and (ii) scholarships to Open University staff to strengthen their
distance learning and online training techniques. Component 3 expanded the role of the
DGHE-IU to build procurement, financial management and human resource management
capacity at HEls to run workshops, short training courses, and on-site mentoring,
monitoring and supervision.
13.   These revisions were supported by the following amendment to the financing
agreements: (i) amend the project description under Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA); (ii) the introduction of "incremental operating costs" and
"scholarships" as eligible expenditures under Category 1 of Schedule 1 of the DCA; (iii) a
reallocation of funds within existing categories to support BAN-PT, the Open University
and the cost for the newly-introduced GDLN capacity support; and (iv) extension of the
closing date from June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Additionally, steps were taken to
modify the procurement procedures and revise Schedule 3 of the DCA to align the prior
review thresholds for procurement with the thresholds used in other projects in Indonesia
and to revise Schedule 4 to specify changes in the Project Operation Manual (POM). The
restructuring did not adjust any of the PDO level indicators but it did introduce four new
intermediate indicators as indicated above.
1.7 Other significant changes
14.   At project closing, there was a partial cancelation of US$6,879,002 of IBRD loan
funds. The surplus amount was due to individual grant application amounts being lower
than originally anticipated given HEls low capacity to absorb additional funds. However,
lower award amounts meant that the project was able to provide a larger number of grants
to HEls than envisaged during project preparation. In the end, the larger number of grants
being awarded was not sufficient to compensate for the smaller amounts being requested
to fully utilize the funds allocated for this purpose. Although the need to cancel a portion
of the loan amount became apparent at mid-term, Gol preferred to delay this decision
until project closing.
4


﻿2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The ICR rates project preparation, design and quality at entry as moderately
satisfactory.
15.    Project preparation. The borrower showed strong commitment to the project
from the beginning. The MoEC (formerly Ministry of National Education - MoNE) and
the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) supported strengthening HEls and moving
toward autonomy. The ultimate objective was to create a larger body of highly trained
specialists who would contribute to Indonesia's increased economic development. The
project design fit squarely into the Gol's HELTS strategic plan and was designed to
continue earlier efforts to use competitive grant mechanisms to strengthen quality and
increase autonomy of the HEls. The government preparation team was made up of a
broad and appropriate range of staff, technical specialists, and consultants. Many of them
had been involved in designing and monitoring the earlier Bank-supported higher
education reform projects, and had worked with the DGHE on developing and
implementing the competitive block-grant financing mechanisms which had supported
those projects. The Director for Higher Education of the DGHE at the time, who had
been instrumental in the development of the HELTS strategy, was centrally involved in
the design of the I-MHERE project. Specifically, he was active in working with the
Ministry of Finance (MoF) and BAPPENAS in trying to ensure that the financing
mechanisms envisioned for this project could be used. Finally, public and private HEls
strongly supported the project, agreeing that counterpart funds from their own budgets
should be earmarked for project-supported activities.
16.    The Bank and other donor agencies as well as the Gol completed extensive
analytical work7. Bank project preparation funding was reasonable and reflective of the
complexity of the project as well as the need for extensive international experience. The
three previous Bank-supported higher education projects provided several relevant
lessons learned, which were incorporated: (i) shifting the quality assurance system from
the study program to the institutional level would allow for a better focus of resources
within HEls; (ii) encouraging private sector participation through grants would support
expansion and improvement of study programs; (iii) increasing equity in participation in
higher education would ensure that students from lower income families would have
access to higher education; (iv) competitive funding mechanisms of earlier higher
education projects successfully changed organizational culture, promoted innovation, and
increased efficiency; and (v) performance-based schemes in higher education can
improve accountability.
7 World Bank, 2004. Education in Indonesia: Managing the Transition to Decentralization (vols 1, 2, and 3) August;
Japan Bank of International Cooperation (2002). Sector Study for Higher Education in the Republic of Indonesia; Final
Report 2003. Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc., for Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). JBIC Sector
Study Series, 2002 - No. 1 March; Republic of Indonesia, 2003. Indonesia Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
Government of Indonesia, March.2003
5


﻿17.   During preparation the government requested an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
to support the project design because they were considering a large sub-sectoral reform
program, requiring a long-term commitment. Therefore, the Gol felt an APL would be
the most appropriate lending instrument. The Project Concept Note (PCN) meeting found
that it would be more prudent to move forward with a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) as
an immediate next step since the Gol was still in the process of defining the reform
agenda. While the Gol was defining the reform agenda, the SIL would provide support to
further develop the conceptual approach to the reforms and assist the government in the
specific priority areas required to implement the HELTS. This was an appropriate
decision for the project design.
18.   Assessment of project design. Components 1 and 2 of the project design
balanced policy reform with institutional development: they included a dual focus on
creating an enabling environment for the evolution of autonomous public higher
education institutions and developing effective support mechanisms for the improvement
of quality, relevance, efficiency and equity of higher education. At the HEI level, the
project appropriately balanced grant activities with capacity building to support their
implementation and improve autonomy and management at the HEI level. Furthermore,
Bank management, in its communications with the Borrower, emphasized the importance
of developing grants for institutional strengthening, quality and relevance improvements
as well as incentivized performance-based financing for public institutions, including
universities.
19.   Risk assessment. The eight risks and mitigation measures identified during
project preparation were all appropriate for the project design. However, the modest
rating selected for implementation of the legal and regulatory framework could have been
higher considering the legal and administrative obstacles to the smooth implementation
of the grant financing mechanisms identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
The design team did not identify risks associated with the block-grants program, which
was raised during the decision meeting in March 2005, because competitive block-grants
had been in use for several years to finance activities at HEls. Only in 2009, almost four
years into project implementation, the MoF enforced a previous regulation to prohibit the
use block-grants for public HEls. The block-grant funding mechanism for public
institutions was initially created for social assistance (bansos) to be used during natural
disasters, not to provide funding for the education sector. While the educational aspect of
the project design was innovative and appropriate, the financial mechanisms for delivery
of the grants presented a greater risk than originally anticipated for the implementation of
the grants program.
20.    Quality at Entry. During project design, there was a quality at entry (QER)
review carried out in two phases (in August and September 2004) during which the QER
panel made several recommendations that were subsequently incorporated in the project
design. The specific suggestions were: (i) to the use of the SIL, (ii) endorse the proposed
use of performance-based block-grants; and (iii) place importance on the planned quality
assurance mechanism which would be carried out through the proposed accreditation
6


﻿sub-component. The QER panel accurately foresaw several of the key issues of the
political and legal environment in which a new Higher Education Law could be enacted.
2.2 Implementation
21.     Overall project implementation is rated moderately satisfactory. This rating
reflects the fact that virtually all project activities were completed successfully. The main
challenges that affected implementation were related to: (i) the change in the higher
education policy framework, which presented the primary challenge to implementation;
(ii) the change in financing mechanisms imposed on the HEls by the MoF; and (iii)
procurement issues.
22.     Uncertain future for institutional autonomy. A new higher education law had
been necessary to address conflicting provisions in education, finance, treasury, civil
service, and administration laws that prevented autonomous institutions from fully
implementing reforms in a sustainable manner. A draft law for HEls as autonomous legal
entities was first submitted to Parliament in 2006 and approved in December 2008. The
President signed the draft into law as Education Legal Entity Law (Law 9/2009) in 2009,
well ahead of the date of completion envisioned during project design stage. Only a year
later, the Constitutional Court revoked Law 9/2009 in March 2010, with the general view
that autonomy in the law was seen to represent the commercialization of education and
potentially impose a financial burden on communities'. It was generally felt that the Law
9/2009 was poorly drafted and was overly optimistic in setting a timeline for all HEls to
become autonomous. Therefore, revocation was argued as necessary to refine and
improve the law while keeping higher education affordable and accessible for all
Indonesians. A new higher education law was passed in 2012 and could re-introduce
some of the reforms that were present under its predecessor once the implementing
legislation and guidelines are confirmed. There is some indication that the new law will
also provide a more flexible MoF policy toward block-grant funding of HEls including
public HEls.
23.     Changes in the Funding Mechanism          for HEIs. As mentioned previously,
changes to the block-grant funding also presented challenges to project implementation.
MoF's 2009 decision that the Indonesian financing system would not support the block-
grant mechanism for public HEls prevented DGHE from providing grants to HEls, and
ran contrary to the prevailing practice at the time of project preparation. The requirement
to follow annual line item budgeting process (DIPA) not only undermined efforts to
empower public HEls but also created grant execution delays due to additional steps in
8 The Constitutional Court cited the following specific reasons for rejection: (i) lack of juridical clarity, objective, and
alignment with existing laws; (ii) overly optimistic assumptions with regard to management and financing capacities of
higher education institutions; (iii) potential of a high level of autonomy for many individual education institutions to
lead to underfunding and low quality; (iv) weak alignment of principles to the goals of the national education system;
and (v) possibility to apply the "not for profit" principle for education institutions in other forms. At a more general
level, opponents of the BHP Law were successful in convincing the Court that autonomy within the context of legal
entity status of individual higher education institutions represented "commercialization" of education.
7


﻿the approval process both at the institutional and ministry levels. This change in funding
mechanism affected the extent to which HEls could experiment with performance-based
contracting (PBCs), since line item budgeting focused on budget absorption rather than
an evaluation based on performance. Furthermore, decrease in flexibility of and control
over multi-year budgets reduced accountability at the program level. Nevertheless, five
HEls benefited from institutional strengthening supported through DIPA.
24.    To overcome these challenges, the project provided increased technical assistance
(TA) and training of public HEI staff in particular to help re-adjust the project budget
timelines to fit the DIPA 's annual budgeting process. HEI staff successfully made these
adjustments both in terms budgets as well as timelines. Study program directors and grant
recipients also complied with the request to return to the DIPA process because it
required them to follow again the university's annual budget cycle and hence curtailed
their move toward greater autonomy and flexibility.
25.    Procurement. HEls almost universally raised the Bank's procurement policies
and procedures as an impediment to the smooth implementation of the project. While
delays can be attributed to the Bank's cumbersome procurement procedures and long
delays in the Bank's review process, it is also evident that the DGHE-IU lacked the
capacity to review in a timely manner documents from the universities and advise these
institutions on how to better prepare submitted documents. These issues were basically
resolved after the mid-term review (MTR) and the project restructuring (see below).
26.    Mid-term review. During the 2009 MTR, problems at two levels were observed:
(i) a lack of experience and understanding related to procurement and financial
management by the Higher Education Institutions - Implementing Unit (HEI-IU) staff,
which was partly attributable to problems in the dissemination of guidelines by the
DGHE-IU; and (ii) weaknesses of the DGHE in the monitoring, supervising and
mentoring grant recipients on implementation. As a result, the implementation structure
was modified as follows: (i) project management was placed under the coordination of
the Secretary to the Directorate General given its coordination responsibility over various
directors across the Directorate; (ii) the group of experienced academics and
administrators closely involved in the preparation of I-MHERE and previous Bank-
supported higher education staff was tasked to act as advisors to the Secretary; and (iii)
transfer the supervision and management responsibility, which was instituted at the HEI
level to support the 56 grant recipients, from DGHE-IU to a cluster of HEls. These
measures were expected to lead to accelerated disbursements, implementation and
progress toward achieving overall project development objectives. All of these moves
increased the focus on the project and improved implementation. However, difficulties
hiring the necessary qualified consultants to implement the proposed improvement
measures due to unattractive government salary offers hampered their overall
effectiveness. Furthermore, at one point there was a growing but mistaken sense that the
new procurement laws (PP54) exempted project grant beneficiaries from following Bank
guidelines. This also affected the rate of implementation until adequate clarification was
provided.
8


﻿27.   Despite these challenges, however, all activities had been implemented by project
closing. This was a substantial achievement given the changing policy environment
within which the project was being implemented and the procurement delays.
Particularly, the restructuring helped eliminate procurement bottlenecks with an
expanded role for DGHE to help build procurement, financial management and human
resource management capacity at HEls as well as increase the role of the Open
University. Also, and as mentioned previously, there was a partial cancellation of
US$6,879,002 at the time of project closing due to smaller grant amounts being requested
by HEls, which had been acknowledged during the MTR.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
28.   M&E Design. The results framework at the time of project design seemed
appropriate to measure achievement toward the PDO. At the 2009 restructuring, the task
team standardized the collection of indicators for all B.1 grantees so that comparable data
could be gathered and assessed for quality, relevance, efficiency and equity, as mentioned
previously. At that time, the project also provided training for HEls on monitoring and
evaluation procedures to strengthen reporting on grantee achievements and complement
the original M&E design. In addition to initial confusion over the intermediate indicators,
the PDO indicator on the passing of the higher education law was problematic: while the
choice of including the passing of a higher education law as an indicator provided a clear,
objective target for measuring the shift toward autonomy, these types of indicators are
often difficult to achieve. This is due to the fact that passage of the laws falls outside the
control of the project and implementing agency.
29.   M&E implementation: Implementation of M&E was conducted as designed and
reinforced by the training provided to HEls. M&E of quantitative indicators was carried
out at three levels. First, the M&E section of HEI-IU was responsible for the planning
and execution of M&E at the HEI level. Secondly, DGHE-IU's M&E coordinator carried
out the process planning, preparation, and execution of M&E for grants with the
assistance of the BHE. Lastly, the DGHE-IU and the Bank task team aggregated data
from HEls and performed quality checks. M&E activities were conducted at least twice a
year by DGHE-IU in the form of mid-year monitoring and end-of year evaluation. The
process of monitoring and evaluating programs involved group reviewers under the
coordination and assistance of BHE to assure the quality of evaluation. In addition, mid-
year and annual monitoring and evaluations were conducted in the form of post-audit
mechanism during Bank missions. Upon the completion of each mission, the Bank
provided conclusions and recommendations to the DGHE in the form of an Aide
Memoire.
30.   M&E Challenges. Although the M&E activities were carried out regularly, there
were challenges with the collection of data and data analysis. HEls reported the basic
required quantitative data but struggled with the analysis and qualitative reporting due to
limited capacity. The DGHE-IU continued to focus on improving the capacity of the
HEls to do qualitative reporting that resulted in some improvement within the HEls to
provided limited analytical analysis of the data. There was also a challenge related to the
9


﻿interpretation of the equity indicator at the intermediate level. While the indicator was
designed to measure scholarships provided to students from families in the lowest income
quintile, the DGHE misinterpreted the indicator and, instead, reported on the share of
students in their respective HEls that received scholarships irrespective of income
quintile. This confusion made it difficult to fully monitor this particular indicator. At the
time of project closing, the DGHE-IU slightly modified both baseline and target figures
for some of the intermediate results indicators to better match the data available at the
end of the project. These slight modifications did not appear to have any material impact
on the reported achievement of the indicators targets, but did provide a more accurate
picture of the achievements over the life of the project.
31.    M&E Utilization. Data was collected regularly and reported on for the annual
HEI contract reviews. This data was then used to make necessary adjustments at the HEI
grant level before entering the next contract year. In addition, data was also collected and
provided for project supervision missions to analyze project progress and to make
recommendations for adjustments to project implementation. The data was also used to
feed into the overall higher education data at the national level and to produce the higher
education statistics. As mentioned above, the HEls have less capacity to do qualitative
analysis to inform overall policy decisions. Such analysis is generally done at the
Ministry level or by Bank staff.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
32.    Safeguards. The project was rated as a Category C because no safeguards
policies were triggered. During project implementation, there were no deviations or
waivers from the Bank related to safeguards.
33.    Fiduciary  Compliance. Financial management for the project is rated
moderately satisfactory. In 2000, there was a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) carried out which assessed the risk of financial management within
Indonesia to be high. The Financial Management (FM) assessment was carried out during
preparation and rated overall project FM risk high. The project mitigation measure was
for the DGHE to adopt a FM capacity building action plan in consultation with the Bank
FM specialist, with which the DGHE complied.
34.    Bank supervision missions included a Bank financial management specialist on
the supervision teams, and financial management performance was consistently rated
satisfactory or moderately satisfactory across the duration of the project. Early in the
project, the FM rating was downgraded from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory
mainly due to weakness in project management. This resulted in a slow disbursement rate
and delays in responding to audit report finding and aide-memoire management letter
recommendations. Revising the Project Operations Manual (POM), to clarify the decision
process within the DGHE-IU and detailing the control functions in project
implementation, resolved this. After those changes and the technical assistance that
accompanied the revision, Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were consistently submitted
in a timely manner and audit results continued to indicate compliance with agreed
10


﻿financial management principles. Audit reports were submitted to the Bank on time and
all were unqualified.
35.     The Bank carried out an assessment of the capacity of the DGHE-IU to carry out
procurement actions for the project in January 2005. Most of the participating HEls had
no experience and limited procurement capacity so the procurement risk was rated as
high'. To mitigate this risk, it was agreed that the respective implementing bodies (DGHE
and individual HEls) would designate a unit to be in charge of procurement and dedicate
specialized staff to conduct procurement. The agreement was that procurement would be
carried out by the responsible unit within the university rather than at the study program
level. Capacity for procurement would be built through training and technical assistance.
Procurement practices would include systematic accountability measures.
36.     Limited capacity and cumbersome organizational structure at the HEI level
impeded smooth implementation of procurement processes o . While there were
procurement capacity constraints at the HEls, there were also delays associated with the
Bank's performance. The early missions reported 3 to 5 month delays in implementation
of grants due the difficulties experienced by HEI-lUs in responding to Bank requests for
revisions to procurement planning action plans. It was also reported that the Bank could
take up to 10 months to complete their procurement review, adding to the delays. DGHE-
IU and the Bank held two training workshops to resolve some of the overarching
procurement problems and also agreed that DGHE-IU would recruit more staff. Based on
these agreements, the procurement rating was upgraded in May 2008, from unsatisfactory
to moderately satisfactory. The Bank acknowledged that the delays in the prior review
service standards were impacting on the grantee's ability to procure of goods in a timely
fashion. At restructuring the Bank agreed to an expedited prior review process with a
limited number of post reviews for procurement actions under US$1.0 million. These
new procedures improved the Bank's review process and by project closing procurement
was at a moderately satisfactory rating level.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
37.     There are no follow-on Bank-supported projects. The current government policy
is that they will not seek further World Bank loans for education. The final content of the
9 Key issues and risks were identified as; (i) corruption and collusive practices; (ii) procurement delays; (iii) a lack of
independent judgment from officials involved in making decisions about procurement; (iv) low capacity in procuring
units to carry out and supervise larger contracts;, (v) uncertainty about the legal framework; and (vi) unavailability of
detailed implementation procurement plans at initial stage of implementation.
10 Procurement processes were institutionalized under each university's procurement office (ULP). However, this
procurement process hampered activities in this project: (i) the implementing officers at the grantees' level were
dependent on the ULP's performance; (ii) the ULP officers were trained to work under the Gol's procurement
procedures and regulations, not the Bank's procurement procedures; (iii) the procurement packages under the I-
MHERE project were mostly small in value, compared to the total procurement value to be carried out by ULP for the
entire university; and (iv) the university's capacity to absorb and spend the allocated budget became a critical criterion
in the budget allocation for the subsequent fiscal year. In many cases, ULPs put the I-MHERE procurement process as
their lower priority to be carried out.
11


﻿Ministerial Decrees and Government Regulations will shape the 2012 Higher Education
Law and will be central to the transition arrangements for any next phase of investment in
higher education. At project closing, the prospect for increased competitive block-grant
funding to public HEls is not likely to be a priority for the DGHE. However, through
studies and technical assistance supported by two AusAID financed "Externally Funded
Outputs - EFOs", the Bank team continues to work with DGHE to promote concepts of
institutional autonomy and the benefits of competitive funding though domestic case
studies and examples of best practice.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
38.    At project preparation, the project objectives and components were in full
alignment with the CAS framework of contributing to improving governance by helping
the government build effective and efficient public sector institutions. The project was
viewed by the Gol as central to moving forward the reforms embedded in their HELTS,
which focused on decentralizing public HEls and making them autonomous institutions.
At project closing, the project fit squarely within the Pro-Jobs Engagement Area of the
FY13-15 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The CPS expects to support development
results that will improve the overall governance and management of the education system
to improve the education quality and performance of teachers, enhance human resource
capacity in R&D.
39.    It was also evident, however, that MoF and the MoEC, and more particularly, the
DGHE, were turning away from the higher education financing mechanisms supported by
I-MHERE as well as the three earlier Bank-supported higher education projects. The low
level of expenditure on technical assistance activities, particularly in Component 1,
signals some resistance from DGHE to move toward autonomy. In addition, the MoF's
policy decision in 2009 to eliminate block-grant funding for public HEls ran counter to
the use of grants to support increased institutional autonomy and budgetary control of
public HEls. DGHE was also hesitant to seek support for the competitive funding
structure financing to HEls, which affected two of the four project-supported grant sub-
components. The discontinuation of block-grants for public HEls resulted in the inability
to implement performance-based contracts in five of these institutions as they had been
proposed in the PAD. The five HEls that received the performance-based contract grants
implemented their programs through the more traditionally through the DIPA mechanism
instead. The grants were implemented but were more aligned to measures performance
based on budget absorption rather than agreed key indicators.
40.    Notwithstanding the Gol's seeming retreat from block-grant and competitive
funding structures developed over the previous fifteen years as part of the "New
Paradigm"'" and as noted in Annex 2, many of the quality improvements at the institution
" The New Paradigm - Between 1996 and 2010, DGHE introduced and fostered the "New Paradigm Era". The New
Paradigm was based on five concepts: quality, autonomy, accountability, evaluation and accreditation, and sought to
12


﻿and study program level were achieved. It is evident that the project remained relevant
and produced outcomes well within the construct of the Bank's broadly defined CAS
pillars even if DGHE has moved away from some of the financing mechanisms, which
were part of the project design. The ICR rates relevance as substantial.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
41.     Achievement of the PDOs is judged moderately satisfactory based on the fact
that the majority of the project targets were met. Moreover, the project interventions
made a substantial contribution to institutional accreditation, capacity building at the HEI
levels, and increased efficiency, efficacy, relevance, and quality of study programs that
affected individual students. In addition to PDO indicators, the development of standard
operating procedures for autonomous status has contributed to the evolution of autonomy
in higher education, as 14 HEls now follow the BLU12 financial autonomous scheme.
42.     This section evaluates the outcomes against the results framework developed
during the 2009 restructuring and other indicators of system performance. The PDO of
creating an enabling environment for the evolution of autonomous public higher
education institutions was to be measured by the following:
43.     Indicator One: Drafting of a higher education law that would provide the
overall framework for the higher education sub-sector. The target for this indicator
was met. The higher education law (Law 9/2009) was first passed in 2009 but was
revoked by the Constitutional Court in 2010. After the law was revoked, the MoEC
drafted a replacement law that was broader in scope, Law 12/2012". The development of
the Law 12/2012 was substantially supported by the project-funded high-level policy
dialogue and was instrumental in informing the higher education reform agenda that aims
to restructure the higher education system.
44.     Indicator Two: Tracer studies. The target for this indicator was partially met.
The National Information System for Higher Education (NISHE) increased its
information gathering capacity and now collects data from 70 percent of public and
foster "ownership" of development initiatives amongst HEI through a "bottom-up" process and channel funds to
institutions through a competitive funding model. With Bank support, DGHE developed and refined the New Paradigm
competitive funding modalities between 1995 to 2012, which allowed the channeling of more than 1,500 grants
amounting to over US$570 million: US$350 million from WB and ADB loans and US$220 million from government
funds.
12 BLU institutions are special purpose state agencies which benefit from block grant funding and follow a financial
autonomous scheme. The standard operation procedures developed under B.2.a grants supported the preparations
necessary for the 14 HEIs to achieve financial autonomy status as a "BLU institution". In order for an institution to
achieve BLU status, the HEI had to prepare: (i) an academic paper as an initial proposal to be a BLU; (ii) a financial,
procurement, and human resources management plan; (iii) an integrated data system; and (iv) a strategic business plan.
HEIs also prepared internal regulations and management procedures: bylaws, internal funding mechanisms for BLU, an
accounting charter, a strategic plan for IT, and basic policies for human resources development.
13 The Law 9/2009 development process had generated commitment to its principles among the higher education
community and a revised law with broader scope, stronger support from the higher education community and
Parliament, and provisions to address equity concerns raised by Law 9/2009 was signed into law in August 2012 as
Law 12/2012.
13


﻿private HEls. In addition, and with the support of the project, NISHE initiated a tracer
study capacity that has gathered data from 23 HEls. The tracer studies were conducted in
November 2012 and the DGHE brought together the institutions in January 2013 to
discuss the results and future use of the studies. The results of the study continue to be
reviewed by the DGHE and have not been published. Therefore, it is difficult to judge if
the information is comparable across HEls or policy-relevant data for a particular HEI.
45.    Indicator Three: Institutional accreditation. The target for this indicator was
met. The establishment of the accreditation system focused on whole institutions instead
of study programs has been a singular achievement of the I-MHERE. With support from
the project, BAN-PT developed and tested accreditation instruments that have been
applied at 52 public HEls and 42 private HEls to date, far exceeding the target of 4
institutions (or 5 percent of 82 institutions). The institutional vs. study program
accreditation process will continue to provide rigorous periodic quality assessment of
HEls well beyond the duration of the project.
46.    Indicator Four: Audits. This indicator was met. All seven autonomous HEls
(BHMNs) received unqualified audit status after support from the I-MHERE institutional
strengthening grants. This exceeds the target of five BHMNs receiving unqualified audits
and presents a compelling case for autonomy.
47.    Indicator Five: Comparative study of funding mechanisms. This indicator was
not met. During the life of the project, DGHE carried out an analysis of the competitive
grants mechanism with its own funds. DGHE had also conducted an analysis of line item
financing prior to the project, leaving only the analysis on performance-based contracting
to be carried out under the project. Given the MoF's decision to cancel the block-grant14
mechanism, the DGHE abandoned the performance-based contract option. The decision
not to proceed with the comparative studies of the three methods during the project
period limited DGHE's ability to objectively inform higher education funding in the
future.
48.    Indicators Six, Seven and Eight: Procurement. The three procurement-related
indicators were selected as a proxy to measure the HEls abilities to manage their
universities independently and effectively. Each indicator shows that substantial progress
was made at the institution level despite challenges that arose during implementation.
The first indicator was to measure participating institutions' ability to award contracts
within the bid validity period: 86 percent of HEls report that 90 percent of procurement
was awarded within the bid validity period. However, this indicator might have been
misinterpreted by HEI-IUs to measure the complete procurement process rather than just
14 MOF argues that they not only did not cancel this but that performance-based funding is one of the bureaucratic
reforms it is seeking. What they cancelled was the block-grant delivery mechanism and what they stressed was a line
item inflexibility that made funding very difficult and forced attention away from meeting performance targets to
meeting budget absorption targets.
14


﻿the "bid validity period" per se. The second indicator was related to the certification of
procurement staff: 28 of the 29 participating institutions achieved the target of 50 percent
of procurement staff being certified. The third indicator was related to all participating
institutions publishing contract records. This indicator was partially met: 82.8 percent of
HEls (24 out of 29) report publishing records of contracted unit rates for goods and major
construction materials for contracts above US$50,000. However, this represents a
substantial improvement over a baseline without this practice, which was aided in part by
GOI's establishment of the eProcurement system.
49.    The indicators selected to measure support mechanisms for the improvement of
the quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity of higher education were as follows:
(i)    Efficiency: This indicator was achieved. Average time to graduate fell
from 56.68 months to 51.16 months, meeting the 10 percent reduction goal. The
time to graduate was mostly reduced through funding for the final year project
(skripsi), which often takes a long time to complete due to lack of financing.
(ii)   Equity: This indicator appears to have been met in terms of meeting the
goal of 12 percent scholarships having been provided, but not necessarily for
students in the lowest income quintile as intended at project design. The definition
of financially disadvantaged is at the heart of the problem as there are so few
candidates entering from the lowest quintile, which calls into question the
baseline statement of 8 percent: universities reported in their self-
evaluation/proposals that 8 percent of their intake received scholarship because
they were financially disadvantaged and their aim was to increase this to 12
percent of the student intake. This indicator was understood and reported on as the
percentage of enrolled students in an HEI that received scholarships, HEI
administrators admitting that identifying and targeting poor students was difficult
to achieve. Based on the national census presented in the following table, the
GER of Quintile-1 population in S-1 education is merely 2.54% that it is very
difficult or almost impossible to find them in higher education. Since GER of
Quintile-1 population in senior secondary is already very low (36.08%), the
chance to recruit them at the high school level (as carried out in I-MHERE) is
slightly better. Such strategy has been adopted by DGHE in implementing its full
scholarship program (Bidik Misi).
15


﻿Table 1: GER by income brackets, using Susenas 2010 data
Quintile 1 Quintile 2 Quintile 3 Quintile 4 Quintile 5
Primary       104.75%  103.83%  102.23%  102.69%  99.18%
Junior secondary 75.33%  88.62%  92.69%  95.63%  96.81%
Senior secondary 36.08%  59.13%  72.90%  84.19%  89.09%
D1-D2          0.28%   0.49%    1.03%   1.79%   1.84%
D3-D4          0.18%    1.10%   1.61%   4.47%   9.29%
S1             2.54%   6.37%   13.88%  28.32%   64.66%
S2-S3          0.05%   0.13%    0.07%   0.21%   2.43%
(iii)  Quality: Average GPA rose by 6 percent from a baseline of 2.99 to 3.17,
exceeding the 5 percent target.
(iv)  Relevance: This indicator was exceeded. Average time to get a first job
fell from a baseline of 8.49 months to 5.82 months, which is well above the 10
percent reduction goal from project design. However, time to employment can be
affected by many factors outside of the project or individual HEI, including the
trends in the labor market, so this indicator is an imperfect second best
measurement of learning outcomes at the tertiary level. More thought should have
been given to designing this indicator during restructuring.
3.3 Efficiency
50.   The economic value of the I-MHERE project has been evaluated in terms of: (i)
employment and wages of tertiary graduates; and (ii) efficiency in spending. Based on the
analysis below and Annex 3, efficiency is rated substantial.
51.   Employment and wages of tertiary graduates. The value of increased
employment and wages associated with the I-MHERE project has been assessed through
Net Present Value (NPV) and economic rate of return calculations. The analysis is guided
by the methodology that was developed in the economic and financial analyses of the
PADs for I-MHERE and DUE (previous higher education project in Indonesia). The
methodology has been adapted as appropriate to represent the implementation of the I-
MHERE competitive 2.1 grants in Component 2. Grants were awarded to two or three
study programs at 38 HEls to enhance quality of study programs and increase
employability of graduates. Estimates indicate that I-MHERE competitive grants had an
NPV of US$145,162,292 and an economic rate of return of 30 percent. Discounted costs
of US$27,182,557 include expenditures against awarded competitive 2.1 grants in
Component 2 and administrative costs. There are three benefit flows:
16


﻿(i)    Improved quality. I-MHERE grants were intended to increase the quality
of study programs, which is evidenced by higher learning outcomes, or increases
in average student GPA 1, over the duration of the project. This benefit is
estimated at US$130,870,737 of an increase in total wages due to higher wage
premiums.
(ii)   Increased relevance. I-MHERE grants were also designed to increase the
employability of higher education graduates, which was demonstrated by a
reduction in the time to find employment during the course of the project. This
benefit is estimated at US$27,968,460 of an increase in earnings due to additional
months in the labor force.
(iii)  Higher internal efficiency. In addition, I-MHERE grants attempted to
reduce the time to graduate through funding for final year projects (skripsi),
which successfully shortened study time. This benefit is estimated at
US$13,505,650 due to earnings from additional months in the labor force.
52.    Efficiency in spending. I-MHERE grants and activities were also intended to
strengthen institutional management in the move toward autonomy. It is difficult to
measure improvements in institutional management, but budget outtum, or how much
was spent as a share of how much was allocated, provides an approximate indicator.
Therefore, efficiency in spending is presented as an analysis of expenditure against
awarded grants by grant type and nature of expenditure. This analysis was not included in
the economic and financial analysis of the I-MHERE PAD, but it is a common measure
of effectiveness in public spending.
53.    Across study programs and institutional management beneficiaries at 79 HEls, 88
percent of allocated grants were spent, which is a slightly lower rate than MoEC's outturn.
However, efficiency varies by expenditure category, in some cases due to policy changes
during the project. Funding for procurement, IT infrastructure, and software, research,
and policy study was spent more efficiently at rates of 95 percent or higher. However,
funds designated for technical assistance, community development, and promotional
activities were spent less efficiently.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
54.    Based on the information provided above, and the reported end-of-project key
performance indicator results, the project's overall outcomes are rated as moderately
satisfactory, due to: (i) the passage of a Higher Education Law; (ii) the substantial
progress in supporting the environment within which HEI autonomy can and is
15 Measuring change in quality of education through GPA is problematic. Changes in GPA do not necessarily result
from improvements in teaching, but could be due to grade inflation or even a better prepared student body. Ideally, the
changes in GPA for I-MHERE beneficiaries would be compared to students who did not benefit from I-MHERE.
However, data were not collected on students outside the project, so the analysis of efficiency cannot account for this
comparison.
17


﻿developing; (iii) the institutionalization of accreditation procedures and establishment of
a national tracer study; (iv) the increased institutional management capacity developed at
the HEI levels; and (v) the progress shown in the efficiency, quality and relevance
portions of the project.
Original Project
Project Relevance  Achievement of PDO      Efficiency  Overall Rating
(Efficacy)
Substantial      Moderately Satisfactory   Substantial  Moderately Satisfactory
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
55.   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. One aspect of the
project was intended to target students from families in the lowest income quintile for
scholarships. However, the reported data for this end-of-project target is inconsistent with
enrollment data for the lowest income quintile. The ICR team concludes that some
disadvantaged students benefited from scholarships, but it is difficult to state how many
given lack of available data.
56.   Institutional Change/Strengthening. The project supported the following
institutional changes: (i) the passage of a new Higher Education Law; (ii) development of
the HEI institutional accreditation process in parallel to study program accreditation; (iii)
the acceptance by both HEls and the DGHE of the use of tracer studies to potentially
improve both HEI management and the DHGE's policy development process; and (iv)
the integration of project procurement and financial management improvements into the
regular management structure of HEls. These are substantial achievements.
Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative).
There are no known other unintended outcomes and/or impacts.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
No beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were conducted during project
implementation.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant
57.   The risk to development outcomes is rated significant given strong moves toward
HEI autonomy yet challenges to the continued use of funding mechanisms supported
through I-MHERE. The higher education environment has already shifted toward
institutional accreditation given BAN-PT's establishment of the institutional accreditation
process and its use at 94 HEls, development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in
preparation for autonomy by at least 29 HEls, and achievement of financially
autonomous status (BLU) by 14 HEls. In addition, Law 12/2012 is expected to overcome
current legal challenges and be implemented through ministerial decrees and
governmental regulations. To ensure that the intent of Law 12/2012 is realized, its
18


﻿implementation process is planned to be informed by ongoing studies and technical
assistance financed through AusAID's EFOs.
58.   The implementation of Law 12/2012 would codify expanded autonomy and
enhanced accountability of HEls that was supported by I-MHERE. However, the
integration of competitive funding and performance-based contracts supported through I-
MHERE is unlikely due to the MoF's decision to channel all HEI funding through the
DIPA line item budgeting instead of block-grants. Line item budgeting hinders the
execution of competitive grant funding and prevents the realization of any true
performance-based contracts. These types of grant mechanisms can facilitate institutional
autonomy, but it is unlikely that competitive funding or performance-based contracts will
be used in the near future.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
59.   The project took about 11 months to prepare from identification in March 2004 to
appraisal in February 2005. The thorough preparation process made it possible for the
government to satisfactorily comply with the conditions of effectiveness within a short
period and for the project to become effective on October 31, 2005, about five months
after Board approval.
60.   Two task team leaders were responsible for the entire project preparation cycle
thus providing continuity to the timely implementation and completion of all the key
project preparation activities that were required. A QER was carried out and the panel
made several recommendations that were subsequently incorporated in the project design.
The preparation identified appropriate risks. However, they underestimated the risks
related to the political environment within which a new higher education law was to be
developed and enacted and the support for university autonomy. Preparation memoranda
identified these risks but the mitigation measures were not robust enough to resolve the
issues that the various grant activities faced during implementation. Weighing the
preparation strengths with the issues related to the identified risks, the performance of the
Bank team at preparation as moderately satisfactory.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
61.   Only two Task Team Leaders (TTLs) were responsible for the supervision of the
I-MHERE (one from October, 2005 until February 2010, the other through ICR
completion). This continuity allowed for strong leadership for the project, particularly
considering the changing political environment within which the project was being
implemented. There was a smooth transition of supervision leadership since the second
TTL had been an integral team member of project preparation and supervision.
19


﻿62.   From inception, the project was managed from the country office. Contact with
DGHE and the HEls of the project were routine and ongoing. In addition, there were 10
supervision missions, including the May 2009 MTR and two ICR missions, in November
2012 and March 2013. The above implies that in the 86 months from effectiveness to
project closing, the Bank team carried out, on average, one supervision every 8.6 months,
thus maintaining, by and large, a close oversight of the implementation cycle. Bank staff
located in the field led the supervision efforts, with international and Bank consultants
providing specific mission support and input as needed. The Jakarta-based staff was
critical in following up on the compliance with agreed tasks between missions. The
supervision teams included the appropriate technical experts and the appropriate skills
mix to carry out their envisaged terms of reference as procurement, financial
management, and monitoring and evaluation specialists.
63.   After the MTR, the Bank restructured the project to accommodate some of the
implementation bottlenecks and to appropriately modify the results framework. From the
MTR mission onwards, the emphasis was placed on results on the ground. The findings
of each supervision mission were conveyed to Bank management clearly and in a
straightforward manner, including accomplishments, implementation shortcomings, and
potential risks. When applicable, the Bank team raised issues, especially as they dealt
with the changes in the financial mechanisms for the HEI grantees, the impact of the
2010 revocation of the Higher Education Law, the negative impact of the long delays in
the Bank's own procurement procedures, and initial slowness in the delivery of grants to
the HEls. The Bank supervision missions were dominated by good governance,
proactivity, excellent relationship with the I-MHERE stakeholders and the DGHE unit.
64.   As mentioned previously, however, the Bank's procurement supervision
performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Delays of up to 10 months are reported in
getting back to HEls on their procurement documentation or requests of clarification or
answering questions. Procurement problems were repeatedly voiced to the ICR team
while visiting HEls. These delays in all probability contributed to the overall project
implementation delays necessitating an extension of the closing date. Weighing the
supervision strengths and weaknesses, the Bank's supervision performance as
moderately unsatisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
The ICR rates the overall Bank performance as moderately satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
65.   The government performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Prior to project
preparation, the Gol developed a comprehensive package of reforms covering
macroeconomic management, financial sector reform, and polices to help raise
investment and reduce poverty. Its HELTS Strategy 2003-2010 was an important part of
that reform package.
20


﻿66.   The DGHE recognized the need to initiate targeted reforms related to equity and
access to higher education for disadvantaged students, as well as to expand and improve
teacher-training opportunities in support of expanding basic and secondary education.
The strategy sought to achieve results in these areas by expanding the reach, scope and
quality of both the Open University and teacher training institutes at specialized
universities. In addition, incentives were meant to be created for private sector
universities to promote equity of access and affordability of their educational offerings
through a variety of piloted financial aid schemes. The DGHE sought support for this
approach from the MoF, BAPPENAS, MENPAN (Ministry of State Apparatus) and
Parliament to move forward with concrete steps to enact the HELTS.
67.   The DGHE initiated discussions with BAPPENAS and achieved an agreement
that the Gol would support this project in the higher education sector. It was to serve as a
test case for implementation of performance-based funding for public institutions,
recognizing that the lessons learned from this public financing innovation could
eventually be applied to other sectors. BAPPENAS was very involved in project
preparation and had an important influence on the project design, emphasizing the
importance of teacher training programs and equity in higher education.
68.   Once MoF's decided that the block-grant mechanism, which had been in place in
the previous Bank-supported higher education projects, would not be used in I-MHERE,
much of project's originally designed financing mechanisms to support accountability
and greater autonomy was lost. Financing mechanisms agreed at appraisal and reflected
in the Loan Agreement could not be carried out as planned.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
69.   The DGHE was responsible for overseeing the overall implementation of the I-
MHERE project. The DGHE was supported by the Board of Higher Education (BHE)
together with the DGHE-IU in conducting the selection process, and monitoring and
evaluating the progress of the project achievement. A policy paper16 on the organization
restructure of the DGHE was disseminated throughout the academic community outlining
the new coordinating role it was to play within the higher education community, a move
away from the central directing role it had previous played. This restructuring was a goal
of the DGHE for the I-MHERE project.
70.   The DGHE-IU established by the DGHE was responsible for carrying out
procurement process and financial administration activities at the central level, as well as
coordinating, monitoring and supervising procurement and disbursement at the individual
grantee level. The DGHE-IU was responsible not only for implementing the project, but
16 "Restructuring the Central Authority for Higher Education in Indonesia", Bahram Bekhradnia, Director, Education
Policy Institute, Oxford, UK.
21


﻿also for providing necessary training for the HEI grantees, monitoring and evaluating
procurement processes, as well as for providing technical assistance to the grantees.
71.   The DGHE-IU played the important role in coordinating the overall project
implementation and took the lead in providing general oversight of all aspects of project
implementation, placing focus on transparency, accountability and local capacity building
and promoting and integrated approach to project implementation. DGHE-IU conducted
regular coordinating meeting that involved representatives from HEI-IUs, BHE and
DGHE. At least twice a year, DGHE-IU held coordinating meetings with grantees of
Component 2. In those meetings, DGHE-IU was assisted by a group of reviewers
assigned by BHE to facilitate the clarification of HEI-IUs' proposed plans. During annual
monitoring and evaluation, HEI-UI proposed programs and negotiated with the
reviewers, including possible reallocation of budget amongst cost components.
72.   The DGHE-IU worked closely with not only the HEls but also the Bank teams,
taking part in all supervision missions, helping prepare for the project restricting and
preparing a comprehensive and detailed final Project Completion Report (See Annex 7).
The DGHE-IU maintained an active dialogue with the MoF and BAPPENAS on the
evolving policy on financing grants to the HEls. Once the MoF decided that public HEls
could not receive block-grants as envisioned by the project design, DGHE worked with
the HEls to revise the financial flows necessary to maintain progress in project
implementation.
73.   The later stages of the project, with the proactive assistance of the Bank
procurement staff, the DGHE was able to improve and accelerate the project's
procurement process. Additional qualified staff at the DGHE level and improved advice
to the HEls on the writing and submitting of procurement documentation sped up the
process, and with the improved and timelier Bank review process, procurement improved
considerately by the end of the project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on the discussion above, overall borrower performance is moderately satisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned
74.   Lesson One: Project design that allows for flexibility in how grants to different
types and sizes of HEls are made is an effective way of strengthening quality and
increasing management capacity. The design of the I-MHERE project allowed for various
financing schemes for different types of public and private, comprehensive and teacher
training institutions and was flexible enough to respond to major changes in the MoEC
and MoF policy changes on competitive block grants. The Bank's sustained involvement
over the life of the project in not only the implementation of the project activities at the
HEI level but in the policy dialogue at the ministerial level has had a probable impact on
the content and direction of the second Higher Education Law passed in 2012.
22


﻿75.   Lesson Two: Institutional autonomy of Higher Education Institutions is a
complicated goal, requiring substantial and often difficult and always lengthy legal,
financial and accreditation changes. Instead of focusing on autonomy as a goal, the
monitoring framework could have explored indicators related to governance and
accountability instead.
76.   Lesson Three: Project outcome indicators should not be based on the results
of a political process over which the project has no control. This project focused on
institutional and not political changes (aside from the passage of a higher education law),
and was largely successful in bringing about these institutional changes.
77.   Lesson Four: Clear definitions of indicators and the data to be collected, and
the methods of collections have to be established early and consistently used during
the implementation of the project. This means that training focused on this issue must
be continuous and a member of the Bank's task team must have an ongoing and
consistent responsibility for monitoring this process. An agreed upon definition of
disadvantaged students eligible for scholarships was never fully achieved causing
confusion throughout the implementation of the project in assessing the one poverty
indicator in the project.
78.   Lesson Five: Scholarships to disadvantaged students require accurate and
effective targeting strategies in identifying good candidates. In this project, inadequate
thought was given at preparation as to the target of such scholarships and the mechanism
to be followed to identify and support such disadvantaged students.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
79.   In general, the I-MHERE project has successfully achieved the majority of
intended outcomes both in the level of DGHE and in the level of HEls (grantees). It is
represented by the achievement of most Performance Indicators. However, the flip flop of
the fundamental regulatory framework used as the basis of the project design, has
significantly affected the effectiveness of the intervention, especially the concept of
institutional higher education autonomy and fund channeling.
80.   The concept of National Information System on Higher Education (NISHE) has
been adopted and fully incorporated in the Law 12/2012 as PDPT (Pangkalan Data
Perguruan Tinggi). The adoption into the law provides a legal foundation to impose the
requirement to actively participate in the NISHE (PDPT).
81.   In the B1 scheme, the I-MHERE project introduced a full fledge scholarship
scheme for students with disadvantaged economic background. This scheme has been
adopted by the DGHE and expanded the coverage into a nationwide scholarship program
called Bidik Misi, which at present covers 92,000 recipients.
23


﻿82.   The performance based funding, as experimented in the component B (B.2C), is
expected as one alternative of funding scheme to empower the quality education of
established HEls. However, it is not suitable at this time unless the required set of
regulations for fund channeling is available and there is adequate legal infrastructure for
institutional autonomy.
83.   Most procurement processes were delayed due to the internal problem of the
grantees and delay of getting the No Objection Letter (NOL) from the World Bank for
prior review procurement packages. The internal problem arises as the integration of the
procurement process into procurement service unit (ULP). The procurement committees
from ULP used to work under the Gol's guidelines (Perpres 54) and hence are less
familiar with the WB's guidelines.
84.   The integration  of project implementation  into the existing  institution
management process is very useful to develop a capacity building for the institution
management, especially for procurement process and financial management. However, it
is sometimes counter-productive since it causes the delay of procurement processes and
budget disbursements.
85.   Despite some obstacles, challenges were resolved during project implementation.
Excellent communication between DGHE-IU, HEI-lUs and the Bank's Task Team
Leader of the I-MHERE project was a key element for the success of the project.
(b) Co-financiers
There were no co-financiers to comment on this project.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
There were no other partners or stakeholders to comment on the project.
24


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component
Appraisal Estimate  Actual / Latest    Percentage of
Components       (US$ millions)       Estimate          Appraisal
(US$ millions)
1. Higher Education
System Reform and         8,811              2,121             24.1%
Oversight
2. Grants to Improve
Academic Quality                                               84.5%
and Institutional
Performance
3. Project
Managjemet                7,849              7,679             97.8%
Management
Total Financing         114,537             92,531             80.8%
(b) Financing
Source of     Type of co-    Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
estimate      Estimate
funds        financing      etmeEsiae                    Appraisal
(US$ millions)  (US$ millions)
IDA            Credit             30,000         29,955         98.5%
IBRD           Loan               50,000         40,170         80.3%
Government     Counterpart        34,537         22,406         64.9%
Total                            114,537         92,531        80.8%
25


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
1.    This section describes the outputs of I-MHERE's three project components: (i)
reform and oversight of the higher education system; (ii) grants to improve academic
quality and institutional performance; and (iii) project management. The project had a
total baseline cost of US$114,537,000, with funding anticipated from IDA (26.2 percent),
IBRD (43.7 percent), and Gol (30.2 percent) 1. In 2012, there was cancellation of
US$6,879,002, which reduced total costs to US$107,658,000. The assessment of outputs
by components is based on the Aides Memoire, ISRs, Gol ICR, and the ICR mission in
February and March of 2013. Costs by component and funding sources are included in
Annex Table 2.11.
2.     Component 1: Higher education reform and oversight. This component was
intended to support the government in implementing the Higher Education Long-Term
Strategy (HELTS) by refining the legal framework for higher education, strengthening
the management and administration of the DGHE, assisting the Higher Education Board
of Accreditation (BAN-PT) to develop an institutional accreditation program, and
developing a strategy to revitalize Open University, Indonesia's largest institution of
continuing education.
3.     At appraisal, Component I was estimated to cost US$8,811,000, or 7.7 percent of
the total project cost. Some activities in Component 1 also received support outside of
project funding, including: (i) TA to support development of the higher education law
from the Asian Development Bank (ADB); (ii) policy studies financed by Basic
Education Capacity Trust Fund (BEC-TF); (iii) workshop and TA for accreditation of
health professional study programs from Health Professional Education Quality (HPEQ),
a World Bank project; and (iv) development of teacher in-service and pre-service training
and certification from BERMUTU, a World Bank project.
4.     The impact of Component I was measured by the following PDO indicators: (i)
draft law on education institutions (BHP) is passed by 2010; (ii) National Information
System for Higher Education (NISHE) develops the capability to conduct and report on
regular graduate tracer studies by Project Closing Date; (iii) institutional accreditation is
awarded to five percent of all public HEls; and (iv) comprehensive process evaluation of
line item financing, competitive grants, and performance-based contracting is completed
by Project Closing Date.
5.     Sub-component 1.1: Modernization of higher education sector oversight and
management. This sub-component was designed to address key capacity constraints in
the oversight and management of the higher education system and facilitate the move
17 Total funding for the project and its components is reported from Annex Table 5.2 of the PAD: Project costs by
financier. Figures include price and physical contingencies, and therefore conflict slightly with totals reported in the
text of the PAD.
26


﻿toward more effective institutional autonomy through five activities: (i) developing a
revised legal framework for higher education governance, financial management, and
personnel management; (ii) improving financial management both within DGHE and
within public HEls; (iii) expanding the data collection capacity of the National
Information System for Higher Education (NISHE); (iv) developing a strategy for scaling
up reforms based on evidence of their effectiveness, with particular attention given to
financing innovations; and (v) provision of capacity building support to global distance
learning centers established under Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN), which
was added at mid-term. The cost of sub-component 1.1 was US$4,423,000 at appraisal,
of which 8.6 percent was spent.
6.     Revised legal framework. I-MHERE supported the development of the new
Higher Education law through a study for a comprehensive legal framework and drafting
of the legal documents. At times, BEC-TF informed this policy dialogue on the higher
education law through the following activities: (i) a joint DGHE and BAPPENAS Higher
Education and Governance and Finance Study trip to Thailand in 2010; (ii) a series of
Higher Education Reform Seminars in 2011; (iii) an Education Sector Assessment report
in early 2010 on Higher Education Financing; and (iv) a report on Higher Education
Financing to the Deputy Minister, MoEC, in 2011.
7.      The new higher education law was necessary to address conflicting provisions in
education, finance, treasury, civil service, and administration laws that prevented
autonomous institutions from fully implementing reforms in a sustainable manner. A
draft law for HEls as autonomous legal entities was first submitted to Parliament in 2006
and approved in December 2008.         The President signed the draft into the law      as
Education Legal Entity Law (Law 9/2009) in 2009, well ahead of the date of completion
envisioned during project design stage. Only a year later, the Constitutional Court
revoked Law 9/2009 in March 2010, with the general view that autonomy in the law was
seen to represent the commercialization of education and potentially impose a financial
burden on communities1s. However, the development process of Law 9/2009 generated
commitment to its principles in the higher education community and a revised law with
broader scope, stronger support from the higher education community and Parliament,
and provisions to address equity concerns raised by Law 9/2009 was signed into law in
August 2012 as Law 12/201219.
18 The Constitutional Court cited the following specific reasons for rejection: (i) lack of juridical clarity, objective, and
alignment with existing laws; (ii) overly optimistic assumptions with regard to management and financing capacities of
higher education institutions; (iii) potential of a high level of autonomy for many individual education institutions to
lead to underfunding and low quality; (iv) weak alignment of principles to the goals of the national education system;
and (v) possibility to apply the "not for profit" principle for education institutions in other forms.
19 For example, the new law requires that 20 percent of students at each HEI should come from disadvantaged
backgrounds with support from scholarships, fee waivers, and student loans. The new law also includes a cap of one-
third as the maximum amount of operational cost that an HEI can recover from student fees.
27


﻿8.    The new Law 12/2012 has the potential to make significant progress toward
expanded autonomy and enhanced accountability for Indonesian HEls. However, the
extent to which this intent will be realized depends on the development of the regulatory
framework to guide the operation of the law, which will involve 31 Ministerial Decrees
and 11 Government Regulations over the next year. In addition, Law 12/2012 is
undergoing judicial review due in part to reactions from private universities, students, and
non-government organizations, but resistance to Law 12/2012 is not as strong as it was
for Law 9/2009, and it is not expected to result in a repeal of the entire law. According to
senior leadership at the DGHE, the exercise to develop the legal framework to promote
broader autonomy has also shifted the perspective of HEI leadership toward one that
values the role of autonomy in improving efficiency and responsiveness in higher
education. Although Law 12/2012 remains to be operationalized and to overcome legal
challenges, the indicator as described in the PAD of passing a draft law on education
institutions has been met.
9.    Improved financial management. I-MHERE support made an effort to build the
necessary capacity to manage a decentralized education system through training at
government (DGHE) and institutional (HEI) levels in the areas of strategic planning,
financial management, and human resources management. At the government level, a
study for modernizing the oversight and management functions of DGHE, Restructuring
the central authority for higher education in Indonesia, influenced the restructuring of
DGHE to move from a centralized planning and implementation unit to one of
monitoring and evaluation and quality assurance. However, other efforts to provide TA
directly to DGHE experienced long delays: after initially filling procurement and
financial management positions in 2007, DGHE-IU encountered difficulty in recruiting
additional qualified procurement and financial management consultants until the end of
the project, although the unit was able to informally second senior staff to fill these roles
at times.
10.   Efforts in capacity building at the institutional level were initiated toward the end
of the project with a Component 2 grant to the Bandung Institute of Technology (ITB) in
the amount of US$325,000 to develop a project management facility to train university
staff managing procurement units. As of November 2011, all funds had been disbursed
and half of funds had been expended. ITB has completed production and review of
training modules and a pilot of a procurement training module. However, the Bank has
not assessed the modules for the international training, so related activities have not
begun yet.
11.   Expanding data collection capacity. The project supported the expansion and
improvement of NISHE and established the first national graduate tracer study, which
falls short of the intended institutionalization of the tracer study and labor market
analyses of higher education graduates. A data collection blueprint for the NISHE
(known as PDPT) was completed in 2008 and operational by 2010, which allowed the
NISHE to collect regular information from HEls on staff, students, infrastructure, and
facilities. The tracer study has experienced delays (up to five years) due to difficulties in
identifying a firm to design the survey as well as persistent doubts of the Bank on the
28


﻿quality of the study and its potential to yield comparable information that will be useful at
the HEI or national level. However, the tracer study has been designed and data has been
collected at 23 universities who received funding to as a pilot activity to implement the
survey in November 2012, one month before project closing. Results are currently
undergoing analysis.
12.   Strategy for scaling up reforms. A comprehensive process evaluation of line
item financing, competitive grants, and performance-based contracting was not carried
out. DGHE executed a study of competitive grants in Indonesia (Center, DUE, QUE,
TPSDP, PHK, and I-MHERE), but the line item study was not done because a similar
study had been completed prior to the start of the project. In 2009, MOF enforced an
earlier regulation that prohibited the use of block-grants to public institutions, which
made the study of performance-based contracts along the intended lines difficult because
they were not able to be implemented. Therefore, the report on the comparative
advantages of different funding mechanisms was not delivered due to a combination of
design and policy factors, and is truly a missed opportunity in that the DGHE could have
advanced international understanding of the competitive financing process.
13.   Capacity building support to GDLN centers. Added at mid-term, this activity
was to leverage training received through the Bank-supported GDLN project to provide a
wider set of educational offerings. The project also supported the further development of
fiber optic data connections to a network of over 200 public and private universities
(INHERENT). Several capacity building workshops took place on the following topics:
(i) professional management; (ii) development of blended learning; and (iii) content
development for distance learning. In addition, Distance Learning Center (DLC)
equipment was procured for six new DLCs.
14.   Sub-component 1.2: Supporting a transition in the quality assurance system
to emphasize institutional accreditation and licensing of professional fields. This
sub-component was designed to strengthen the existing quality assurance system in
higher education and help transition from emphasizing the accreditation of study
programs to emphasizing the accreditation of overall institutions. There were five
activities planned in this sub-component: (i) executing participatory action planning to
explain the changes in the quality assurance system; (ii) increasing the financial
autonomy of the quality assurance system; (iii) strengthening HEI management and
administration to help them complete the institutional accreditation process; (iv)
strengthening professional associations to assume a key role in the assessment process
needed for licensing fields; and (v) supporting the development of teacher certification.
The cost of sub-component 1.2 was US$484,000 at appraisal, of which 39.3 percent was
spent. ADB activities, with a grant of US$88,000 through 2007, complemented this I-
MHERE activity.
15.   Participatory action planning. The project supported consultation with
stakeholders to develop the accreditation instrument. First, the accreditation board (BAN-
PT) completed a benchmarking exercise in New Zealand, Australia, the United States,
and Canada in 2007 to develop the instrument for accreditation of HEls (Akreditasi
29


﻿Institusi Perguruan Tinggi, AIPT) in consultation with technical experts. Next, HEI
leaders were invited to provide feedback on the instrument before it was tested at
different types of universities. After further review by BAN-PT, the final AIPT was
approved and implemented in 2007. Following two years of implementation in 2009,
MONE requested that BAN-PT pause the accreditation process to re-evaluate the
instrument, so five national workshops were held to gather input from stakeholders and
further refine the accreditation instrument. After this multi-year and participatory process,
the final AIPT instrument, including changes from portfolio-based assessment to a
checklist, was approved in 2011.
16.   Increasing the financial autonomy of the quality assurance system. I-MHERE
support was not needed in this activity due to a policy change during implementation. At
the time of project design, BAN-PT needed assistance in developing a fee structure and
financial management system in order to make the accreditation system sustainable.
However, a 2007 Ministerial Decree that guaranteed government financial support to
BAN-PT made the proposed study to investigate restructuring as an option to assure
financial autonomy irrelevant. In response to changing policy environment, this activity
was not executed.
17.   Strengthen HEI management and administration to help them complete the
institutional accreditation process. I-MHERE provided support for HEls to prepare for
the accreditation process in the areas of self-evaluation at the study program and
institutional levels, program planning informed by self-evaluations, data and information
systems, and annual evaluation conducted by internal quality assurance units and external
assessors. BAN-PT also provided assistance to HEls for developing documents for the
accreditation process using Gol funds.
18.   As of early 2013, BAN-PT awarded accreditation to 52 public universities and 42
private universities out of a total 3,200 universities. In terms of quality, DGHE reported
that 11 HEls received an "A" (meeting international standards), 44 received a "B"
(meeting national standards), and 39 received a "C" (meeting local standards). The
related indicator as described in the Loan Agreement and used in the submitted ISRs was
5 percent of public HEls accredited by the end of the project. This target was exceed with
a highly satisfactory outcome with 52 of 92 (55 percent) of public HEls receiving
institutional accreditation. With a two-year pause in accreditation at the request of
MONE, this achievement is noteworthy.
19.   However, it is not clear from the project documents whether this indicator was
intended to also capture results for private HEls. The PAD's Results Framework as well
as the Restructuring Paper includes both public and private HEls as the target, which
would have meant 5 percent of at least 3,200 HEls. In discussion with the Task Team it is
evident that the intent of the accreditation activity supported by the project was to
institutionalize a process of quality assessment for all HEls, public and private, but only
to use as an achievable target the public HEls. At the time of preparation, it was judged
that the public HEls were, on average, of higher quality than the large number of private
HEls and therefore the task of accreditation and setting in place an accreditation system
30


﻿would be more effectively and efficiently achieved within the smaller public HEI
community rather than the full public and private HEI environment.
20.   Build the capacity of professional associations for assessment role for
licensing fields. Over the course of the project, three domestic consultants and one
international consultant provided TA to develop study program accreditation with
professional associations in key professional fields of medicine, accounting, and
engineering. In collaboration with the Indonesian Association of Accountant (IAI), the
Pharmacy Higher Education Association, and the Indonesia Association of Pharmacists,
BAN-PT developed and implemented accreditation instruments for Accounting and
Pharmacy study programs, with 24 and 13 study programs accredited, respectively. In
addition, BAN-PT has developed accreditation instruments for the fields of Engineering
and Medicine and Dentistry, and proposed future actions toward implementation include
establishing an independent engineering accreditation board with support from the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and piloting Medicine and Dentistry
instruments with support from BAN-PT and World Bank HPEQ project. Therefore, at
project close, professional associations had the capacity to assess Pharmacy and
Accounting study programs, but not medicine and engineering as proposed.
21.   Build capacity for development of teacher certification. I-MHERE provided
TA to advise on teacher certification, monitoring, and evaluation in December 2007.
However, after project design, teacher certification legislature was introduced and the
World Bank has worked with MONE to develop a parallel project that focuses on teacher
in-service and pre-service development leading to certification (BERMUTU), which was
responsible for related activities as of January 2010.
22.   Sub-component 1.3: Development and adoption of a comprehensive
revitalization plan for the Open University of Indonesia. This sub-component
supported development of a strategy and plan to modernize the governance, finance,
outreach, content, and delivery of the Open University of Indonesia (UT), the largest HEI
in the country and a key provider of distance education. Relevant activities include
studies, TA, stakeholder consultations, and capacity building. This sub-component was
estimated to cost US$3,904,000 at the time of appraisal.
23.   I-MHERE supported review of the UT Initial Strategic Plan 2005-2010. Senior
UT staff completed a comparative study through visits to leading distance education
institutions in Korea, India, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Thailand, South Africa,
Spain, and Turkey. Findings were disseminated through a series of workshops at UT's
central management and regional management levels as of December 2007. Considering
feedback from these workshops and DGHE's renewed focus on improving the quality of
teacher education, the final proposal included six proposed core programs: (i) curriculum
implementation of teacher education programs; (ii) ICT-based multimedia learning
materials; (iii) ICT-based student learning support services; (iv) ICT-based student
examination system; (v) ICT-based academic administration system; and (vi) ICT-based
internal management system.
31


﻿24.   Implementation of the six core programs began in 2008. However, progress was
constrained by delay of program finalization as well as Bank procedures such as
procurement approvals (including NOLs) and disbursements. As a result, in 2009, UT
and I-MHERE decided to fund procurement of computers and related equipment through
DIPA and training activities through I-MHERE. I-MHERE funded capacity building
through scholarships for four PhD degrees and one master's degree at Florida State
University to study the five core program subjects related to ICT. In addition, the project
funded overseas non-degree training for 14 participants in the subjects of tracer study
development, virtual teaching, online examinations, and pedagogy for online tutors.
25.   Rating of Component 1. The ICR rates Component 1 as moderately
satisfactory given significant progress toward higher education reform, but incomplete
achievement due to changes in the policy environment and implementation challenges.
The draft law on education institutions was first passed in 2009 and then a revised
version was passed in 2012, with pending repeal and implementation arrangements.
NISHE has developed an instrument for graduate tracer studies, but the study has not
been institutionalized. BAN-PT has made a successful transition to institutional
accreditation and was singular achievement of the project. The comparative study of
financing mechanisms did not occur, which in part can be attributed to changes in public
finance regulations.
26.   Component 2: Grants to improve academic quality and institutional
performance. This component was intended to support the implementation of HELTS by
improving the quality of higher education through targeted investments and by increasing
management capacity at HEls. This objective was pursued by an expansion of
competitive grants to HEls and by an introduction of management strengthening grants
and performance-based contracts. At appraisal, Component 2 was estimated to cost
US$97,877,000, or 85.5 percent of total project cost. In addition, HEI recipients for B.1,
B.2.b, and B.2.c grants were required to provide 8 percent in matching funds.
27.   This component includes four grant windows: (i) competitive grants to public and
private HEls, referred to as B. 1 in project documents and ICR; (ii) competitive grants for
strengthening institutional management in non-autonomous public HEls, referred to as
B.2.a in project documents and ICR; (iii) proposal-based grants for strengthening
institutional management at autonomous public HEls, referred to as B.2.b in project
documents and ICR; and (iv) performance-based contracts (PBC) grants for autonomous
HEls, referred to as B.2.c in project documents and ICR. While B.1 and B.2.c grants are
oriented toward improving academic quality, B.2.a and B.2.b focus on strengthening
institutional management.
28.   Before describing the outputs of Component 2, it is important to understand a few
systemic issues that affected the potential of grants to be implemented effectively before
a description of outcomes for each grant window. First, in 2010, the Constitutional Court
revoked the 9/2009 BHP Law on autonomy for higher education institutions. Therefore,
activities in Component 2 that were designed to strengthen management and capacity at
the HEI level to prepare for autonomy (B.2.a and B.2.b grants) needed reorientation.
32


﻿After the law was revoked, the activity shifted to support preparations for HEls to
become BLU, or achieve financial autonomy. Although it was conceptually simple to
switch targets and objectives, it was not easily implemented at the HEI level, especially
for B.2.a grantees. Further delays occurred from HEI leadership less motivated to move
toward autonomy.
29.    Also affecting implementation, MOF enforced a previous regulation to prohibit
the use block-grants in 200920 for public HEls. This change channeled funding to grantees
through line items on the HEI's annual budget (DIPA) instead of directly to a special
account, which was the intended design for competitive funding mechanisms. Therefore,
grant beneficiaries (study programs or institutional management) had to submit a request
to the university financial manager to initiate any new activity. Further delays were
caused because requests from HEls for DIPA funding had to be submitted a year in
advance of the budget allocation. These delays due to DIPA funding affected
implementation of all grant types, but especially the B.2.c performance-based contracts as
designed.
30.    Further complicating execution of grants, HEls often experienced delays in
procurement as a result of multiple review processes, which involved approvals from the
HEI's procurement unit, DGHE-IU, and the World Bank. HEI procurement teams were
not confident in applying Bank procurement guidelines, despite annual three-day
trainings. In addition, delays in procurement put HEls at risk of having to ask for the I-
MHERE funding more than once, as unspent DIPA funds were lost if not spent by the
end of the year. Procurement delays were experienced by all grantees to some extent,
especially B. 1 grant recipients.
31.    The impact of Component 2 was measured by the following PDO          and
Intermediate Indicators: (i) unqualified opinion awarded by external auditors on financial
audits to five public HEls; (ii) 90 percent of procurement carried out by the participating
institutions is awarded within the bid validity period; (iii) 50 percent of procurement staff
of participating institutions is certified in accordance with national certification policy in
existence in 2010; (iv) all participating institutions publish records of contracted unit
rates for goods and major construction materials above US$50,000 equivalent; (v)
quality: a 5 percent increase in the average GPA of students graduating from B. 1 grant
recipients; (vi) relevance: a 10 percent reduction in the time taken to find first
employment for graduates from the B.1 grant recipients; (vii) efficiency: a 10 percent
reduction effort in the time to graduate (to become 54 months) by students in the B.1
grant recipients; and (viii) equity: a 50 percent increase in the number of students from
low income families (lowest quintile) receiving scholarships in B. 1 grant recipients from
a baseline of 8 to 12 percent of the student population.
20 According to the MoF, the block-grant funding mechanism for public institutions was initially created for
social assistance (bansos) for use during natural disasters.
33


﻿32.    Sub-component 2.1: Competitive grants to public and private HEls. This sub-
component supported the introduction of competitive grants to public and private
institutions to fund promising proposals for enhancing the quality of study programs in
identified fields (engineering, sciences, and teacher training) and for increasing the
employment of HEI graduates. The cost at appraisal was US$68,341,000, of which 72
percent was spent. There was one grant window in this sub-component (B.1) for
competitive grants to improve quality of education.
33.    The competitive review process for the competitive B.1 grants was mostly
successful. All public HEls aside from BHMNs and private HEls offering teacher
training were invited to apply. The selection process required three stages for first two
batches (initial proposal, full proposal, and site visit) and two stages for last two batches
(full proposal and site visit) due to time limitations and a decreased number of eligible
institutions. There was an effort to stratify competition to make sure HEls of varying
levels of development received grants, but instead, competition tiered by the type of
institution (public polytechnics, public art institutes, HEls offering teacher training, other
public HEls), so the level of competitiveness varied a great deal between groups
depending on how many universities exist of each type. In addition, the review panel did
not always differentiate between tiers during evaluation.
34.    HEls were selected on the basis of plans to improve quality and relevance in two
or three study programs. The method of study program selection varied, as funding was
limited to programs without funding from other sources, and therefore perhaps not
highest quality study programs. However, this requirement helped to provide support
where it may have been needed most. In addition to quality and relevance activities, all
proposals were required to have an equity component to recruit underprivileged or under-
represented students with scholarships and carry out community development activities.
To be eligible, HEls needed to demonstrate management, financial, and procurement
capacity and contribute 8 percent of funding in matching funds.
35.    The B.1 competitive grants were awarded in four batches, one more batch than
was intended in project design in reaction to a low number of grants awarded in the first
two batches due to low quality of proposals and high standards of reviewers. At design, it
was expected that 28 grants would be awarded with a value of US$51.32 million over
three rounds of competition, and during the project, 38 grants totaling US$42.51 million
were awarded. The higher number of grants and lower total amount of funding are due to
low awards in first rounds and concerns about ability of HEls to absorb large amounts of
additional funds. By HEI type, six grants were awarded to polytechnics, one grant was
awarded to a public art academy, 13 grants were awarded to public and private teacher
training institutes, and 18 were awarded to other public HEls. By study program, the
highest share (32 percent) of B.1 grants went to teacher training, followed by natural
sciences, agriculture, and engineering (see Figure 1).
34


﻿Figure 1. Distribution of B.1 grants by study program
Art craft  Economics Law
3%         3%    3%
Technology
7%
Livestock and
fisheries
10%
Source: DGHE database (2013).
36.    There were seven eligible B.1 grant cost components: (i) staff development; (ii)
procurement of goods; (iii) technical assistance; (iv) research and studies; (v) community
development; (vi) promotional activity; and (vii) scholarship. Various activities were
implemented in each cost component.
37.    Staff development supported domestic degrees and domestic or international non-
degree training. Domestic degrees provided funding to 308 staff for Master's (S2) or
Doctoral (S3) degrees out of a target of 409 (75 percent achieved). Achievement of
domestic degrees was lower than the target because some staff accepted into the program
dropped out in favor of other offers to study at more attractive universities or to receive
better financial support. Non-degree training was easier to implement, resulting in 2,498
man months of domestic training and internships (95 percent of the target) and 462 man
months of international training and internships (89 percent of the target).
38.    Domestic and international Technical Assistance helped grantees obtain necessary
knowledge and skills for implementing new programs to improve quality of education,
including management of laboratories. This proved difficult to implement for several
reasons: (i) TA often conflicted with teaching staff's schedules; (ii) recruitment of
suitable TA candidates was challenging; and (iii) compliance with civil service
regulations for domestic TA was complicated. In addition, it was much more difficult to
procure international TA due to availability of consultants and complex procurement
process. In total, 441 consultants provided domestic TA (73 percent of target) and 16
consultants provided international TA (46 percent of target).
39.    Research and Studies provided grants to professors and students. Research grants
were awarded competitively to academic staff to carry out, disseminate, and publish
research that would improve the quality and relevance of study programs. These grants
35


﻿were successfully awarded to support 1,450 research projects, 5 percent more than the
target. Student grants were awarded competitively to 4,047 final year projects (97 percent
of target), which directly reduced the length of time to graduate as funding for these
projects often delays completion of a study program.
40.    Community Development was intended to strengthen linkages between higher
education institutions and stakeholders and increase entrepreneurial activity at HEls
through income-generating projects that addressed social problems in the community.
Disbursement in this component was far below the target, as it was often difficult to find
a partner in the community and HEls had little experience in this type of activity.
However, 151 activities took place (18 percent more than the initial target), including
activities in agriculture, chemistry, medicine, animal husbandry, fisheries, science
education, and art and design. These events were on a smaller scale than had been
intended.
41.    Procurement of Goods covered laboratory equipment, furniture, and textbooks
and journals. All grantees reported problems getting no objections from the Bank, and
most procurement was completed one year behind schedule. However, almost all of the
funds in this category were disbursed by the end of the project, with the best results in
equipment (98 percent spent) and the lowest result in textbooks (66 percent spent) due to
problems with textbook suppliers. Some HEls noted that the grant allowed the institution
to procure sophisticated technical equipment internationally that would not have been
possible otherwise.
42.    Promotional activity was intended to recruit senior secondary school students
from disadvantaged families. HEls conducted activities to inform these students about
tertiary education opportunities and provided funds for registration costs. However, the
activity was only funded in first year of the grant and individual HEls were responsible
for funding over the next years, so not all HEls proposed this activity. Disbursement was
low, at 55 percent of Bank funds spent, and just 69 out of a target of 89 activities were
achieved.
43.    Scholarships were intended to target high school graduates, not applicants or
current students, from low-income and disadvantaged families. However, a DGHE
Scholarship Study reports that at least one-third of recipients were 21 years of age or
older, which may mean that they were recruited from within the HEI. In addition,
although is difficult to obtain a reliable estimate of recipients' income level, the education
level of recipients' parents indicates that at least 60 percent of them are probably not
from the lowest income quintile as intended. Students received a total of IDR250,000 per
month (adjusted to IDR400,000 at project closing). However, as early as 2007, this
amount was considered too low, especially in comparison to the DGHE's full scholarship
program (bidik misi), which provided more attractive financing of IDR16,000,000
annually. In addition, these students were exempt from all fees (including tuition,
laboratory, induction program, infrastructure development). However, approximately 47
percent did not receive tuition waivers, according to DGHE. In total, 3,204 scholarships
36


﻿were provided, below the target of 3,485, because some students failed to complete study
and because over 92,000 receive support from the DGHE program.
44.    Intermediate outcome indicators associated with sub-component 2.1 were mostly
achieved (see Annex Table 2.1), although some were achieved before the grants were
spent. The lag of disbursement behind demonstrated improvements in performance raises
questions about the link between the grant and improvements in the indicators. Average
GPA rose from a baseline of 2.99 to a result of 3.17, more than a 5 percent change
envisioned at project design, which could be related to increases in training and research
by professors. Average time to graduate fell from 56.68 months to 51.16 months, meeting
the 10 percent reduction goal. Time to graduate was mostly reduced through funding for
the final year project (skripsi), which often takes a long time to complete due to lack of
financing. Average time to get first job fell from a baseline of 8.49 months to 5.82
months, which is well below the 10 percent reduction goal from project design. Time to
employment can be affected by many factors outside of the project or HEI, including the
trends in the labor market, so this indicator is an imperfect second best measurement of
learning outcomes at the tertiary level. Lastly, the equity indicator appears to have been
met, but not necessarily for students in the lowest income quintile as intended at project
design.
Annex Table 2.1. Achievement of Key Performance Indicators
Intermediate outcome                    Baseline    Target    Result    Change
Quality: Average GPA                       2.99       3.14       3.17     6.0%
Efficiency: Average time to graduate      56.68      51.02      51.16      10%
(months)
Relevance: Average time to get first job    8.49       7.64      5.82      31%
(months)
Equity: Percentage of students receiving     8%       12%        12%       50%
scholarships*
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013) and authors' calculations.
*Percentage of students receiving scholarships represents the entire HEI student population, whereas other
indicators only reflect those enrolled in study programs that received funding. The indicator in the PAD
requires that these students come from the lowest income quintile, but it is unclear whether these students
receiving scholarships were also poor.
45.    There were some monitoring issues associated with the performance indicators
throughout the project. First, grantees often reported targets quantitatively, even for
qualitative goals, even after Bank requests to include more analysis. For example,
procurement of laboratory equipment would be reported as "50 percent complete", which
does not provide useful information on progress such as whether the Bank has provided a
no objection letter to the annual procurement plan, for example. When progress was
made, grantees rarely described why improvements in the indicators had occurred. In
addition, there are signs that grantees did not interpret the indicators in a way that was
consistent what they were intended to measure. The equity indicator proved particularly
problematic, as it seems that HEls reported data on the number of students receiving
scholarships as a share of the student body, regardless of whether students were from the
lowest income quintile.
37


﻿46.   Across all B.1 grant components, a total of US$51,884,844 was allocated in
grants of which 85 percent was spent (see Annex Table 2.2 for details). The highest
allocation went to Procurement of Goods, followed by Staff Development and Research
and Studies. More than 90 percent of funds were spent in Procurement and Research and
Studies, but Technical Assistance, Promotional Activities, and Community Development
were more challenging to spend.
Annex Table 2.2. Allocations and expenditures of B.1 grant recipients, by
nature of expenditure
Expenditure
Original               as a share of
allocation  Expenditure   original
allocation
1. Staff development             11,777,179   8,770,542      74%
Domestic degree                 4,865,463   3,152,501      65%
Domestic non-degree             3,157,321   2,994,417      95%
Overseas non-degree            3,754,395    2,623,624      70%
2. Procurement of goods          25,655,419  22,977,566      90%
Equipment                      18,293,046  17,983,218      98%
Furniture                       2,557,187   1,833,810      72%
Textbooks and journals         4,805,186    3,160,538      66%
3. Technical Assistance           3,076,891   1,706,569      55%
Domestic Technical Assistance   1,949,391   1,370,474      70%
International Technical
Assistance                      1,127,500     336,095      30%
4. Research and studies           6,874,081   6,625,736      96%
Research grants                 4,310,988   4,618,801     107%
Student grants                  2,563,093   2,006,935      78%
5. Community Development          1,244,807     775,520      62%
6. Promotional Activity            405,822      230,445      57%
7. Scholarship                    2,850,645   2,848,618     100%
Total                            51,884,844  43,934,996      85%
Source: DHGE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
47.   Even with success of some Intermediate Outcome Indicators, B.1 grant recipients
encountered some serious challenges to implementation due to MoF changes to the
funding mechanism and procurement issues. In addition, the grants were managed by
staff in existing units in an effort to build lasting capacity. However, in practice, this
meant that the person in charge often reported double duties and was very busy. As a
result, most grants were not completed in the intended four-year timeline (intended to
follow the cycle of undergraduate programs) and 36 out of 38 grant recipients asked for
extensions.
48.   Sub-component 2.2: Grants for promoting good governance in public HEIs
and initiation of performance-based contracts at autonomous HEls. This sub-
38


﻿component aimed to develop a system of autonomous public HEls with good governance
practices and organizational cultures that focus on educational quality, institutional
efficiency, and active efforts to increase the participation of disadvantaged students. The
cost at appraisal was US$29,536,000.
49.   There were three grant windows in this sub-component: (i) competitive grants for
strengthening institutional management in non-autonomous public HEls, B.2.a; (ii)
proposal-based grants for strengthening institutional management at autonomous public
HEls, B.2.b; and (iii) performance-based contracts (PBC) grants for autonomous HEls,
B.2.c. All non-autonomous public HEls were eligible for B.2.a grants, and all
autonomous (BHMN) HEls were eligible for B.2.b and B.2.c grants. Autonomous HEls
were required to complete B.2.b grants as a prerequisite for receiving B.2.c grants.
50.   Competitive grants for strengthening  institutional management in non-
autonomous public HEls, B.2.a. This grant window provides support to non-autonomous
public HEls to improve management of finances, human resources, procurement, and
quality assurance so that they are better prepared to move toward autonomy and
institutional accreditation. A total of US$13,486,000 in funding was allocated to support
TA, training, and materials (especially hardware and software) of which 86 percent was
spent.
51.   The competitive selection process for the B.2.a grants was similar to the review
process for the B. 1 grants, with multiple proposal rounds that involved a full proposal and
a site visit with review by members of the Board of Higher Education. The first round of
competition was completed in November 2005, but due to low quality of proposals, only
one grant was awarded out of 39 proposals instead of the expected 14. Just like with the
B. 1 grants, the low number of awarded grants caused early delays in disbursement. In
response, the task team promoted better training of review panels for future rounds of
selection. In total, 29 grants were awarded out of a total of 115 proposals over three
batches of selection. This type of institutional strengthening grant was new to most HEls.
The B.2.a grants supported components of international and domestic technical assistance,
staff development (international and domestic non-degree training), IT infrastructure and
application systems, and policy studies.
52.   Technical assistance was provided for the purpose of improving the quality of
management and information systems. However, there was less domestic and
international TA than intended at project design, with 279 consultants provided TA out of
a target of 385 for domestic TA and 3 consultants provided TA out of a target of 8 for
international TA. It was difficult to find experts for the domestic TA because HEls were
prohibited from using a Government Officer (PNS), whereas the challenge to implement
international TA came from the procurement requirement of 3 CVs from qualified
candidates.
53.   Domestic and international non-degree training was provided as staff
development in the areas of institutional leadership, evidence-based decision-making,
long-term strategic planning, and procurement. As a tangible output, procurement
39


﻿officials became certified in national procurement procedures. However, training focused
on GOI procurement rules and regulations, not World Bank policies, which would have
facilitated project implementation. All grantees except one HEI were able to implement
staff development. Both domestic and international targets of 1,578 and 34 staff receiving
training, respectively, were met.
54.    IT infrastructure and software activities were intended to develop integrated
management information systems, which would improve governance in the move toward
autonomous institutions. All the funds in this activity were spent, but HEls reported that
it was very difficult to procure software due to problems with procurement processes for
the consultant to develop the software. Even so, these activities contributed to HEI efforts
to become BLU.
55.    Policy studies included activities to develop institutional instruments and standard
operating procedures (SOPs) that would prepare HEls to become BLU, a key output for
B.2.a grants. These basic instruments included: (i) an academic paper as initial proposal
to be BLU; (ii) a financial, procurement, and human resources management plan; (iii) an
integrated data system; and (iv) a strategic business plan. HEls also prepared internal
regulations and management procedures: bylaws, internal funding mechanisms for BLU,
an accounting charter, a strategic plan for IT, and basic policies for human resources
development.
56.    The PDO indicators associated with sub-component B.2.a were mostly achieved
(see Annex Table 2.3 for details), although there are some questions about how HEls
interpreted the indicators. For the first indicator, 86.2 percent of HEls report that 90
percent of procurement was awarded within the bid validity period. This achievement is
below the ambitious target of all HEls meeting this requirement. However, the ICR team
has concerns about how this indicator was interpreted by HEI-IUs, as many report
extreme delays with procurement. For the second indicator, 96.6 percent of HEls report
that 50 percent of procurement staff are certified in national procurement policies. This
can be considered a success, but the ICR team also heard of instances where staff
received the training, but were reluctant to become certified as they were unwilling to
take on responsibilities. For the third indicator, 82.8 percent of HEls report publishing
records of contracted unit rates for goods and major construction materials for contracts
above US$50,000. Although the target was not quite achieved, this represents a
substantial improvement over a baseline without this practice, aided in part by GOI's
establishment of the e-Procurement system.
40


﻿Annex Table 2.3. Achievement of Key Performance Indicators for B.2.a grantees
PDO indicators                                 Baseline    Target    Result
Ninety percent (90%) of procurement carried out by        All B.2.a  86.2%
the participating institutions is awarded within the  None  HEls
bid validity period.                                       comply
Fifty percent (50%) of procurement staff of               All B.2.a
participating universities are certified in accordance  Noe H%
with national certification policy in existence in         comly    comply
2010.
All participating institutions publish records of         All B.2.a
contracted unit rates for goods and major        None       HEls
construction materials for contracts above                 comply    comply
US$50,000 equivalent.
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013) and authors' calculations.
57.   In addition to PDO indicators, the development of standard operating procedures
(SOPs) for autonomous status through policy study activities was a major
accomplishment as judged by the ICR team. HEls have successfully developed internal
capacity in institutional planning as well as integrated management of physical assets,
human resources, and financial resources. The institutions now have the capability to
develop business plans and a financial system that comply with the national accounting
regulations. As a result, 14 HEls now follow the BLU financial scheme and  HEls have
received an unqualified audit status.
58.    The financial accomplishment of B.2.a grants was not as successful as its outputs
(see Annex Table 2.4 for details). The grants were in underspent by HEls, with 86.2
percent spent in total. International TA was the most underspent category, with 47
percent spent, due to difficulty with procurement requirements. International non-degree
training, by contrast, was spent most successfully. The activities were planned to be
implemented in two or three years, but almost all grantees requested extension in part due
to issues outside the project (use of DIPA and repeal of higher education autonomy law)
as well as serious procurement delays due to complexity of Bank procurement procedures.
41


﻿Annex Table 2.4. Allocations and expenditures by B.2.a grantees, by nature of
expenditure
Expenditure as a
Original                      share of original
allocation    Expenditure        allocation
Domestic technical
assistance                      1,867,072      1,525,583          82%
International technical
assistance                       160,500          75,138          47%
Domestic non-degree
training                        1,979,979      1,461,453          74%
International non-degree
training                         184,575         206,999         112%
Infrastructure                 4,885,385       4,944,304         101%
Software                       2,040,563       1,161,037          57%
Policy study                   2,368,198       2,261,709          96%
Total                         13,486,272      11,636,223          86%
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
59.    As previously mentioned, the revocation of Law 9/2009 by the constitution court
in 2010 caused confusion in implementation as these grants were designed to guide
public HEls toward autonomy. It was determined that the goals should be redirected
toward institutions adapting Public Service Entity (BLU) financial management status.
In addition, the 2009 decision by MoF to prohibit block-grants meant that B.2.a grants
also had to be channeled through the DIPA. Both factors caused delays in execution of
the grants.
60.   Proposal-based grants for strengthening institutional management at autonomous
public HEls, B.2.b. This grant window was available to autonomous HEls (BHMNs) for
management capacity grants that would make their autonomy more effective and prepare
them for implementing Performance-Based Contracts (PBC) through B.2.c grants. A total
of US$4,573,000 was awarded to B.2.b grantees, and US$3,626,000 was spent over the
course of the project to support development in five areas: (i) management information
systems and IT infrastructure; (ii) financial management systems; (iii) procurement
systems; (iv) human resources management; and (v) non-tuition revenue generation
related to academic activities.
61.    The selection of B.2.b grants was proposal-based, in that all seven autonomous
HEls (UI, UGM, ITB, IPB, USU, UPI, UNAIR)21 could receive funding when quality of
21In Indonesia, the seven BHMNs include the following HEls: (i) Universitas Indonesia, UI; (ii) Universitas
Gadjah Mada, UGM; (iii) Institut Teknologi Bandung, ITB; (iv) Institut Pertanian Bogor, IPB; (v) Institut
Sumatera Utara, USU; (vi) Universitas Pendidikan Indonesia, UPI; and (vii) Universitas Airlangga, UNAIR.
42


﻿proposal was deemed to be adequate, which was a lengthy process in some cases. To
apply, each BHMN was required to prepare a one to three year management capacity
plan with a self-evaluation and a transition plan as well as specific targets for indicators.
In addition, BHMNs had to establish structures required of autonomous HEls: (i) a Board
of Trustees (MWA); (ii) an Academic Senate (SAU); (iii) an Audit Board (Dewan
Audit); (iv) a Rector appointed by the MWA; and (v) a strategic plan. BHMNs were also
required to provide 8 percent of matching funds to demonstrate ownership and ensure
proper grant administration. Annual reviews of technical and financial audit to assess
capacity would inform whether B.2.b grantees were ready to receive B.2.c PBCs.
62.   The management aspects developed under B.2.b grants varied by BHMN
depending on its developmental stage. Most proposals included activities to strengthen
of internal management and governance systems, including financial management,
information systems, and human resources management (see Annex Table 2.5 for a list of
common indicators). Improvements and establishments of ICT infrastructure and
software application systems can be considered as a common key output of this grant
window.
Annex Table 2.5. Common indicators for B.2.b grantees by activity
*  Adoption and operation of double entry accounting standards;
*  Accurate student unit cost, particularly for regular S-I
program;
*  Accurate individual staff teaching load and unit cost;
*  Consolidated financial report, including all revenue received
through teaching, research, and service activities carried out by
all units;
*  Quarterly financial report;
*  Publication of annual financial report;
*  Annual budget plan (RKAT) based on accurate data and
Financial         information;
management      0   Comprehensive strategy against corruption;
*  Rector's decrees: (i) opening bank accounts only with written
authority from the Rector; (ii) organization structure needed to
manage financial matters, e.g. segregation functions of the unit
responsible for the issuing of the payment instructions and the
treasury unit; and (iii) all revenue collected and donations
received to be deposited only in the authorized university bank
accounts;
*  Function and operation of the Audit Board; and
*  Unqualified opinions awarded by external auditors on financial
audits.
*  Action plan to convert the status of all staff from civil service
Heun           into university employment;
resource.
*  Time bound human resources development plan; and
*  Necessary legal infrastructure on university employment.
43


﻿Annex Table 2.5. Common indicators for B.2.b grantees by activity (cont.)
*  Increased efficiency, transparency and accountability of
Procurement         procurement process;
.        *  Improvement of professionalism of staff involved in
a hysic        procurement; and
facilities
*  Baseline data on all physical infrastructure, including all
buildings, land and utilization of each individual space.
Revenue
*  Increased value of revenue generated from non-teaching
generating         academic activities, as well as the number of activities.
activities
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
63.   The PDO indicator associated with B.2.b grants, unqualified opinion awarded by
external auditors on financial audits to five public HEls, was met and exceeded. Over the
duration of the project, the number of eligible BHMN HEls grew from five to seven, and
all seven BHMN and B.2.b grant recipients received an unqualified audit opinion. All
B.2.b grant recipients except for one met their intended targets.
64.   B.2.b grants were awarded to all seven BHMNs by December 2006, and planned
for one or two years of implementation (three years in the case of Universitas Airlangga).
All B.2.b grantees requested extensions, mostly as a result of procurement delays and
integration of the funding into the DIPA. Implementation of four grants was completed
in 2009 and the remaining three grants were completed in 2010. This delay in
completion shortened the potential duration of the B.2.c PBC grants. In addition, all but
two of the B.2.b grant recipients have cancelled at least 20 percent of their funds, in part
due to funding of activities by their own sources. On average, just 79.3 percent of grants
were spent. Staff development and TA were the most underspent activities, with
approximately 35 percent of funds spent in each activity (see Annex Table 2.6 for details).
As with other types of grants, it was difficult to hire consultants to provide TA.
Annex Table 2.6. Allocations and expenditures of B.2.b grant recipients, by
nature of expenditure
Original                  Expenditure as a share
allocation                  of original allocation
IT and software           1,660,039     1,460,379         88%
System development        1,474,959     1,231,406         83%
Technical assistance       268,653        93,003          35%
Staff development          225,557        82,438          37%
Program development        943,758       759,453          80%
Total                     4,572,966     3,626,679         79%
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
65.   Performance-based contracts (PBC) grants for autonomous HEIs, B.2.c. This
grant window was available as a continuation of B.2.b grants to encourage autonomous
institutions to exercise their autonomy more effectively by giving them more
44


﻿discretionary authority over their budgets and increasing accountability for results. A
total of US$13,885,875 was awarded to B.2.c grantees and US$14,548,186 was spent
(105 percent of the total due to changes in the exchange rate).
66.    The B.2.c grants were intended to allocate funding based on agreed performance
to be delivered by the end of the contract period. This meant that no expenditure
components were specified, instead, grantees were required to propose indicators of
performance that would achieve the objectives of good governance, quality and relevance,
efficiency, and social responsibility. Performance targets varied by institution, but
commonly included the following indicators: (i) increasing revenue generated from non-
teaching academic activities; (ii) increasing research outputs (publications, patents,
citations, or production of S2 and S3 research); (iii) lowering the cost per graduate; (iv)
increasing selectivity of admission, particularly in graduate programs; (v) increasing
employability of Sl graduates; and (vi) supporting students from the underprivileged
population group with scholarships (see Annex Table 2.7 for details).
Annex Table 2.7. Common indicators for B.2.c performance-based contracts
International publications
Research            National publications
Citations
Admission rates
Student selectivity     Lengthiof study
Length of study
Revenue-generating activities  Revenue generated from outside sources
Employability          Months to employment after graduation
Social responsibility    Scholarships for underprivileged students
Source: DGHE data (2013).
67.    Performance-based funding was new to Indonesia, and a series of workshops with
TA from an international consultant were conducted to help BHMNs develop proposals.
Due to the small size of the grants, BHMNs chose a maximum of three study programs to
benefit from the grant, which were mostly from science and engineering disciplines. HEls
were required to contribute 8 percent in matching funds. Out of seven BHMNs receiving
45


﻿B.2.b grants, six prepared proposals and five were awarded grants (see Annex Table 2.8
for grant details)22.
Annex Table 2.8. B.2.c grant recipients
. . Grant awarded
BHMN                        Study program beneficiaries                 (US$)
Universitas Indonesia              Computer Science2,000,000
*  Mechanical Engineering
*  Pharmacy
Institut Teknologi Bandung     *   Civil Engineering                 2,990,112
*  Basic Sciences
*  Forestry
Universitas Gadjah Mada        *   Animal husbandry                  3,000,000
*  Biology
*  Veterinary
Institut Pertanian Bogor       *   Agronomy                          2,997,800
*  Post-harvest technology
*  Pharmacy
Universitas Airlangga          *   Veterinary                        2,897,963
*  Accounting
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
68.    It is difficult to summarize outputs across B.2.c grant recipients, as the specific
indicators varied by BH1N. However, all B.2.c grant recipients achieved at least 90
percent of key performance indicators in five areas: (i) research; (ii) student selectivity;
(iii) revenue generating activities; (iv) employability; and (v) social responsibility. In
addition, disbursement of these grants was the highest of any grant in Component 2,
indicating that the BH1Ns have developed the capacity to execute grants (see Annex
Table 2.9 for details).
69.    Aside from the relative successes in financial management and performance, the
implementation of the B.2.c grants faced serious challenges because block-allocation as
required by any PBC was prohibited by MoF. As a result, the B.2.c funding mechanism
was essentially the same as the mechanism for the other grantees as it was integrated in
the DIPA. Therefore, PBC contracts as intended in the project design were not
implemented. However, B.2.c grants were spent quite efficiently, with over 105 percent
of the amount awarded spent (see Annex Table 2.9). Part of the overrun was due to
changes in the exchange rate over the course of the project, but part was due to the fact
that the autonomous HEls were able to effectively execute the grants. Over 95 percent of
funds were spent in all expenditure categories except for TA.
22 UPI was not eligible for the B.2.c because it did not meet B.2.b targets.
46


﻿Annex Table 2.9. Allocations and expenditures of B.2.c grant recipients, by nature
of expenditure
Expenditure as a
aloin  Expenditure  share of original
allocationallocation
Procurement                       6,030,239   6,434,865        107%
System development                 594,439      662,093        111%
Technical assistance               184,000      167,498         91%
Staff development and scholarship  1,146,767  1,183,330        103%
Program development               1,137,354   1,090,327         96%
Incentive program                 4,515,941   4,755,317        105%
Networking and community
development                        259,405      254,757         98%
Total                            13,868,145  14,548,187        105%
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
70.   Rating of Component 2. The ICR team judges activities in Component 2 to be
moderately satisfactory. The development of SOPs for B.2.a grantees in a key success,
and B. 1 grantees demonstrated substantial improvements in quality, relevance, and
efficiency indicators. However, persistent delays in procurement and the inability to
implement true PBC limit achievement as intended in this component.
71.   On average, 88 percent of the allocated grants in Component 2 were spent,
although results differed by grant type. The B.2.b institutional strengthening of
autonomous universities were the least well-spent, with just 79 percent of allocated
amount used. By contrast, autonomous universities were able to spend all and more of the
performance-based funding (see Annex Table 2.10 for details).
47


﻿Annex Table 2.10. Awarded funds and expenditure, by grant recipient type
Grant recipient    Original    Addendum award      Outturn     Number of
type                award                                        grants
B.1                 42,504,923       42,759,767      85%           38
B.2.a               13,312,456       13,486,271      86%           29
B.2.b                4,572,966        4,572,966      79%            7
B.2.c               13,885,875       13,885,875     105%            5
Total               74,276,221       74,704,880      88%           79
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
Competitive Funding from 1995 to 2009 - An Historical Perspective
From 1995 to 2009 there was an expanding (from a base of almost zero) use of
competitive funding schemes employed by DGHE to channel financing to higher
education institutions (HEI). During this period competition based on self-evaluation,
peer reviewed proposals and service contracts with payments triggered by attainment
of agreed performance targets were used to disburse the equivalent of almost
USD570 million, of which some USD215 million was sourced from the
Government's own budget. The I-MHERE project was integral to this process, it was
the fourth in a series of World Bank projects used by DGHE to promote, refine and
expand competitive funding to the point where it approached 40 percent of the DGHE
annual development budget. However the close of the I-MHERE project saw the
almost total dismantling of the competitive funding modality. The Government ICR
states "Since the fiscal year of 2012 there has [have] been no new programs
implemented based on competition." (pp 60)
The Government ICR identifies four reasons; (i) administrative difficulties arising
from elimination of the block grant concept and incorporation of grants into DIPA; (ii)
the relatively high cost of selection, monitoring and evaluation, (iii) lack of legal
infrastructure to support institutional autonomy and (iv) a "recent political trend of re-
centralization...".
The dismantling of such a significant funding modality is usually triggered by a
convergence of events rather being able to be traced to a single cause; this ICR
contends that is the case here - although the ICR would reorder the reasons stated in
the Government ICR as follows:
Firstly the previously supportive political economy suffered a significant backlash
with the repeal of the 2009 higher education law where institutional autonomy was
successfully linked to commercialization by its opponents and by association
competitive funding was "discredited" as a commercial practice. Secondly in 2009 the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) were undertaking steps to tighten budget controls and
issued a decree that prohibited the use of "block grants" and required that all state
institutions receive funding only through the line item annual DIPA budget warrants.
These requirements in unison meant that for state HEI grant tranches previously linked
48


﻿to the attainment of contracted performance targets were no longer able to be
contingent on performance, removing a critical prerequisite for the operation of
competitive funding. Thirdly after a decade and a half of the "new paradigm era"
DGHE and MOEC policy was undergoing realignment and embarking on a more
centralized strategy.
The Government comment that a reason for discontinuing competitive grants is the
relatively high selection and monitoring and evaluation costs bears further scrutiny. A
factor here is the variable size of different types of grants and the relatively fixed
nature of the costs of selection and monitoring. This ICR suggests the lesson to be
drawn is that rather than the cost of selection and monitoring of grants being
prohibitive per se the regime needs to be modified in line with the size of the grant, a
better balance between risk and accountability needs to be struck.
72.   Component 3: Project management. Project implementation was managed and
administered by the DGHE-IU according to I-MHERE Operation Procedures Manual. At
the time of appraisal, the cost of this component was US$3,150,000, financed exclusively
by GOI. The Board of Higher Education (BHE) supported DGHE-IU in conducting the
grant selection process and monitoring and evaluating the progress of the project
achievement. DGHE-IU was responsible for carrying out procurement processes and
financial administration activities at the central level, as well as coordinating, monitoring,
and supervising procurement and disbursement at the individual grantee level. DGHE-IU
was also responsible for providing necessary trainings and TA to the grantees.
73.   DGHE-IU    played an important role in coordinating the overall project
implementation. DGHE-IU conducted regular meetings with representatives from HEI-
IUs, BHE and DGHE. At least twice a year, DGHE-IU held coordinating meetings with
Component 2 grantees. DGHE-IU also coordinated and facilitated regular trainings and
workshops for financial and procurement issues, especially those related with the Bank
policy and regulations, for grantees. In addition, DGHE-IU met regularly with Ministry
of Finance and BAPPENAS to discuss changes to the block-grant mechanism.
74.   Rating of Component 3. The ICR team judges project management to be
moderately satisfactory. The DGHE played a strong coordinating role of I-MHERE
activities. However, some PDO indicators were not met, particularly those related to
DGHE policy studies (tracer study and study of line item, block-grant, and performance-
based funding).
75.   According to Table 11, the total cost of the I-MHERE project appraisal (including
price and physical contingencies) was US$114,537,000 (see Annex Table 2.11 and 2.12
for details). This includes IDA Credit (26 percent), IBRD Loan (44 percent), and GOI
financing (30 percent) at appraisal. GOI financed most of Component 1 and all of
Component 3, while the World Bank financed most of Component 2.
49


﻿Annex Table 2.11. Project costs by financier (US$ ,000)
Activity                     Costs by financier at appraisal         Amended Costs 2012                     Expenditure
IDA     IBRD     GOI     Total       IDA     IBRD    GOI     Total       IDA     IBRD    GOI     Total
1. Higher education reform  490    810    7,511    8,811       210    1,722   4,611    6,543       197    1,228    695     2,121
and oversight
1.1 Higher education
institutional          442      731     3,250   4,423        40     990      350    1,380        32      583     142     758
modernization
1.2 Transition of the
quality assurance       48      79      357      484         170     92      357     619         165     12      13      190
system
1.3 Comprehensive
revitalization plan for  -       -      3,904   3,904         -      640    3,904   4,544         -      633     540    1,173
the Open University of
Indonesia
2. Grants for responsive
and efficient allocation of  29,510  48,940  19,427  97,877   29,465  39,689  19,427   88,581     29,439  37,615  15,677  82,731
resources
2.1 Competitive grants
to public and private  20,655  34,480  13,206   68,341     17,518  21,495   13,206  52,219     17,508   19,430  12,509  49,447
HEls
2.2 Grants for
promoting good         8,855   14,460   6,221   29,536     11,947  18,194   6,221   36,362     11,931   18,185  3,168   33,284
governance in public
and autonomous HEls
3.Projectmanagement        -       250    7,599    7,849       325     1711   10,499   12,535      319     1,327   6,034   7,679
costs*
Total financing required  30,000  50,000  34,537  114,537     30,000  43,122  34,537  107,659     29,955  40,170  22,406  92,531
Source: DGHE
*Project management costs include consultant management, incremental costs, and front end
fees.
50


﻿Annex Table 2.12. Expenditure as a share of allocation
Activity                                              Expenditure as a share of appraisal costs
Expenditure as a share of amended costs
IDA       IBRD       GOI        Total         IDA      IBRD       GOI       Total
1. Higher education reform and oversight            40.2%     151.6%      9.3%      24.1%        93.8%      71.3%     15.1%     32.4%
1.1 Higher education institutional modernization  7.2%      79.8%      4.4%      17.1%         80.0%     58.9%      40.6%    54.9%
1.2 Transition of the quality assurance system   343.8%     15.2%      3.6%      39.3%         97.1%     13.0%      3.6%     30.7%
1.3 Comprehensive revitalization plan for the Open
.                                   -        13.8%o    30.0%           -       98.9%o    13.8%o    25.8%
University of Indonesia
2. Grants for responsive and efficient allocation of  99.80    76.90     80.70      84.5%        9990       94.80     80.70     93.4%
resources
2.1 Competitive grants to public and private HEls  84.8%     56.4%     94.7%      72.4%        99.9%      90.4%     94.7%     94.7%
2.2 Grants forpromoting good governance inpublic  134.7%    125.8%     50.9%     112.7%        99.9%     100.0%     50.9%     91.5%
and autonomous HEls
3. Project management costs*                          -       530.8%     79.4%      97.8%        98.2%      77.6%     57.5%     61.3%
Total financing required                            99.9%      80.3%     64.9%      80.8%        99.9%      93.2%     64.9%     85.9%
Source: DGHE
*Project management costs include consultant management, incremental costs, and front end fees.
51


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
1.    The economic value of the I-MHERE project has been evaluated in terms of (i)
employment and wages of tertiary graduates and (ii) efficiency in spending.
2.    Employment and wages of tertiary graduates. The value of increased employment and
wages associated with the I-MHERE project has been assessed through Net Present Value (NPV)
and economic rate of return calculations. The analysis is guided by the methodology that was
developed in the economic and financial analyses of the Project Appraisal Documents (PADs)
for I-MHERE and DUE (previous higher education project in Indonesia). The methodology has
been adapted as appropriate to represent the implementation of the I-MHERE competitive B. 1
grants in Component 2. B. 1 grants were awarded to two or three study programs at 38 HEls to
enhance quality of study programs and increase employability of graduates. Estimates indicate
that I-MHERE competitive grants had an NPV of US$145,162,292 and an economic rate of
return of 30 percent. Discounted costs of US$27,182,557 include expenditures against
awarded B.1 grants and administrative costs. There are three benefit flows:
(i)   Improved quality. I-MHERE grants were intended to increase the quality of study
programs, which is evidenced by higher learning outcomes, or increases in average
student GPA, over the duration of the project. This benefit is estimated as
US$130,870,737 of an increase in total wages due to higher wage premiums.
(ii)  Increased relevance. I-MHERE grants were also designed to increase the
employability of higher education graduates, which was demonstrated by a reduction in
the time to find employment during the course of the project. This benefit is estimated as
US$27,968,460 of an increase in earnings due to additional months in the labor force.
(iii)  Higher internal efficiency. In addition, I-MHERE grants attempted to reduce the
time to graduate through funding for final year projects (skripsi), which successfully
shortened study time. This benefit is estimated as US$13,505,650 due to earnings from
additional months in the labor force.
3.    Efficiency in spending. I-MHERE grants and activities were also intended to strengthen
institutional management in the move toward autonomy. It is difficult to measure improvements
in institutional management, but budget outturn, or how much was spent as a share of how much
was allocated, provides an approximate indicator. Therefore, efficiency in spending is presented
as an analysis of expenditure against awarded grants by grant type and nature of expenditure.
This analysis was not included in the economic and financial analysis of the I-MHERE PAD, but
it is a common measure of effectiveness in public spending.
4.    There were four I-MHERE grant windows: (i) competitive grants to public and private
HEls, B. 1; (ii) competitive grants for strengthening institutional management in non-autonomous
public HEls, B.2.a; (iii) proposal-based grants for strengthening institutional management at
autonomous public HEls, B.2.b; and (iv) performance-based contracts grants (second stage of
B.2.b) for autonomous HEls, B.2.c. Across study programs and institutional management
beneficiaries at 79 HEls, 88 percent of allocated grants were spent, which is a slightly lower
rate than MoEC's outturn. However, efficiency varies by expenditure category, in some cases
due to policy changes during the project. Funding for procurement, IT infrastructure, and
52


﻿software, research, and policy study was spent more efficiently at rates of 95 percent or higher.
However, funds designated for technical assistance, community development, and promotional
activities were spent less efficiently.
Net present value
5.     The following assumptions informed by available project data and the PAD's economic
and financial analysis were made to calculate the NPV:
(i)    Benefits begin to accrue in the last year of grants (2009) after at least 3 years of
implementation;
(ii)   There are 7,076 graduates from B. 1 study programs in the first year that benefits
accrue based on DGHE data;
(iii)  The number of graduates grows annually at a rate of 4 percent projected from
DGHE data;
(iv)   Ten cohorts of graduates benefit from these quality improvements, as assumed in
the PAD;
(v)    Ten cohorts of graduates continue to produce benefits for 30 years over their
careers, as assumed in the PAD;
(vi)   Annual salaries increase at a rate of 3 percent annually, as assumed in the PAD;
and
(vii)  There is a discount rate of 10 percent, as assumed in the PAD.
Improved quality
6.     A core goal of the I-MHERE grants was to improve the quality of higher education in
study programs that received grants. Related activities included capacity building of staff and
procurement of goods. With I-MHERE support, professors improved their knowledge through
308 Master's (S2) or Doctoral (S3) degrees, 2,498 hours of domestic training, and 462 hours of
international training. Staff in study programs also benefited from TA of 441 domestic
consultants and 16 international consultants with the specific intent of improving educational
quality, including the management of laboratories. In addition, study programs were able to
procure sophisticated laboratory equipment, furniture, and textbooks in the amount of over
US$21 million.
7.     In Indonesia, returns to tertiary education have fallen slightly over the duration of the I-
MHERE project. However, this is an understandable trend, given that tertiary gross enrollment
rates have grown quickly over this period. As increased numbers of tertiary graduates enter the
labor force, wage premiums are expected to fall. Figure 1 shows that enrollments have risen at a
much higher rate than returns to higher education have fallen. It is difficult to say why wage
premiums have only fallen slightly, but it could be that increases in enrollments have been
accompanied by improvements in quality through I-MHERE and other initiatives. These quality
improvements could have mitigated decreases in wage premiums to the 10 percent decline that
occurred instead of the sharp decrease that would be expected as gross enrollment rates doubled
from 14.3 percent in 2005 to 28.5 percent in 2010.
53


﻿Figure 2. Tertiary gross enrollment rates and returns to higher education in
Indonesia over duration of I-MHERE project
30%               .140%
Wage premiums
25%                                                                  120%
- 100%
E 20%
oW
80%
(515%la
60%
Tertiary gross
I 10%     V11ullinent ilt%
40%
5% -20%
0%                                                                  0%
2005      2006       2007      2008      2009       2010
-    Tertiary gross enrollment rate  - Wage premiums
Source: Analysis of Susenas and Sarkenas survey data for available years.
8.     Measuring improvements in the quality of education at the tertiary level that may be
influenced by these activities is not straightforward. At primary and secondary levels, learning
outcomes are typically assessed through standardized assessments that are not available at the
tertiary level. Although many factors influence students' grades, GPA provides a proxy for how
well students master required material. An examination of GPA over this period shows positive
change in learning outcomes from a GPA of 2.99 to 3.17, or a 6 percent increase. All grantee
HEls experienced some degree of increase in GPA, although the magnitude varied by HEI (see
Figure 3). In turn, this increase in the quality of graduates is expected to raise skill levels of
higher education graduates, as employers are willing to pay more for employees with more
developed skills.
54


﻿Figure 3. Trends in GPA for students in study programs
receiving I-MHERE grants, by HEI
3.6
3.4                                             l
3.2
P2.8
2.6
2.4
2.4       2.6        2.8        3         3.2       3.4
GPA at baseline
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
9.    Wage premiums are also problematic at lower levels of education, as there is a general
decline in returns to education at primary, junior secondary, and senior secondary levels as well
over this same period. However, tertiary graduates continue to earn more than their less-
educated counterparts with senior secondary degrees (see Annex Table 3.1). Therefore, given
higher quality of tertiary graduates as shown by higher GPAs, this economic and financial
analysis will use the adjusted wage that accrues to tertiary graduates over senior secondary
graduates (IDR 2,753,619) to approximate benefits to due to quality of tertiary education. These
assumptions result in a benefit from increased quality of US$130,870,737.
Annex Table 3.1. Returns to education in 2010, by level
.Average                                            Marginal
Level of education        yerage        Adjusted      Returns by    runb
.baie                   yearly wage     wae            ee         returns by
obtained                   .Rpih          wage*         levellel
(Rupiah)                                   level
No education                7,096,956     7,096,956
Primary school (SD)         9,572,146     8,566,026      21%           21%
Junior secondary (SMP)     13,829,256    10,787,373      52%           31%
Senior secondary (SMA)     16,838,940    12,213,861     72%            20%
Tertiary                   28,267,200    14,967,480     111%           39%
Source: World Bank analysis of 2010 Sakernas data
*The adjusted wage accounts only for the wage that is due to the level of education attained. It is calculated
by multiplying the base wage (average yearly wage for someone with no education) by the returns to a
particular level of education.
Increased relevance
10.   I-MHERE grants were also designed to increase the employability of higher education
graduates through higher relevance from the staff capacity building and procurement activities
described above. It is difficult to say whether reduction in the time to find employment is related
to changes in the quality of the graduates or changes in the labor market. A look at
55


﻿unemployment rates over the duration of the project for years with available data shows that
unemployment rates decreased, but the share of tertiary graduates as a share of the total
unemployment increased. From 2005 to 2010, unemployment rates decreased from 11.2 percent
to 7.9 percent. However, tertiary graduates represented a growing share of this total (see Figure
4), which could be a result of more tertiary graduates with respect to primary and secondary
graduates. The general trend of lower outcomes in the labor market for tertiary graduates could
mean that gains by graduates of I-MHERE study programs could be related to quality gains.
Figure 4. Trends in unemployment, by level of education
100%
2 80%
1E 60% -                                             Other
40%   -- Tertiary
a Secondary
,20%--
4  Primary
0%
2005     2006     2007     2008
Source: World Bank WDI database.
11.    This increased relevance was demonstrated by a reduction in the time to find employment
during the course of the project from 8.5 months to 5.8 months, or 31 percent. Figure 5 shows
that graduates from almost all HEls experienced a decrease in the time to find employment after
graduation.
Figure 5. Reduction in time to find a job
16
14
.0 12
10
8
-4
20
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
56


﻿12.    To quantify the benefits from reduced time to find a job, the economic and financial
analysis is calculated as earnings from additional months in the labor force. Graduates of I-
MHERE study programs are finding jobs 2.6 months earlier than at the start of the project. The
average monthly starting salary for higher education graduates in Indonesia at the project's end
was IDR 15,512,202 (2009). Using these assumptions, a benefit of increased relevance is
calculated to be US$27,968,460.
Higher internal efficiency
13.    I-MHERE grants were also intended to increase internal efficiency by reducing the time
to graduation. The project directly supported this goal through US$2 million in funding to 4,047
final year projects (skripsi). Students are required to carry out research for their final project,
and often are forced to delay graduation because they lack funding to complete research. Over
the course of the project, the time to graduate reduced by 10 percent from 56.7 months to 51.2
months (see Figure 6 for variation by HEI). This reduction is in line with similar national trends
caused in part by increased internal management efficiency23, also supported by I-MHERE.
Figure 6. Reduction in time to graduate
18
16
14
12
10
8-
0
.4
0
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
14.    This stream of the economic and financial analysis will rely on the earnings from
additional months in the labor force. Higher education graduates are working for an additional
5.5 months at an average monthly starting salary of IDR 1,292,684 (2009). The analysis also
uses the same assumptions previously described. The benefits from a shorter time to graduate
are estimated to be US$13,505,650. This conservative estimate does not include gains from the
23 Explained in Indonesia: Higher Education Financing, by Human Development Department, East Asia and Pacific Region
(2010).
57


﻿public cost of tertiary education (estimated to be IDR 9,190,907 annually by Indonesia: Higher
Education Financing report) nor private annual costs of tertiary education (estimated to be IDR
5,935,672 per student from analysis of Susenas Education Module data). If these benefits were
also taken into account, the total would be much higher.
Costs
15.   The costs associated with these benefits include expenditures on competitive grants
awarded through I-MHERE's B.1 sub-component. In total, US$49,447,000, discounted to
US$27,182,557, was spent on these grants. The model assumes equal disbursements annually
for simplicity over the duration of the project, and does not include expenditures beyond the
project's close. After project close, the continued benefits accrue to four cohorts of previous
graduates and six additional cohorts. The continuation of benefits beyond the life of the project
without additional expenditure will come from use of equipment procured through I-MHERE
and higher knowledge levels of staff.
Net present value
16.   These assumptions lead to an NPV calculation of US$145,162,292 and an economic
rate of return of 30 percent. This return is lower than assessed in the PAD, due at least in part
to a much lower number of graduates than predicted. The PAD's analysis assumed that there
would be 23,554 graduates in the first year of benefits, whereas there were 7,076 graduates of
study programs receiving B.1 competitive grants. The PAD's estimate of graduates was higher
because it included all graduates from an HEI, not just the students in the study programs that
received grants. The number of graduates also differs from that in the PAD because 38 grants
were awarded, more than the 26 grants intended at project design. The largest benefit stream
comes from the estimated return to education quality (see Annex Table 3.2 for details).
Annex Table 3.2. NPV summary of benefits and costs
US$ 2006
Total discounted benefits                      172,344,848
Quality: Returns to higher education         130,870,737
Relevance: Reduction in time to find a job    13,505,651
Internal efficiency: Shorter time to graduation  27,968,460
Total discounted costs                         (27,182,557)
World Bank and Gol financing of competitive
grants                                       (27,182,557)
NPV (benefits-costs)                           145,162,292
Source: Authors' calculations.
58


﻿Efficiency of spending
17.   In addition to benefits from B.1 competitive grants that were designed to increase quality
of study programs, I-MHERE funding supported grants that were intended to strengthen
institutions and prepare them for full autonomy. Benefits from the outputs of these grants cannot
be included in the NPV calculation, but the efficiency of spending can be examined to see how
well funds were spent. Overall, 88 percent of I-MHERE funds were spent (see Table 3 for
details). This spending rate is slightly lower than the outturn rate of 91 percent for MoEC in
2011, indicating that I-MHERE funds were spent more slowly (and less efficiently) than MoEC
funds.
Annex Table 3.3 Efficiency of spending by nature of expenditure across grant types
Expenditure category                    B.1    B.2.a  B .2.b  B.2.c  Overall
Staff development and scholarships       77%    77%    37%      -       77%
Procurement                              92%       -      -  107%       95%
Technical assistance                     55%    79%    35%    91%       65%
Research                                101%       -      -  105%      103%
Community development                    56%       -      -   98%       66%
Promotional activities                   55%       -      -      -      55%
IT infrastructure and software              -  101%    88%       -      98%
Policy study                                -   96%       -      -      96%
System development                          -      -   83%   111%       91%
Program development                         -      -   80%    96%       89%
Total                                    85%    86%    79%   105%       88%
Source: DGHE I-MHERE ICR (2013).
18.   The rate of spending varies by grant type and nature of expenditure. The second stage of
grants for autonomous HEls (B.2c), were spent at the highest rate, over 100 percent, due in part
to changes in the exchange rate. The institutional strengthening grants for autonomous HEls
(B.2.b) were spent at the lowest rate, 79 percent, which was related to many factors including
confusion over autonomous status caused by the revocation of the higher education law and
funding through the DIPA (described in Annex 2). Funding for procurement, IT infrastructure,
and software, research, and policy study was spent successfully at rates of 95 percent or higher.
However, it proved more difficult to spend funds designated for technical assistance, community
development, and promotional activities for a variety of reasons. In the case of TA, some HEls
were hindered by civil service regulations and World Bank international procurement
requirements. Community development was a new activity that required partnership with a non-
HEI, which presented challenges in implementation. Given project constraints, spending of the
I-MHERE grants was fairly efficient.
59


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Names                           Title                Unit      Responsibility!
Specialty
Lending
Ratna Kesuma                Senior Operations Officer         EASHE
Novira Kusdarti Asra        Sr. Fin. Management Specialist    EAPFM
Susiana Iskandar            Senior Education Specialist       EASHE
Rizal H. Rivai              Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPPR
Christopher James Smith     Consultant                        EASPR
Richard Hopper              Education Specialist              EASHD
Yogana Prasta               Sr. Disbursement Officer          EASIF
Rajiv Sondhi                Sr. Fin. Manage. Specialist       EAPCO
Titie Hadiyati              Consultant (Costing)              EAPCO
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen     Lead Education Specialist         LCSHE
Kristian Thom               ET Consultant (Education)         LCSHE
Steven Burgess              Sr. Soc. Devel. Specialist        EASSD
Joseph Burke                Consultant (Performance Funding)  External
Juan Manuel Moreno          Sr. Education Specialist          HDNED
Robin DePietro-Jurand       Consultant (Higher Education)     External
Maria Jose LeMaitre         Consultant (Quality Assurance)    External
Menno Prassard Pradhan      Economist                         EACIF
Anne-Lise Klausen           ET Consultant (Civil Service)     EACIF
Rosita Van Meel             Sr. Education Specialist          SASHD
Shahid Yusuf                Economic Advisor                  DECRG
Ompom Regel                 Sr. Operations Specialist         EASHD
Elizabeth King              Lead Economist                    EASHD
Marlaine Lockheed           Consultant (M&E)                  External
Xiomara A. Morel            Senior Finance Officer            LOAGI
Christina Sukmawati         Program Assistant                 EACIF
Supervision/ICR             _______________
Ratna Kesuma                Senior Operations Officer         EASHE      Task Team
Leader
Mae Chu Chang               Lad Education Specialist        [EASHES
Novira Asra                 Sr.mFin. Manage. Specialist       EAPFM
Susiana Iskandar            Senior Education Specialist       EASHE
Siwage D. Negara           -Operations Officer               EASHE
Rizal H. Rivai              Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPPR
Christopher James Smith    FConsultant                       EASPR
I.G.N. Wijaya Kusuma        Consultant                        EAPFM
Paulus Bagus Tjahjanto      Procurement Specialist            EAPPR
Anita Buragohain            Temporary                         EASHE
William Hardi              [Consultant                      [External
Rimta K. Silangit          Liaison Officer                  _____       ________
Susie Sugiarti              Operations Officer                EASHE
60


﻿Dhonke Ridhong Kafi       Consultant                      EASFP
Santoso                   E T Consultant                 EASHE
Muhanmmad Farman lzhar     Operations Officer/Financial   EASHE
Management
Benedicta Ridati Sembodo   Program Assistant              EACIF
Yvonne Trethewey           Consultant - Training          EASHE
Halsey L. Beemer, Jr.      Lead ICR Consultant            EASHE      ICR Author
Chelsea Foulke Coffin      Consultant - Eco/Fin Analysis  EASHE      ICR Author
(b) Staff Time and Cost____________________________
) SStaff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY 2004                       10.94                    69.51
FY 2005                       67.26                   333.49
Total:           78.2                      403
Supervision/ICR
FY 2006                       20.06                    132.31
FY 2007                       16.93                    79.14
FY 2008                       18.98                    76.24
FY 2009                       18.66                    67.75
FY 2010                       18.43                    80.54
FY 2011                       19.42                    57.50
FY 2012                       20.72                    78.68
FY 2013                       14.04                    93.16
Total:         147.24                   665.32
61


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.
62


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.
63


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
(The full 91 page report is in project files. This version is edited only for length.)
Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE)
Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC)
Indonesia: Managing Higher Education for Relevance and Efficacy (I-MHERE) Project
Implementation Completion Report
1.    Background: Recognizing the important of higher education in developing the nation's
competitiveness and cognizant of the fact that the system is currently facing various shortcomings
and weaknesses, the DGHE has developed a project called "Indonesia: Managing Higher Education
for Relevance and Efficiency (I-MHERE)". The project is supported by the World Bank. The project
addresses three major issues namely: the implementation of good governance at the central as well as
institution levels, promoting quality of programs that are relevant to national and local needs, and
providing equitable access to under privileged group but academically potentials..
2.    Project Development Objectives: The development objective of I-MHERE Project is "To
create an enabling environment for the evolution of autonomous and accountable public higher
education institutions, and to develop effective support mechanisms for the improvement of the
quality, relevance, efficiency, and equity of higher education
Project Components:
Component A - Higher Education System Reform and Oversight
A. 1 - Modernization of higher education sector oversight and management.
A.2 - Supporting a transition in the quality assurance system to emphasize institutional
accreditation and licensing of professional fields.
A.3 - Development and adoption of a comprehensive revitalization plan for the Open
University of Indonesia.
Component B - Grants to improve academic quality and institutional performance
B. 1 - Competitive grants to public and private HEls
B.2 - Grants for promoting good governance in public HEls and initiation of Performance-
Based Contracts at autonomous HEls
B.2a: Competitive grants for strengthening institutional management in non-
autonomous public HEls
B.2b: Proposal-based grants for strengthening institutional management at
autonomous public HEls
B.2c: Performance-Based Contract (PBC) grants for autonomous public HEls
3.    Project Scope and Financing: Total project cost for five years implementation are USD
114,537,000 comprises of IDA in amount of USD 30,000,000, IBRD in amount of USD 50,000,000,
and GOI in amount of USD 34,537,000. The proportion of GOI funding for component A is higher
than that of LOAN i.e. 85.25 %. Funding for component B comprised of IDA, IBRD and GOI with
proportion of GOI 19.85 % which comprises of government support and higher education institution
support. The proportion of HEls support is 8% of their contract as counterpart funding and it has also
64


﻿to be provided after project finish as part of institutional commitment in term of sustainability of the
project. Part of the counterpart funding in amount of 5 % has to be used for project management such
including evaluation and monitoring, provided after project finish as part of institutional commitment
in term of sustainability of the project.
Overall Performance Indicators of the Project
4.     To measure the performance of the project or the achievement of development objective are
set:
(a)The draft law on education institutions (BHP) is passed by 2010, thereby putting in place
the foundation for a coherent legal structure and an overarching regulatory framework to
support the effectiveness of institutional autonomy.
(b) The National Information System for Higher Education develops the capability to conduct
and report on regular graduate tracer studies by 2010, thereby signaling significant
improvements in the NISHE's capacity to collect, analyze, and disseminate system-wide data.
(c) Institutional accreditation is awarded to 5 percent of all HEls by 2010, thereby signaling
the development and application of new standards and procedures for institutional
accreditation by the BAN-PT.
(d) By 2010, unqualified opinion awarded by external auditors on financial audit to five
public HEls, thereby signaling that public HEls are strengthening the management capability
needed to exercise autonomy effectively.
(e) A comprehensive process evaluation of line-item financing, competitive grants and
performance-based contracting is completed by 2010, thereby permitting the government to
make policy based on solid evidence about public financing mechanisms for higher education.
5.     In line with the design of the project implementation in which the implantation of the project
have to be integrated with the existing organization or management, there are some performance
indicators which reflected the development of institution capacity (capacity building), especially for
grantees sub-component 1.1 and B.2a as follows:
a. Ninety Percent (90%) of Procurement carried out by participating institutions is awarded
within the bid validity period.
b. Fifty percent (50%) of procurement staff of participating institutions are certified in
accordance with national certification policy in existence in 2010.
c. All participating institutions publish all records of contracted unit rates for goods and
major construction materials for contracts above $50.000 or equivalent.
Project Outcomes
6.     Component 1: Higher Education System and Oversight: Component 1 was designed to
support the government in implementing the Higher Education Long Term Strategy (HELTS), to
develop enabling environment for a more autonomous, output-oriented and responsive higher
education system at both sector and individual institution levels. For that purpose, this component
focused on development of regulatory framework to support broader university autonomy
particularly with regard to human resources and financial management, stronger governance.
7.     The implementation of this component has supported development of a draft law on legal
status of higher education institutions, which was successfully passed into Law 9/2009. Although this
Law was short lived, revoked by the Constitutional Court a year later, the process, the dialectics, and
65


﻿the dynamics the development process of this law had created proved to have changed the mindset
among the large part within the national higher education community. This has manifested among
others in the very swift response from the Ministry of Education and Culture to quickly move to draft
a replacement law. The draft replacement law was broader in scope and gain strong support from the
university community and the parliament alike leading to the enactment of Law 12/2012 on Higher
Education System, approximately two years after the law on legal entity status was revoked. The
exercise to develop legal framework to promote broader autonomy which led to enactment of Law
9/2009 and later Law 12/2013 proved to have change the mindset of the university community with
regard to the indispensability of broader autonomy to developing a more efficient and responsive
higher education institutions.
8.     The dynamics and dialectics related to broader autonomy and university legal entity status
had reached beyond the university. Soon after Law 9/2009 was revoked, dialog intensified between
the Ministry of Education and Culture with the Ministry of Finance in order to find a way out, at least
a transitional one, for universities already bearing legal entity status and many more universities
aspiring for the broader autonomy. A regulatory framework existed then except that it was far from
ideal solution, which allowed some degree of autonomy in financial management, by converting state
university into a public service agency, better known as Badan Layanan Umum (BLU).
9.     Improvement in management and governance at individual institutions level was supported
by other project component, notably B.2a, B.2b, and B.2c. Component B.2A which was designed to
support individual university to improve resource management and to prepare for governance
framework as ground work for legal entity status proved equally instrumental to prepare the
universities for BLU status. This resulted in the quick response and readiness of universities to
become BLU once it was allowed following revocation of Law 9/2009.
10.   At the national management level, the component focused on strengthening oversight
capacity and a more evidence based decision making including planning and budgeting. To
implement this Component A of the project also supported development of a national information
system designed to support policy making process, NISHE. Development of NISHE may not yet
result in a great contribution to the decision making process within the Directorate General of Higher
Education however the potential for this looks increasingly clearly obvious.
11.   Exercise with regard to institutional reform at the national level partly implemented in the
recent structuring of the DGHE organization. A full implementation of the finding was prevented by
the overturning of Law 9/2009. Planning and budgeting in line with broader university autonomy
involving fund channeling by means of block-granting to individual universities could not be
implemented given the fact that in the absence of legal entity status state universities are legally
considered part of the government bureaucracy and are ineligible for receiving grants from central
government by Law 17/2003.
12.    Strengthening of accreditation system under this component had also led to positive
development towards achievement of the objective of the project. This component specifically
supported capacity building and development of instrument to support accreditation at institution
level as well as professional accreditation. Implementation of accreditation at institution level was
met by resistance, and even the previous Minister of Education ordered moratorium to the program
and instructed an evaluation to the program. Following the evaluation it proved useful and then
adopted, and even now stipulated in the new higher education law (Law 12/2012) which requires all
66


﻿higher education institution to subject to institution level accreditation. The program is now an
integral part of the overall higher education accreditation along with the professional accreditation in
four professional fields.
13.    Revitalization of Open University: The whole participants of ODP and ONDT Programs
funded by I-MHERE Project will support the implementation and continuation of the six core
programs on 'ICTbased ODL system' which have currently been running as regular activities at UT.
The six core programs have generally reached their objectives to support the role of UT in improving
quality of teacher education and in increasing the access to higher education for remote and
underprivileged members of the society, as well as in specializing UT in ICT based university
management and academic delivery.
Component 2: Grants to Improve Academic Quality and Institutional Performance
14.    The targeted beneficiaries of these grants are both public and private universities, where this
project component aimed at creating environment toward the development of autonomous and
accountable higher education institutions.
15.    (a) Improvement of academic quality and equitable access in higher education: The
quality and equity improvement made by grantees of sub-component-1.1 are reflected in the
achievement of the key performance indicators. The first three indicators reflect the academic
performance of study program, while the last represents the performance at university level.
16.   Improvements in the overall quality of academic program at study program level, although
such improvement was not necessarily corresponded with the agreed upon target level. These
improvements also indicate that the study programs have successfully created and implemented an
academic environment and practices that would yield better quality in education. All efforts and
investment made in this program, although currently there is no direct indication that would relate
them to the achievement of KPIs, have led to the improvement of the academic quality, which in turn
also demonstrates the effectiveness of the academic program.
17.    Along with those main KPIs, other performance indicators also show quite encouraging
results, such as publications, TOEFL score, as well as research and industrial collaborations.
However, still there is no direct indication can be measured whether such improvement are solely or
partially resulted from the program. Also, it remains unknown whether such achievements would
remain high or improve after the end of the project or, in the contrary, they will return to the original
stages and even worse.
18.    Through outreach program, I-MHERE project has set new standard for recruiting potential
student, far more effective reaching out those who are traditionally would otherwise not being able to
get access to higher education. At institution level, the design-mechanism and implementation of this
scholarship program was also successfully adopted by the university. At national level, policy
concerning improving access and equity for underprivileged society are being implemented in Law
no 12/2012 also stipulates that each HEI shall recruit 20%   of the incoming students from
underprivileged population. Now, scholarship programs such as BIDIK MISI and many others are
becoming integral part of DGHE regular program, which will increase access and equity for students
with underprivileged background, though the effectiveness of the implementation still requires a lot
of improvement.
67


﻿However, it is also important to understand that the implementation of scholarship mechanism based
on this "outreach" concept should have been better if the definition and mechanism to determine
underprivileged population can be clearly defined.
19.   The practice of tracer study has also impacted HEls education program. Although was not
initiated by I-MHERE project, the implementation of tracer study has become university standard
data collection mechanism for various instruments of academic assessment. Together with other
competitive programs (e.g. PHK), I-MHERE program has been influential in making tracer study as
part of regular program at university levels. The use of tracer study as the basis of making decision is
a manifest of good practices in evident-based decision making by the university management.
20.    The improvement of quality in academic program was also expected as the result of
introducing non-traditional funding channeling mechanism. The design-mechanism of sub-
component B.2c was initially set up following the successful implementation of capacity building
program in sub-component B.2b. Although the implementation arrangement could not be executed as
designed, the academic achievement of grantees in sub-component B.2c were on or above target.
This evidence, on one side, may indicate a successful improvement of the level of graduate education
program; on the other side it raises questions concerning the effectiveness the design-mechanism of
the program itself.
21.    (b) Improvement of institutional performances: Fundamentally, Component B of I-
MHERE project aimed to strengthen HEls' management capacity that would enable them to become
autonomous and accountable higher education institutions. Although this program only supported
funding for subcomponent B.2a and B.2b, capacity building program was also imposed to grantees of
sub-component 1.1 using their own funding. Particular attention should be given to grantees of sub-
component B.2a (non-autonomous public universities), while grantees of sub-component B.2b
(autonomous - BHMN universities) were considered of having already better management capacity,
and therefore the outcomes are deemed less crucial than those of sub-component-B2a
22.    For grantees for sub-component 1.1, the outcomes for capacity building program will
particularly be assessed from the performance of financial and procurement aspects, which directly
contribute to the achievement of academic performances. Although institution's performance is
resulted from a number of driving factors, it is safe to conjecture that the sub-component B.2a of I-
MHERE is expected to systematically improve institution capacity in managing the institution which
in turn gives rise to institution overall performance.
23.    Sub-component 1.1 was designed to exercise block-grant funding mechanism  as an
alternative model of fund channeling mechanism that was deemed suitable for autonomous HEls. At
the same time, the executing mechanism of the grants also called a shift from study program-based
program toward institution-based program; which in essence requires strong integrated management
capacity at institution level. This requirement was then responded by the carrying out the capacity
building program.
24.    A noteworthy characteristic of this program was the conditions for grantees to carry out the
project management duties not by traditional ad hoc approach, which in the past was a common
approach for handling grant programs. Under this program, HEls are to integrate project management
functions -especially in financial and procurement management area- into the existing managerial
functions of the institution. This approach attempts to empower the existing managerial unit of the
68


﻿institutions, whereby at the same time imposing integration mechanism for management functions for
all programs at institution level.
25.    Among many achievements of sub-component 1.1, 79.9% of all grantees have successfully
awarded the contract within the validity period of bid. The internal management of grantees have
performed optimally improved the capacity of procurement staff by obtaining the certificate of
procurement from LKPP (83%). In addition, the majority of the HEls (86.6 %) also published all
necessary contract documents and make it available for the communities. These good practices will
eventually improve the transparency and accountability of the project management, and gives
optimism that the project management has managed the process on the right manner.
26.    Unfortunately, this program cannot be functional effectively mainly because the block-grant
scheme was never realized. Instead, institutions must still follow DIPA mechanism that prohibited
them to execute multi-years program. Under DIPA scheme, any unabsorbed budget must be returned
to the state and cannot be directly made out of the next year program. As the result, funding
effectiveness becomes very low, as the institution must again go through a series of lengthy
budgeting and disbursement cycle.
27.    Sub-component B.2a was designed to prepare non-autonomous public universities to become
more autonomous by enhancing their management capacity. Through the implementation of this
program, grantees of B2.a have successfully developed internal capacity in institutional planning, as
well as capable of managing resources (physical asset, human and financial resources) in an
integrated system. The institutions now have the capacity to develop business plans (which also
includes of annual plan and budget), along with financial accounting system that can be audited by
public accountant and comply with the state accountant system. The outcome of this program is
reflected by the successful attainment of 14 institutions to follow the BLU financial scheme, and 11
institutions to receive unqualified-opinion audit status.
28.    Although they already have the capacity to manage, block-grant scheme still cannot be
implemented due to lack of necessary supporting regulations. Therefore, this program continued to
run DIPA mechanism. As for the capacity in absorbing DIPA, the national average figure for 2011 is
87%, thus the average capacity for B.2a grantees is above the national average.
29.    At the higher level, sub-component B.2b was instrumental in accelerating the internal
management capacity improvement of autonomous universities (PT BHMN) in becoming full-
fledged autonomy. The successes of implementing good university management system are reflected
in, among other things in the establishment of procurement system at ITB and as well as financial
and asset management system in other BHMN. Procurement system at ITB, for example, is deemed
successful and appreciated by the World Bank which was then proposed as a model for procurement
raining center.
30.    Following up the successful implementation of sub-component-B.2b, five of seven PT-
BHMNs proceeded to carry on with the sub-componenet-B.2c with the objective to find alternative
fund channeling mechanism based on performance. However, the implementation of this program
has yet to demonstrate promising results since DIPA mechanism was still in effect and prohibited the
application of performance-based contract. Hence, there was no clear evidence that suggests the
performance of grantees in graduate education is the direct result of the investment made in this
program.
69


﻿Lessons learned and Recommendations:
31.    A. Lessons learned: In any project or program, it is important to note that performance
indicators are not the objectives by itself. Indicators are needed to indicate whether the improvement
and development activities are in the right direction or not, but the development objectives cannot be
represented solely by the performance indicators. In order to understand how far the objectives have
been achieved, therefore, it is paramountly important to present a qualitative analysis of the project
achievements.  Whilst previous chapters present the quantitative achievements, the following
sections present the lessons learned in implementing the project, presented in more qualitative
manner.
32.    A.1. Central level: The flip flop of the fundamental regulatory framework used as the basis
of the project design, has significantly affecting the effectiveness of the intervention, as deliberated
in chapter III.
Difficulties in achieving the project development objectives.
33.    (a) Understanding institutional autonomy: Since most of the problems encountered by
academics in daily activities have something to do with procedures in financial management, some
think that autonomy is limited to managing financial matters. It might be the main reason that some
officials in the MoEC and MoF think that the BLU concept could solve entirely the issue of
inadequate institutional autonomy. They do not understand that autonomy in financial management
could only be granted if a proper governance system is in place, and such system could only be
implemented when institutional autonomy is provided.
34.    Some high ranking government officials are still confusing autonomy with privatization, by
publicly defining university autonomy as the ability of a public institution to generate revenue to
substitute government fund. Such misinterpretation and misunderstanding are also shared by a
significant part of the society, demonstrating the ineffective dissemination of the concept of
autonomy. Worse,
Faculties and Departments were commercializing their education programs by charging exorbitant
admission fee to incoming students.
35.    Dissemination of the concept of autonomy is, therefore, highly important to prepare the
public with new legislations, policies, and regulations. Nonetheless a small minority group in the
society, will always remain believe in ideological implementation of an extreme welfare state
concept, by considering higher education as fully public goods.
36.    (b) Data and information: In a system managed in a centralized fashion, centralistic
planning and monitoring enable the central authority to control and oversee the institutions. In a
decentralized higher education system, planning and implementation are mostly carried out by
institutions with limited centralistic control. In such system, reliable data and information becomes
highly critical. When the central authority delegates many of its authorities to the institutions,
monitoring and oversight could only be carried out through a rigorous analysis of the data and
information collected.
37.    Therefore the concept of National Information System on Higher Education (NISHE), has
been adopted and fully incorporated in the Law 12/2012 as PDPT (Pangkalan Data Perguruan
70


﻿Tinggi). The adoption into the law provides a legal foundation to impose the requirement to actively
participate in the NISHE (PDPT).
38.    As for now PDPT has been participated by around 70% of total higher education institutions
(more than 3,200), and expected to steadily increase due to enforcement of the Law 12/2012.
Nevertheless the participation in the NISHE would only be meaningful when policies and decisions
based on data and information is implemented at the central authority as well as institutional level.
39.    (c) Quality assurance and accreditation: External quality assurance, as conducted by the
National Accreditation Board (BANPT), is a critical aspect in strengthening the DGHE's oversight
capacity. The accreditation is also considered as an accountability measure to the public.
40.    Nevertheless it is critically important to understand that the ultimate responsibilities for
quality assurance should rest at the institutional level, where key stakeholders are directly visible,
and internal quality assurance systems are used by institutions thoughtfully to make continuous
improvement efforts. Many institution leaderships consider accreditation as an external 'requirement'
imposed by the DGHE, instead of an external assessment to enrich and strengthen the continuous
internal quality improvement. Compliance with external requirements is important to define
accountability structures, though they by themselves rarely lead to sustained improvements in the
quality of education since 'compliance' is not enough to create the 'culture of quality improvement'.
41.    (d) Competitive based funding scheme: In the last 3 years, the DGHE has shifted its
funding policy from competition toward more direct allocation. The policy shift might arise from the
following reasons: (i) Administrative difficulties in the implementation, i.e. elimination of the
concept of block-grant, and incorporation of grants into DIPA; (ii) The relatively high cost of
selection, monitoring, and evaluation process; (iii) inadequate legal infrastructure for institutional
autonomy; and (iv) recent political trend of re-centralization.
42.    Since the fiscal year of 2012 there has been no new programs implemented based on
competition. The performance based funding, as experimented in B.2C, is considered as an even
more advanced concept compared to competitive funding scheme. Unless the required set of
regulations is available, it could be concluded that for the time being the performance based scheme
is not suitable for Indonesia. Competitive based funding schemes could still be implemented in a
much smaller scale, with a specially designed institutional framework.
A.2. Institutional level:
43.    (a) Fund channeling In the fiscal year 2009, the government decided to incorporate back all
funding schemes into the MoF's DIPA scheme. The decision has enormously affected the project
implementation, mainly due the following reasons: (i) Under the competitive funding scheme, the
grant was directly transferred as a block-to the grantee's special account. By integrating the system
into the MoF's DIPA scheme, the grant is integrated into the university's line item budget; (ii)
Grantees have to submit a request to the university financial manager every time it needs to carry out
activity. The financial manager maintains a certain amount of advanced payment for financing
activities. In most cases IMHERE is not the financial manager's highest priority that he/she might
use the cash for other higher priority activities, causing delay in the implementation. The requirement
to return the remaining fund to the State Treasury at the end of each fiscal year pushes the delay even
longer; (iii) In private universities the grant is still implemented under the previous scheme, whereby
71


﻿the fund is directly transferred the grantee's special account as a block. For that reason, the IMHERE
project implementation is more successfully conducted in private universities.
44.    (b) Procurement: Under this project, procurement processes have been institutionalized
under each university's procurement office (ULP). The initial intention is to ensure that procurement
process is carried out by qualified officers, and irregularities could be prevented. However,
cumbersome procurement process has hampered almost all activities in this project, as explained by
the following points: (i) Due to the centralized procurement process, the implementing officers at the
grantees' level are entirely dependent on the ULP's performance; (ii) The ULP officers are trained to
work under the Gol's procurement procedures and regulations, hence are less familiar with the WB's
procurement procedures. In some cases, the implementing officers at the grantee's level do not have
the leverage to press the ULP for speeding up the process. The procurement packages under the
IMHERE project are mostly small in value; compare to the total procurement value to be carried out
by ULP for the entire university; (iii) The University's capacity to absorb and spend the allocated
budget becomes a critical criterion in the budget allocation for the subsequent fiscal year. In many
cases, ULP put the IMHERE procurement process in their lower priority to be carried out,
contributed to the implementation delay.
45.    (c) Tracer study: For higher educational institutions to become pioneers in continuous
quality improvement of education, with careful analysis of labor market needs and career paths of
graduates is an urgent need for the nation today. One of the important means to understand the labor
market and graduates' performance is the graduate tracer study. A tracer study could provide
important feedback for improving the education process, including student services. Tracer study
could also provide information about the employment condition of the graduates and the labor
market in general.
46.    Apparently the tracer of graduates, a standard practice for all I-MHERE (and all recipients of
other competitive grant as well) grantees, has not been institutionally conducted in many institutions,
even at the most established. Although tracer studies have been conducted by study programs, data
compatibility becomes a problem when consolidation is needed at the institutional level.
47.    Many leadership in the institutions consider tracer study is merely an administrative
requirement for accreditation, and conducted the survey just before the accreditation process.
Therefore I-MHERE initiated to conduct institutional tracer study, at least for institutions receiving I-
MHERE grants. Unfortunately the exercise failed due to technical problem in budget allocation.
48.    (d) Scholarships: In the BI scheme, I-MHERE project introduced a scholarship scheme for
students with disadvantaged economic background. The scheme requires grantees to recruit students
from the high school, instead of selecting scholarship recipients from those who already applied. It
also requires grantees to waive the tuition and fees for the scholarship recipients. However the
allocated living allowance was considered far from adequate to provide students with a decent living.
The I-MHERE project had advocated and proposed to the DGHE to increase the allocation, and only
partially approved in the final 2 years of the project implementation.
49.    Inspired with the potential of the scheme, the DGHE has adopted the scheme, increase the
unit cost, and expanded the coverage into a nationwide scholarship program called Bidik Misi, which
at present covers 92,000 recipients. In many cases, however, university officers assigned to
implement the new scholarship scheme do not possess the necessary competencies. Ideally the
72


﻿officer responsible for scholarship should have deep understanding of the process of selection,
recruitment, and evaluation of a scholarship program. They also need to be able to design and
manage remedial program and counseling services. As the percentage of underprivileged population
has been set at 20% in Law 12/2012, it is essential for all parties to prepare the organizational
infrastructure, program design, as well as competent human resources in compliance with the
prevailing regulation.
B. Recommendations: The following recommendations are addressed to the external donor
agencies, the central authority (DGHE, MoF), and higher education institutions
1. Fund channeling: The termination of competitive funding in 2010 was a push towards regulatory
enforcements, depriving universities of the liberties that they once had.
50.    It is considered as pushing institutions into a 'compliance' culture. The competitive funding,
whereby the grant is provided as a block-with maximum accountability measures, is an ideal scheme
for preparing institutions to implement institutional autonomy. In such environment the central role
will take the role of facilitating, protecting the public interest, and providing strategic direction.
51.    Currently there had been a strong sense of crisis within the sector, particularly amongst
leading lights in quality improvement of public institutions. If institutions were to be innovative in
meeting the future economic needs, they would be expected to be able to operate independently.
There never was a greater need for institutions to develop the culture of independence and
accountability than today so that they tackle the complicated issues of the further quality
improvement needed for Indonesia's future. Without such culture, it will be very difficult to expect
higher education to take a central role by significantly contributing to the national development.
52.    For the central authority, including DGHE and MoF, it is recommended to keep competitive
fund channeling alive, at least for certain types program and institution.
2. Procurement process: The procurement process was one of the major obstacles in the
implementation of I-MHERE project.
53.    The difficult and cumbersome process has significantly affected the ability of grantees to
achieve the target initially set. In many cases the planned investment has not been materialized even
until the end of project. Therefore it is recommended for donor agencies and DGHE to consider the
following points in the future projects; (i) Allow grantees and beneficiaries to apply the government
procurement procedures, which they have already familiar with. This will also avoid the requirement
for grantees to maintain separate financial book keeping: one for the World Bank and the other for
State Auditors (BPKP). BPKP only use the government procurement procedures as its sole reference.
3. Future development programs: For donor agencies and DGHE, it is recommended to design
future projects in the following 2 (two) tiers.
54.    The first tier, comprises relatively advanced institutions according to a certain set of criteria,
e.g. accreditation result. In the short term, these institutions do not urgently require infrastructure,
fellowships for advanced degree, nor teaching as well as laboratory equipment. In order to drive them
for achieving higher goals, rewards will be provided to create pressure and motivation. Thus this
program will focus more to support for improvement and development activities, such as research
grants, trainings, workshops, conferences, and international visits. Most of the budget for investment
73


﻿of goods and civil works will be allocated as rewards after the agreed upon key performance
indicators are successfully achieved. The components in this reward allocation are tightly linked to
the achievement of the objectives set for the previous activities.
55.    The second tier, comprises weaker institutions, who still require a significant amount of
inputs, e.g. infrastructure, equipment, fellowships, as well as technical assistance. These institutions
cannot be carried out improvement activities without such inputs in investment. Budget is allocated
based on proposal review, whilst procurement of goods and services are conducted at the central
project level, or at least with close supervision from the central level. Implementation of the program
will also require periodic (at least annual) review that could affect the program continuation.
4. Capacity building program: It is strongly recommended for higher education institutions to
significantly improve their understanding and competencies in carrying out programs such as tracer
study and scholarships.
56.    The recommendation for DGHE is to organize training programs for university officers at
different levels, initiated with the following programs: (i) Leadership training on university
autonomy; (ii) Training for officers responsible for tracer study; (iii) Training for officers responsible
for scholarship, including selection, recruitment, remedial program, counseling, and evaluation.
5. Program of intervention: Since the Paris Declaration was signed, donor agencies has taken the
back seat and shy away from intervening the recipient government policies.
57.    The assumption is that the recipient government knows the local environment better and
knows the best solution to remedy it. However donor agencies have access to the best expertise
available in world, to be able to provide the best assistance based on the expertise in other countries.
Recipient government could select the most relevant expertise and design the most appropriate
intervention program with the assistance of the best experts.
58.    An intervention that merely follows the regular and standard practices might not benefit the
national interest, as it has been implemented for some time anyway. It is important, therefore, to
design innovative and creative intervention programs, by optimally capitalizing the global expertise
to solve local problems. The new and innovative intervention program becomes a pilot and
experiment, and could be adopted in a larger scale if the implementation is considered a success.
74


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.
75


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Bekhradnia, Bahram. "Restructuring the Central Authority for Higher Education in Indonesia".
Oxford, UK: Education Policy Institute.
Republic of Indonesia, Badan Pusat Statistik, Direktorat Diseminasi Statistik. National Labor
Force Survey, 2010. SAKERNAS 2010 Report.
Republic of Indonesia, Central Board of Statistics. National Socioeconomic Survey (SUSENAS),
2005 Report.
Republic of Indonesia, Ministry of Education and Culture. "MoEC Education Statistics in Brief,
2008-2011".
Republic of Indonesia, Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC), Directorate General of
Higher Education (DGHE) (2013). Implementation Completion Report: Indonesia Managing
Higher Education for Relevance and Efficiency (I-MHERE) Project.
Republic of Indonesia, Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC), Directorate General of
Higher Education (DGHE) (undated). I-MHERE Sub-component 2.2.b. Enhancement ofBHMN
Management Capacity, Guidelines for proposal submission.
Republic of Indonesia, Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC), Directorate General of
Higher Education (DGHE) (undated). I-MHERE Sub-component B.2.c. Performance-Based
contract, Guidelines for proposal submission.
Smith, Christopher J. (2012). "The Higher Education Law: a milestone achieved but still a
difficult road ahead." Indonesia Economic Quarterly. October (2012).
World Bank. Aide Memoire of I-MHERE missions between December 28, 2005, and December
2012.
World Bank (2003). Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007 (CAS) ID- Report No:
27108-IND. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank (2004). Education in Indonesia: Managing the Transition to Decentralization.
World Bank (2005). I-MHERE Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Washington, DC: World
Bank.
World Bank (2005). Loan Agreement Number 4789-IND. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank (2005). Development Credit Agreement 4077-IND. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank (2009). Project Paper on a Proposed Restructuring. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank, Human Development Department, East Asia and Pacific Region (2010). Indonesia:
Higher Education Financing. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank (2012). Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Indonesia for the Period FY13 - 15,
December 13, 2012 Report No. 72906-ID.
World Bank (2012). Financial Management Operational Support Mission Report.
World Bank (2013). Spending more or spending better: Improving education financing in
Indonesia. Washington, DC: World Bank.
76


﻿1159            120'             1250
INDONESIA
MANAGING HIGHER EDUCATION FOR
RELEVANCE AND EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(I-MHERE)
INDONESIA
34   PROJECT PROVINCES
o   CITIES AND TOWNS
VIETNAMHILIPIN S                      e    PROVINCE CAPITALS
10        -                                                                                                   100              ®    NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Banda Aceh
5.       1                                                     BRUNEI.                                                               135'      Thi            5n
MedanNo. Xna                                                                         Taud                             the IT.p Dng nto h
1  Modr.                                                                                               World Bank. The eoendarie,
da nolors, denominations and
Pernatangsiantat                                                 2n                                                                     any other information nh
Simeulue*                               19                                                                     Morotai                      the rt orThe World Bank
,-SINGAPORE                                                    Manadop
le An ton  the
NaPekaro r                 Tanungpinang                         23                             TernateD  Halmahera                    or any endorsement or
0.                         3                Pontianak D    KALIMANTAN                  27      Gorontalo                waigeo
Png @Lingo                         20                   eSamarinda                   3al o31wri                     Biak
S00et  4    5   Jamb i  Bangka               21           Balikpapan          Peleng        Obi
SUIVIATERA     oPangkalpinang  PMaamkuuaya              SULAWESI           Sulait      Cea          33o
6     Paet9n     Beitn                 22         28Amal
69                                                    290ur
Bengkulu       7Parepar                                             30 Kendari                                      3    AAmPn
5  8
Fongano'  BandprreQ                                                                                             Tkikila  A PunckiJaya   L
587 ,,                 Bnee     1                                   Makassar(j          uaKia                                         (00t,
Lampung    JAKARTA                           MM(
0 200  A00 Kilometers    LaSercng o (AIs
I     I    I    I                     1  1 Bndun  emaang   Mada
1 - -3            (D      (SrbaaWeo r                                           Babar   Tanimbor
0   100  200  300  400 Miles          AWA Yugyakarta        1        Lombok Sumbowa              Afor        Mao         Is.
95         100o 005 .tles         AAAYaot                5     Soobk       0o      Fao                                                      MeraukeP   Z
950              00'             1050             14        Denpasar  ataram            nde
PROVINCES:                                                       10,      17         1                  TIMOR-LESTE
23 KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                  Timor
1 NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM  12 JAWA BARAT      24 KALIMANTAN UTARA                               Kupang
2 SUMATERA UTARA         13 JAWA TENGAH        25 SULAWESI UTARA
3 RIAU                   14 D.I. YOGYAKARTA    26 GORONTALO
4 SUMATERA BARAT         15 JAWA TIMUR         27 SULAWESI TENGAH
5 JAMBI                  16 BALI               28 SULAWESI BARAT
6 BENGKULU               17 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT  29 SULAWESI SELATAN
7 SUMATERA SELATAN       18 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR  30 SULAWESI TENGGARA
8 LAMPUNG                19 KEPULAUAN RIAU     31 MALUKU UTARA   15'                                                                                         15F
9 BANGKA-BELITUNG        20 KALIMANTAN BARAT   32 MALUKU
10 BANTEN                21 KALIMANTAN TENGAH  33 PAPUA BARAT                                                       AUSTRALIA
11 D.K.I. JAKARTA        22 KALIMANTAN SELATAN  34 PAPUA                                                                                                         0 o
34PPA115                2'125'                          130'            135'            140'
MunoN


