                               Document of
                               World Bank


                                               Report No.: 97132




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                               INDONESIA

       MANAGING HIGHER EDUCATION FOR RELEVANCE AND
          EFFICIENCY PROJECT (IBRD-47890 - IDA-40770)


                               June 18, 2015




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (IDR)

2005                     US$1.00                IDR 9,470
2013                     US$1.00                IDR 9,718
2014                     US$1.00                IDR 12,264 (Dec. 1, 2014)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB         Asian Development Bank                   ICR           Implementation Completion Report
AHELO       Assessment of Higher Education           IDA           International Development
            Learning Outcomes                                      Association
ASEAN       Association of Southeast Asian           IEG           Independent Evaluation Group
            Nations                                  IEGPS         IEG Public Sector Evaluation
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy              IMF           International Monetary Fund
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy             IT            Information Technology
DGHE        Directorate General Higher               MOEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
            Education                                M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
DGHE-IU     Implementation Unit of DGHE for          MTR           Mid-Term Review
            project                                  NISHE         National Information System
DUE         Development of Undergraduate                           Higher Education
            Education                                OECD          Organization for Economic
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment                              Cooperation and Development
GDLN        Global Development Learning              OU            Open University
            Network                                  PAD           Project Appraisal Document
GOI         Government of Indonesia                  PBC           Performance Based Contract
GPA         Grade Point Average                      PDO           Project Development Objectives
HE          Higher Education                         PPAR          Project Performance Assessment
HELTS       Higher Education Long Term                             Report
            Strategy                                 QUE           Quality of Undergraduate
HEI         Higher Education Institution                           Education project-Indonesia
HEI-IU      Implementation Unit of individual        TA            Technical Assistance
            HEI for project                          TTL           Task Team Leader
IBRD        International Bank for                   WB            World Bank
            Reconstruction and Development



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                   :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :   Mr. Nicholas David York (Acting)
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :   Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                               :   Mr. Erik A. Bloom
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 4
   Relevance of Project Objectives and Design .................................................................. 6
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 7
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 10
   Objective 1 .................................................................................................................... 10
       Outputs ...................................................................................................................... 10
       Outcomes .................................................................................................................. 10
   Objective 2 .................................................................................................................... 11
       Outputs ...................................................................................................................... 12
       Outcomes .................................................................................................................. 13
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 14
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 16
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 16
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 17
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 17
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 18
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 19
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 21
References ......................................................................................................................... 23
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 25
Annex B. Timeline of Events-Indonesia ........................................................................... 28
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 30
Annex D. Borrower Comments ........................................................................................ 34




This report was prepared by Maurice Boissiere, who assessed the project in September 2014, under
supervision of Task Leader, Erik A. Bloom. The report was peer reviewed by Roberta Malee Bassett and
panel reviewed by Monika Huppi. Viktoriya Yevsyeyeva provided administrative support.
                                                         iv


Tables
Table 1.1. Higher Education Institutions by Type (2010) .................................................. 2
Table 2.1. Outline of Project Components at Approval...................................................... 5
Table 2.2. Logical Framework of Project ........................................................................... 7
Table 3.1. Appraisal and Actual Costs by Component (US$ million equivalent) .............. 9
Table 4.1. Distribution of Subproject Grants in Component 2 of Project ........................ 12
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
                                    ICR*               ICR Review*                 PPAR
 Outcome                    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Risk to
 Development                        Significant                       Significant                      Significant
 Outcome
 Bank Performance Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Borrower
                            Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                               Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                    Sector Director                    Country Director
 Appraisal             Richard Hopper/Susiana                Christopher Thomas                    Andrew Steer
                              Iskandar
 Completion                  Ratna Kesuma                       Luis Benveniste                    Stefan Koeberle
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                           vii


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Indonesia Managing
Higher Education for Relevance and Efficiency project. The project was approved on
June 9, 2005, became effective on December 20, 2005, and closed on December 31,
2012, 18 months after the original closing date. The project was financed through IDA
Credit 40770 in the amount of US$30 million, IBRD Loan 47890 in the amount of
US$50 million and a government contribution of US$34.5 million equivalent.

This PPAR was prepared by Maurice Boissiere, IEG consultant. The findings are largely
based on a two-week mission to Indonesia from September 15 - 27, 2014. The mission
met with education and government authorities in Indonesia as well as private business
people. The mission visited six universities in the islands of Java and Sumatra. A list of
persons met is in Annex C. The mission also examined: (a) World Bank project files; (b)
project related reporting and evaluation; and (c) education studies with data by
government, other development partners, and civil society organizations, as well as the
relevant research literature.

IEG gratefully acknowledges the logistical assistance and support of the staff in the
Directorate General of Higher Education, the universities that were visited, and the World
Bank Jakarta office.

Following standard IEG procedures, a copy of the draft PPAR was sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and feedback, and comments received
from the Government have been included in Annex D.
                                             ix


Summary
The objective of this PPAR is to assess the development effectiveness and lessons arising
from the Indonesia Managing Higher Education for Relevance and Efficiency Project
(IMHERE). The project was approved on June 9, 2005, became effective on December
20, 2005, and closed on December 31, 2012, 18 months after the original closing date.
The project at approval was to be financed through IDA Credit 40770 in the amount of
US$30 million, IBRD Loan 47890 in the amount of US$50 million and a government
contribution of US$34.5 million equivalent. At closing, the actual Bank contribution was
US$72.1 million, with US$6.9 million cancelled, and a government contribution of
US$22.4 million.

Country and Sector Background
As the project was undergoing preparation in 2004, Indonesia was going through a
transition towards a more open and decentralized government. These changes resulted
from reforms introduced after the Asian financial crisis in 1997-98 and affected delivery
of public services, including education at all levels. Economic policy is now aimed at
developing a more competitive and technologically oriented economy and raising the
growth rate back to the range of 8 to 9 percent. This project was intended to contribute to
the development of these critical goals, in particular through the development of high
level professional skills demanded in the labor market.

The structure of higher education has evolved rapidly over the past three decades.
Starting out with only three public universities at independence, the Higher Education
(HE) sector has developed to the point that there are now 83 public Higher Education
Institutions (HEIs) and more than 3,000 private ones. HE enrollment was around 3.0
million in 2004, giving a participation rate of 12 percent. Enrollment in 2012 reached
about 5.0 million for a participation rate of 24 percent, and it is estimated that the number
of university graduates doubled between 2004 and 2012. The Higher Education Long
Term Strategy (HELTS) for 2003-2010 focused on developing the autonomy and
accountability of the HEIs so as to facilitate the improvement of quality and relevance
within the sector. Competitive and performance based grants would be used to steer the
behavior of the institutions in the direction of better quality and efficiency.

The Project
The project’s development objectives (stated identically in the Credit Agreement and
Project Appraisal Document) were: “to create an enabling environment for the
evolution of autonomous and accountable public higher education institutions, and
to develop effective support mechanisms for the improvement of quality, relevance,
efficiency and equity of higher education”.

The project as approved had three components: (1) Higher education system reform and
oversight to support implementation of the new Higher Education Long Term Strategy
(2003-2010) to develop autonomous and accountable institutions, (2) Grants for
subprojects to improve academic quality and institutional performance, and (3) Project
Management to support implementation of the project by the DGHE Implementation
                                            x


Unit. The design of the competitive grants part of the project was such that it involved
mainly the public university segment of the HE sector, with some participation of private
universities in grants for improving quality of teacher training programs. Diploma level
training institutions, public or private, did not participate. However, the governance and
accreditation part of the project was designed to impact the whole HE system.

The relevance of project objectives is rated high. The objectives were aligned with the
development priorities of Indonesia as well as the Bank’s strategy, both at time of
approval as well as at completion. The project objectives are also aligned with the
Higher Education Long Term Strategy, which stresses autonomy, accountability, quality,
relevance, efficiency and equity. The relevance of project design was aligned with the
PDO by allowing for appropriate decentralization and accountability of higher education
through a new and strengthened legal framework which also promoted the goals of the
HELTS. The project components and outputs follow a logical framework in which the
grant programs of various kinds contribute to the project objectives, although the project
design could be stronger with respect to risk mitigation measures and monitoring and
evaluation. The relevance of project design is rated substantial.

A number of issues and challenges arose during project implementation. Developing the
legal framework for the HELTS, which was supported by the project objectives, was a
major activity that culminated in the passage of a new Higher Education Law in 2009.
However the law was revoked by the Constitutional Court in 2010. A new version of the
law was drafted and passed by the legislature and signed into law by the President in
August 2012. The new law stipulated that more regulations were to be drafted by the
Ministry of Education, which would then complete the new HE legal framework. The
decision by the Ministry of Finance to prohibit the use of block grants, and had been
allowed in previous Bank supported projects, gave rise to difficulties because it required
a return to the less flexible annual line-item budgeting.

These implementation bottlenecks were analyzed and resolved in the Mid-Term Review,
which resulted in a Level II restructuring in September 2009, meaning that project
objectives were not modified, but activities were modified along with an extension of the
project closing date by 18 months.

The achievements related to Objective 1 (creating an enabling environment for the
evolution of autonomous and accountable public higher education institutions) are rated
as substantial. The outputs include producing major background studies to support the
development of the Higher Education legal framework and the new HE Law, which was
passed in 2012, after the 2009 version was over turned by the Constitutional Court in
2010. Other outputs include the development of a new accreditation framework based
upon institutional accreditation as opposed to the previous academic program
accreditation, which were becoming too numerous and burdensome. These outputs, inter
alia, contributed to the major outcomes, such as the new legal and regulatory
environment. The capacity of HEIs to exercise autonomy along with accountability made
significant progress as a result of the program of grants for institutional capacity.

The achievements related to Objective 2 (developing effective support mechanisms for
the improvement of the quality, relevance, efficiency and equity of higher education) are
                                             xi


rated as modest. While acknowledging the difficulty of measuring such complex
objectives, four proxy indicators were selected for the Subcomponent 2.1, which involved
the subprojects for improving academic quality, relevance and equity. Grade point
average showed an increase of six percent from 2.99 to 3.13 between 2009 and 2012.
Time to find the first job declined from 8.5 months to 5.8 months. Time to graduate also
declined from 56.7 months to 51.6 months. It was not possible to monitor the equity in
the detail that was originally proposed in the PAD; during implementation is became
clear that the baseline value was not valid. This misinterpretation was corrected at MTR,
and it appeared that objective at completion was only partly achieved. Given
shortcomings in the M&E framework, such as lack of comparison group or lack baseline
trends for a few years, attribution of outcomes to the project is difficult.

The project’s efficiency is rated substantial. The project has produced significant
benefits for beneficiaries and the Indonesian economy. Depending on assumptions, the
net present value of the benefits to students would vary from US$47 million to US$164
million. This excludes efficiency gains to the universities as well as economic benefits for
research and development.

Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Quality at entry is moderately
unsatisfactory mainly due to shortcomings in risk assessment related to the legal
framework as well as shortcomings in M&E design. Quality of supervision is rated
moderately satisfactory reflecting proactive superision in recognizing implementation
problems and addressing them during the MTR and restructuring.

Borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The Government
performance is moderately unsatisfactory. Initially, Ministry of Finance and National
Planning Agency played key roles in support of DGHE in preparing the project. Yet the
Ministry of Finance decision to apply the letter of the Finance Law (2003) resulted in
serious bottle necks during implementation, despite having agreed to the block grant
arrangements. The DGHE played the role of overall implementation agency, along with
implementation units of the HEIs. The performance of DGHE in supporting the
procurement of the HEI grants was weak in the early stages. The performance of the
implementation agencies is rated moderately satisfactory.

The overall project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. This is based upon
relevance of the project objectives being high and the relevance of project design being
substantial. The achievement of the first objective was substantial and the second one
was modest. The project’s efficiency, in both external and internal measures, was
substantial. The risk to development outcome is rated significant.

Lessons
A number of lessons can be highlighted based upon the experience of this project.

If legislation is essential to the achievement of reform objectives, it also essential to
have a risk assessment plan that outlines what measures could be taken if the
legislation is not passed. In this project, legislation was essential to project success,
which was made clear in early project preparation documents and then mentioned in risk
                                            xii


assessment table of the PAD. Many people with whom the mission met thought that the
project should not be held responsible for passing legislation since what happens in the
legislature is beyond control of the project. While all stakeholders agreed that placing
conditionality on the approval legislation was neither desirable nor feasible, the project
design could have including more contingency planning.

In situations where procurement is decentralized, it is never too early to start
procurement planning and training to build up decentralized capacity. Procurement
became a serious challenge early in the project. The HEIs were not ready to assume
responsibility for procurement, especially given complicated Bank guidelines. Despite
the fact that low procurement capacity was highlighted in the PAD, the project planned
little in the way of capacity building. Delays in procurement can be serious enough to risk
achievement of grant objectives and therefore the project objectives. The lack of capacity
was one of the leading reasons that the tracer survey could not be carried out during
project implementation, which weaked the M&E system. If preparation grants are
available, pilot grants and procurements can be undertaken to test out the grant
procedures and to harmonize Bank procurement and national procurement guidelines
where possible.

M&E planning should also begin early in project preparation, even during the
analytic phases of sector work to establish what trend data is available as potentially
useful as indicators. The indicators chosen for measuring achievement of PDOs, as is
often the case, presented difficulty in attributing outcomes to project interventions,
although arguments in terms of plausibility can still be made. No control groups were
used or attempted. In such situations, which are common for complex projects, it is
useful to assemble baseline trend data prior to the project interventions, as opposed to a
single data point at the start of the project, such as GPA or time to first job. Also, it is
important to assess the capacity of the country to measure important variables.Then
resources needed to bolster this capacity could be included in the project. In addition,
procurement can play a major role in developing an M&E system. The lack of
procurement capacity delayed the implementation of the tracer survey, which is a critical
element in higher education.




                                                                    Caroline Heider
                                                                    Director-General
                                                                       Evaluation
                                                      1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Country and Economic Context. When the Indonesia Managing Higher Education
for Relevance and Efficiency Project (IMHERE) was undergoing preparation in 2004,
Indonesia was going through a transition towards a more open and decentralized government.
These changes resulted from reforms introduced after the Asian financial crisis in 1997-98
and affected delivery of public services, including education at all levels. The economy
recovered from the 1997-98 financial crisis as a result of strong Government of Indonesia
(GOI) reforms and financial support from the IMF, the Bank, and bilateral partners. From
2003 to 2012 the country had economic growth on average 5.7 percent annually versus an
average of 8.0 percent from 1990-1996. However, the next global financial crisis in 2008-09
impacted Indonesia. Economic policy is now aimed at developing a more competitive and
technologically oriented economy, raising the growth rate back to range prior to the financial
crisis. This project was intended to contribute to the development of these critical goals.

1.2      Indonesia is the fourth most populous country in the world. However, 60 percent of
the population live on the island of Java and another 22 percent on the larger island of
Sumatra. The capital Jakarta, on the island of Java, makes up one of the world’s largest
mega-cities having a population of roughly 10 million and much more if the larger metro-
area is included. Population growth has slowed down to about one percent annually,
although there is still some demographic momentum built into the labor force growth, which
presents the challenge of job creation for a young cohort for some years to come.

1.3     Since independence in 1945, despite periods of low economic growth and high
inflation, the economy of the country has generally made progress. Indonesia is now a
middle income country with Gross National Income per capita around US$3,420 in 2012 and
a population of 250 million, spread over a wide archipelago. With a Gross Domestic Product
of US$884 billion (2012, at market exchange rates), Indonesia is also the largest economy in
Southeast Asia and 10th largest global economy. With the start-up of the Association of South
East Asia Nations (ASEAN) Economic Community in 2015, there will be more freedom of
trade as well as movement for labor, requiring economic adjustments for Indonesia. Overall,
this gives Indonesia considerable potential, but to take full advantage of this potential, many
observers cite the need for increasing and upgrading its infrastructure for transport and
telecommunications, reforming the regulatory environment for business, and improving its
human capital, especially high-level professional and technical.1

1.4    Higher Education Sector. The structure of tertiary education has evolved rapidly
over the past three decades. Starting out with only three public universities at the time of
independence, the HE sector has developed to the point that there are now 83 public Higher
Education Institutions (HEIs) and more than 3,000 private ones. Both private and public


1
  Shortage of high level human capital as a constraint on growth was a persistent theme in discussions with
individuals and organizations during the PPAR mission. Recent analytical work confirmed this, such as
“Tertiary Education in Indonesia” (World Bank 2014), “Avoiding the Trap” (World Bank 2014), “Impact of
U.S. Foreign Direct Investment on the Indonesian Economy” (USAID 2013), and “How Could Indonesia
Improve its Productivity and Competitiveness” (Employers Association of Indonesia. 2013).
                                                         2


HEIs are required to the meet the standards of the National Higher Education Accreditation
Board, which started in 1994 by a decree of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC).

1.5    Tertiary enrollment was around 3.0 million in 2004, giving a participation rate of 12
percent, which was low compared to Southeast Asian countries. Enrollment in 2012 reached
about 5.0 million for a participation rate of 24 percent. Private institutions enrolled 2.9
million, 58 percent of total enrollment. The number of university graduates doubled between
2004 and 2012. The structure of the HE sector is complex as shown in table 1.1.

Table 1.1. Higher Education Institutions by Type (2010)
    Type                                        Public        Private
    Academies                                        0           1,015
    Polytechnics                                    27             140
    Advanced schools                                2            1,314
    Institutes                                      6              47
    Universities                                    48             412
    Total                                           83           3,011
Source: (World Bank 2014 based on MOEC data).

1.6     There are five categories of HEIs in the table above:2 (1) academies, which offer
single profile training programs at the diploma level (below that of a university degree),
which can range from a one year course (Diploma 1) to 3 years (Diploma 3); (2)
polytechnics, which are often attached to a university and also provided a diploma level of
training; (3) advanced schools, which also offer single profile training but usually at a high
level of training (Diploma 4 for four years, almost equivalent to a university level in the
single field); (4) institutes that can be a technological equivalent of a university; and (5)
fully comprehensive universities, such as the older established universities, offering degrees
from bachelor to doctoral level. Community colleges, which were recently authorized by the
2012 HE Law, are in the process of being established. The Open University, which has more
than 500,000 students enrolled, caters mostly to working adults, most of whom are teachers
seeking to upgrade their credentials.

1.7      Until the late 1990s administration of the HEIs was centralized within the DGHE, but
as the trend toward decentralization developed after the financial and political crisis in 1997-
98, in HE this took the form of aiming for more institutional autonomy for the long
established HEIs, with the aim of the less strong ones evolving towards autonomy over time.
The rationale is that more institutional autonomy, which is a trend in many countries, would
allow the HEIs to improve their quality and respond better to the economy and labor market
and broader social needs, such as serious inequality of access to HE with the lower income
quintiles, rural areas, and the outer islands being very under-represented in both public and

2
 Many observers divide the university segment of HE into 3 tiers: the elite public universities (about 5 to 7),
another 47-49 public universities of mixed quality, and another set of institutions administered by other
government agencies. Although private universities are relatively recent, a few have been established for
decades and are recognized for quality (see D. Suryadarma and G.Jones, 2013).
                                             3


private HEIs. These developments in the mid-1990s became known as the New Paradigm
for HE, and were formalized in the Higher Education Long Term Strategy (see below) and
are cited in the Bank project documents.

1.8     Since autonomous public HEIs were established by special decree in 1999, the legal
framework had become complex and marked by contradictions among laws and regulations,
especially some regulations related to financial management of HEIs. Line-item budgets
were the norm during the period of central control by DGHE, but block grant funding was
introduced selectively during the 1990s for some donor financed projects involving
competitive grants for specific purposes, like research. The Higher Education Long Term
Strategy (HELTS) of 2003-2010 emphasized that a new legal framework was needed for HE
so as to provide autonomy along with accountability to allow for a more effective response
by HEIs to economic and social demands. This led up to the passage of the HE Law of 2009,
which was soon overturned in 2010 by the Constitutional Court. Another law was drafted
and passed by Parliament in July 2012 and signed by the president in August 2012.

1.9    HE sector within context of overall education system. The HE sector must be
viewed in the context of the other sectors of the whole education system. Indonesia
expanded lower levels of education rapidly during the late 1970s and 1980s, with its well-
known school building program based upon financing from oil revenues. Primary education
is now universal, with a gross enrollemt role of 112 percent (2010), up from around 80
percent in 1970. The gross enrollment rate for senior is around 63 percent (2010), up from
15 percent (1970).

1.10 The Bank did an analysis of education expenditures that indicated there is much room
for improving how money is spent (World Bank 2013). The Indonesian constitution
(amended in 2002) stipulates that 20 percent of the budget must be allocated to education at
all levels and types. However, the government budget overall is constrained by the low level
of tax revenues collected relative to Gross Domestic Product (15.2 percent). The
decentralization of basic education finance since the early 2000s has also created a complex
system of transfers that does not promote effectiveness of education spending. Within these
complex issues of education finance, the appropriate allocation at all levels is a critical
challenge. More autonomy for the HEIs can help in that they would have more scope for
revenue generation and charging appropriate tuition, although increases in tuition have been
resisted to some extent by some sectors of the public.

1.11 World Bank and other donors in education. The Bank has been involved in the
HE sector since 1980 when the first HE project was initiated (see Time Line of events in
Annex B) and thus had developed considerable experience with Indonesian HE. The initial
projects were standard investment operations with pre-determined components and inputs,
with a great deal of overseas fellowships to build up HE faculty. As the Bank developed its
higher education policy (see “Higher Education: the Lessons of Experience” (1994)) and
Indonesia’s thinking grew more sophisticated based upon experience, the New Paradigm era
came about with substantial agreement on the main elements of reform.

1.12    This project is the fourth in a sequence of New Paradigm era projects (starting
around the mid-1990s), which initiated new policies such as competitive grants financing and
                                                4


encouraged more HEI autonomy and capacity development. These projects were: University
Research for Graduate Education for US$109 million (approved 1994, closed 2001),
Development of Undergraduate Education for US$102 million (approved 1997, closed 2002),
and Quality of Undergraduate Education for US$98 million (approved 1998, closed 2004).
Improving the quality and relevance of higher education was an objective in all of these
projects, as well as efficiency. These projects were all completed with a satisfactory rating,
despite the impacts of the 1997 Asian financial crisis which led to their actual costs being
below the appraisal cost. Lessons learned in these projects, especially with regard to
competitive grants for research, academic programs and institutional capacity were useful for
the IMHERE project. These projects focused on the public universities and institutes, which
comprise but one segment, albeit a very important one, of a larger HEI sector as described
above. IMHERE, however, did allow private universities to compete for grants supporting
teacher training programs.

1.13 In addition to the support for HE projects referred to above, the Bank has also been
involved in the education sector as a whole, covering primary and secondary education, and
recently providing more support for early childhood education. Quality of education at all
levels became a concern, especially after a number of assessments, both domestic and
international, showed that despite expansion of access and coverage, much more needed to
be done in terms of learning achievement. In addition to an active portfolio of projects, the
Bank has conducted an extensive program of analytical work across all levels of education.

1.14 The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is active in the education sector as a whole,
ADB supported only one project in HE since 2000, the Technological and Professional Skills
Development project (2000 -2006) which involved competitive grants. The major bilateral
donors include Australia, Japan and USA. Australia is beginning a program of support to
private HEIs for improvement in quality and relevance through a program of competitive
grants to institutions based upon proposals they would submit. Japan has been active mainly
in the scientific, technical and medical fields. Most recently its largest project was to support
University of Indonesia and Institute of Technology in Bandung. The United States has had a
number of programs with the HE sector.

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1     The project’s objectives (stated identically in the Credit Agreement and the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD)) were: “to create an enabling environment for the evolution
of autonomous and accountable public higher education institutions, and to develop
effective support mechanisms for the improvement of quality, relevance, efficiency and
equity of higher education”. The PDO provides a clear statement of objectives, which can
be divided into two main objectives for the purpose of this assessment. Objective 1 involves
the creation of an enabling environment for the evolution of autonomous and accountable
public HEIs, and Objective 2 involves the development of effective support mechanisms for
the improvement of quality, relevance, efficiency and equity. The project components and
subcomponents are clearly aimed at “creating an enabling environment” and “developing
effective support mechanisms”. There were no formal definitions given of these concepts in
the project documents, but the indicators adopted and the description of activities implicitly
                                                           5


give specific operational meaning to objectives, such as improved learning indicated by
increased Grade Point Averages (GPA).

2.2     The project as approved had three components: (1) Higher education system reform
and oversight to support implementation of the new Higher Education Long Term Strategy
(2003-2010) to develop autonomous and accountable institutions; (2) Grants for subprojects
to improve academic quality and institutional performance; and (3) Project Management to
support implementation of the project by the DGHE Implementation Unit. The design of the
competitive grants part of the project was such that it involved mainly the public university
segment of the HE sector, with some participation of private universities in grants for
improving quality of teacher training programs. Diploma level training institutions, public or
private, did not participate. However, the governance and accreditation part of the project
was designed to impact the whole HE system.

Table 2.1. Outline of Project Components at Approval
  Component 1: HE System                    Component 2: Subprojects for
  Reform & Oversight ($8.8                  Academic Programs and                 Component 3: Project
  million)                                  Institutions ($97.9million)           Management ($7.8 million)
 (a) Legal Framework                       2.1 Academic program                  Training and TA to support
 background work                           improvement grants (competition       DGHE-IU to carry out project
  (b) Financial Management                 stratified by level of HEI            oversight.
 within DGHE & public HEIs                 capacity). Subproject Grants for      3.1 Training for DGHE in its
 (c) NISHE capacity, including             priority fields of science,           new role.
 tracer survey (d) Policy                  engineering and teacher training.     3.2 Training HEI-
 evaluation                                                                      Implementing Units for
                                                                                 accountability.
 Accreditation shift to                    2.2 Institutional capacity
 institutional basis instead of            development subprojects for
 academic programs.                        autonomous and non-autonomous
 Support for the Accreditation             HEIs
 Board.                                    2.2a. Competitive institutional
                                           subprojects for non-autonomous
                                           HEIs
                                           2.2b. Institutional subprojects for
                                           autonomous HEIs
                                           2.2c. Performance Based
                                           Contracts for autonomous HEIs.
 1.3 Open University
 Revitalization Plan
Source: Based upon Project Appraisal Document.

2.3    Component 1: Subcomponent 1.1 would modernize higher education sector
oversight and management by implementing the legal framework for Higher Education Long
Term Strategy. This would involve: (a) developing a revised legal framework for sector
governance, (b) improving financial management within the DGHE and individual public
HEIs, (c) expanding data collection capacity of the National Information System for Higher
                                              6


Educations (NISHE) to include tracer studies of graduates, and (d) supporting a strategy to
scale up reforms based upon evidence of effectiveness, especially financing innovations.

2.4     Subcomponent 1.2 would support a transition to emphasize institutional
accreditation and licensing of professional fields as compared to the previous system of
accreditation of study programs, which created overwhelming volume of reviews. This
would make the load more manageable and is more aligned with the move to institutional
autonomy. The National Higher Education Accreditation Board (BAN-PT, Indonesian
acronym in project documents) had received support for this from ADB, which would be as
part of this project. Professional licensing would be integrated into the BAN-PT
accreditation system. BAN-PT would also acquire its own institutional autonomy, including
generating revenue to support its mission.

2.5    Subcomponent 1.3 would develop and adopt a comprehensive revitalization plan for
the Open University (OU) of Indonesia. The OU also reaches students in remote areas where
HE options are limited. There were 35 Regional Learning Centers (RLCs) that deliver texts
and exams across the country. The strategy and plan to revitalize the OU would be
developed through this subcomponent in broad consultation with stakeholders.

2.6      Component 2: This component would have four categories of subproject grants: (1)
Subcomponent 2.1- competitive grants for subprojects to improve quality in priority
academic programs of engineering, science and teacher training (for which private HEIs were
eligible to support improvement of teacher quality in basic and secondary education), (2)
Subcomponent 2.2a -competitive grants for subprojects to strengthen institutional
management in non-autonomous public HEIs, (3) Subcomponent 2.2b -proposal based
subproject grants for strengthening institutional management at autonomous HEIs, and (4)
Subcomponent 2.2c- performance based contract (PBC) grants for autonomous HEIs that
successfully completed a grant under subcomponent 2.2b, qualifying them for a more
advanced form of institutional funding that would be extended as autonomy progressed. The
grant proposals also would address equity concerns by showing how the HEIs would recruit
and provide scholarships for students from lower income families or from rural areas.

2.7     Component 3: This component would provide support to the Implementation Unit in
DGHE to assist in overall project management, strategic planning procurement and financial
management. The implementation units in each HEI also would need support and training in
these same areas, but at the institutional level.

Relevance of Project Objectives and Design
2.8     The relevance of project objectives to the country and sector strategies is rated
high. The PDO was consistent with Indonesia’s development priorities at the time of
appraisal and remained so until project closure. The Bank’s CAS in 2003, and updated
again in the Country Partnership Strategy (2012), emphasized the need for improving the
level of human resources in the context of developing economic competitiveness and
technology innovation. The HELTS emphasized developing HEI autonomy and
accountability as an effective way to allow HEIs to respond to economic and social needs
while improving quality and relevance of HE programs. The project also addresses the CAS
                                                                    7


objective of improving governance through building more effective and efficient public
sector institutions. The more recent sector work underscores the continued relevance of the
project objectives to the on-going challenges for the HE sector and the overall economy.

2.9     The relevance of project design is rated substantial. The project design allowed for
appropriate decentralization of the HE sector through a new and strengthened legal
framework while at the same time developing the capacity of individual HEIs to respond to
incentives provided in the grants programs. In order to clarify the relevance of design to
objectives, Table 2.2 below outlines the simplified Logical Framework, showing the causal
chain from the bottom row of inputs to the next row of project outputs to top row of
outcomes. In this framework, the outcomes are directly related to the two PDOs and the
outputs are what the project components/subcomponents are responsible to produce. Some
outputs can contribute to both PDOs, such as the institutional accreditation, which can help
improve both accountability and quality. However, project design could have been stronger
on the risk mitigation measures and also monitoring and evaluation.

Table 2.2. Logical Framework of Project
          Objective 1: Create an enabling
                                                                            Objective 2: Develop effective support
          environment for the evolution of
                                                                            mechanisms for improvement of quality,
          autonomous and accountable public
                                                                            relevance, efficiency, and equity of HE.
          HEIs.
         Improved legal environment for                                    Improved learning as indicated by GPA,
         autonomy and accountability.                                      Less time to get job,
 Outcome Increase in number of autonomous HEIs.                            Less time to graduate,
         Improved accountability capacity via                              Greater participation of poor in higher
         improved audits and transparency.                                 education
               Background studies to support drafting of
                                                                           Research
               new legal framework.
                                                                           Improved teaching
               Revised HE law and implementing
                                                                           More scholarships for poor students.
 Outputs       regulations.
                                                                           New system of Institutional accreditation.
               Subprojects for institutional capacity
                                                                           Development of strategic plan to modernize
               development.
                                                                           and revitalize the Open University.
               New accreditation system
                                                                           Grants for sub-projects to equipment,
               Training, technical assistance and                          computers, training.
 Inputs
               computers provided where needed.                            Grants for student aid
                                                                           Technical assistance
Source: Derived by author from PAD with some modification. The PAD treats the HE Law as an outcome, but here it is treated as an
output. Also, grants here are used to mean more than just the finance inputs, but refer to the substantive subprojects, hence the use of
the term “subproject grants.”


3. Implementation
3.1     The project was approved on June 9, 2005 and became effective December 20, 2005
for a total cost of US$114.5 million with an IDA credit of US$30 million, an IBRD loan of
US$50 million, and the remaining US$34.5 million equivalent from the government
contribution. All conditions listed for effectiveness, including appointment of head of the
                                              8


implementation unit (DHGE-IU director), were satisfied. The project was rated satisfactory
in the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) throughout most of implementation, except for a
brief period. Disbursements were slow initially, picked up after Mid-Term Review (MTR)
resolved some procurement issues, and also after some restructuring of component activities.
The project was due to close June 30, 2011, but this was extended by 18 months to December
31, 2012. The IDA credit was spent except for US$45,000. US$6.9 million were cancelled
from the IBRD loan, mainly due to changes in Component 1.

3.2     Developing a revised legal framework that would enable the evolution of autonomous
and accountable institutions was a major activity that culminated in the passage of a new HE
Law in December 2009. The law was also intended to harmonize previous laws that
sometimes contradicted each other. However, the new law was revoked by the
Constitutional Court in March 2010 for a variety of reasons, including the opinion of the
court that the law was poorly drafted and unclear and could be interpreted to
“commercialize” HE, at variance with the constitutional provision for affordable access. This
law was also criticized for being too broad with the possibility that it can be applied to all
levels of education. A new law applying only for HE was drafted, addressing the issues
raised by the Constitutional Court. It was passed in July 2012 and signed by the President in
August 2012. Most of the implementing regulations have been completed and there are
indications that this law will allow for more flexibility of institutional autonomy and
accountability. However, during the period 2010 – 2012, the reversal of the law presented
challenges and necessary adaptations of project activities, especially implementation of
grants under Component 2. Given that the evolution of autonomous HEIs was a major
objective, that part of the PDO was in jeopardy of not being achieved.

3.3     There were two studies envisioned under subcomponent 1.1 which could not be
completed. The comparative study of differing funding mechanisms (line item, block grant
and performance base contracts) was not able to be undertaken after the MOF put a stop to
block grant funding. The tracer study under the NISHE experienced a number of problems
that prevented its taking place before project completion. A data collection blue print was
completed by 2010, but the Bank team had doubts about the questionnaire being useful for
comparative purposes at the national level. Nonetheless, the NISHE informed the mission
that they intended to complete and institutionalize the tracer study soon. Also, the mission
was informed that the department for academic affairs within DGHE works directly with the
HEIs in completing the data. They expect more cooperation from the HEIs than previously
since the requirement to report to NISHE is part of the HE Law 2012.

3.4     Another challenge encountered during implementation was the 2009 decision by the
MOF to prohibit block grant funding and require the return to annual line-item funding. This
decision came about as a result of the MOF interpreting the financial and budget laws in a
way that did not allow for block grants to HEIs, even though the practice had been allowed in
the previous Bank supported HE projects. This line-item budgeting was counter to the goal
of flexible management and created execution delays due to additional steps in the approval
process. The project provided TA and training to the HEI staff to adjust budgets and
timelines.
                                             9


3.5     Procurement also proved to be a challenge during implementation. Part of this was
due to the inexperience of the HEI staff with Bank procurement requirements and the lack of
capacity within the DGHE-IU to review and assist so many of the HEI proposals. Initially,
procurement documents were sent to the Bank without sufficient screening, causing back and
forth while the documents were being reviewed. Another significant factor was the
cumbersome procurement procedures of the Bank and long delays in the Bank’s review
process. It was reported to the mission that sometimes the Bank procurement team took
months to respond, during which time the bidders said they could not maintain their prices.
These issues were analyzed and resolved after the mid-term review and project restructuring.

3.6     As a result of the MTR in September 2009 there was a Level II restructuring of the
project to address implementation difficulties, but the PDO was not modified. Three
activities were added under component 1: (1) the Global Development Learning Network
(GDLN), which aims to connect univerisities through out the world and promote south-south
collaboration, received funding to add six new learning centers to the existing network; (2)
the OU received funding for more overseas fellowships to faculty members to strengthen its
curricula and technical capacity, and (3) more TA, focusing on strengthening financial
management, for DGHE . This allowed for more access to HE for remote communities via
distance education. Under component 3, additional funding was provided to bolster
procurement capacity in both the DGHE-IU and HEIs. The restructuring also addressed the
2009 MOF decision to stop block grants and return to line-item budgets. The extension of
the project allowed additional time to make up for implementation delays. Most activities
were implemented by project closing. Table 3.1 shows those components where the actual
expenditure differs most from the planned.

Table 3.1. Appraisal and Actual Costs by Component (US$ million equivalent)
                                           Appraisal                          Percentage of
                                           Estimate            Actual           Appraisal
Component 1: HE System Reform                  8.8                2.1              24.1%
Component 2: Grants                              97.9             82.7             84.5%
Component 3: Project Management                  7.8              7.7              97.8%
Total Project Costs                           114.5              92.5             80.8%
Total Financing Required                      114.5              92.5             80.8%

3.7     Fiduciary and Safeguard Issues. The project design called for attention to fiduciary
issues such as financial management, procurement and corruption. Bank financial
management specialists and procurement specialists prepared detailed provisions for the
operation of the project. There was an anti-corruption plan prepared as part of the
implementation plan for the project. The project did not trigger environmental or other
safeguards.
                                              10


4. Achievement of the Objectives
Objective 1
4.1    The first objective was to create an enabling environment for the evolution of
autonomous and accountable public higher education institutions. Based upon
consideration of the outputs and outcomes as discussed below, Objective 1 is rated as
substantial.

OUTPUTS

4.2      For the purpose of assessing the M&E design, the output and outcome indicators as
listed in the project Logical Framework is given in the M&E section (see Section 6), and they
are referenced in the discussion below as needed. A major output for this objective was
the HE Law in 2012 and associated implementation regulations along with the support
provided by the project in the form background studies, seminars, study tours and special
reports. Another output was the training provided in key areas of evolution of
autonomy such as financial management and procurement. The transition to institutional
accreditation (from the previous academic program based accreditation) has also added to the
accountability of institutions in that HEIs will have to account to the public for the resources
they bring to the educational enterprise as institutions. More than 50% of the procurement
staff in 28 of 29 participating staff were certified in national procurement guidelines and
practices and many staff also received training in Bank procurement, especially after MTR
when procurement problems were addressed. The development and completion of the
revitalization plan for the Open University was also a major output completed as part
of subcomponent 1.3.

4.3      Another output was the development of a methodology for conducting a tracer
survey of graduates, even though this was not yet fully institutionalized in the NISHE at
project closing. The tracer survey was delayed due to difficulties in finding an appropriate
firm. The survey was begun approximately one month before project closing. The NISHE
informed the mission that it was close to finishing this task. Nonetheless, the mission in its
visits found that individual universities used their own tracer information on the employment
of their graduates and were more aware of the need to follow labor market conditions as a
result of the project supervision efforts emphasizing the importance of labor market
information. Another planned study comparing different methods of financing
programs—traditional line item, block grants, and performance-based grants—could
not be completed. This was due to the cancellation of block grant financing by the MOF.

OUTCOMES

4.4      As a result of the HE Law, the legal environment has improved. The seven HEIs
that previously attained autonomy through the ministerial decree retained that status and
other strong HEIs were then able to see their way to attaining autonomy. Indonesian
counterparts and observers described how the project’s technical assistance available helped
in the technical background work for the law. The support of the project brought together
major actors and stakeholders, which built consensus. This comes after having the first
                                               11


attempt passed in 2009 having been overturned by the Constitutional Court (see
implementation section). Nearly all of the regulations and decrees in the 2012 law were
completed in the last two years as the momentum for reform carried over into the period after
the project closure. To date, 11 universities have received the status of autonomy under
the new law and now have a clearer legal environment within which to operate. As
other HEIs develop their capacity, they can become eligible for the status of autonomy.
Despite the twists and turns of the legal process over the past few years, there appears to be a
guarded optimism at present among knowledgeable observers that the 2012 law can
withstand potential legal challenges and provide the enabling framework for the evolution of
autonomous HEIs.

4.5     Other outcomes that reflect progress in improving accountability. The 29 non-
autonomous HEIs whose institutional sub-projects received grants developed a number of
capacities, for example, improvements in financial and physical asset management,
development of Standard Operating Procedures across the academic departments,
development of strategic and business plans for the institution. Out of the seven autonomous
HEIs receiving the second type of grant for institutional development sub-projects, six
successfully completed them and were eligible to apply for the PBC type sub-projects. The
project also granted addition grants (known as performance-based contracts) to five
autonomous universities who applied for it. The application process for these grants was
more rigorous and universities had to demonstrate their capacity to act autonomously with
accountability. The universities that the were awarded grants proposed their own sub-project
objectives and submitted their completion reports that documented the achievements of their
targets. Although these targets varied, they covered research, student selection, revenue
generating activities, employability, and social responsibility (including equity scholarships).
Overall, the sub-projects reached 90 percent of the key performance indicators.

4.6     Accreditation was awarded to 52 public and 42 private universities on the basis
of their overall institutional capacity and quality. The target for institutional accreditation
was 5 percent of public and private HEIs (according to the PAD), which was easily exceeded
for the public sector but not for the private sector (target was 150, achievement was 42). As
part of accountability and showing transparency, 83 percent of participating universities
published the results of their major procurements, compared to a baseline of none and a
target of 100 percent. Unqualified audit reports were received in seven universities (versus a
baseline of none and target of five). There was also an improvement in procurement, by 2012
86 percent of procurement by participating universities occurred within the bid validity
period, compared to a target of 90 percent to be reached in 2010. At the time of the midterm
(2008), 42 percent of procurement was carried in the bid validity period; by 2010, this was
reported at 82 percent. Given the limited procurement capacity at the start of the project, this
last indicator represents significant progress. The achievement of objective 1 is rated as
substantial.

Objective 2
4.7    The second objective was to develop effective support mechanisms for the
improvement of the quality, relevance, efficiency and equity of higher education. Based
upon the outputs and outcomes below, Objective 2 is rated as modest.
                                              12


OUTPUTS

4.8     The major outputs aimed at achieving this end were the outputs of various sub-
projects supported by grants (four categories) awarded to the HEIs. There were 38
competitive subproject grants for a total of US$42.8 million that were awarded under the
category of grants to improve academic programs and equity. This was done in four batches
or rounds of competition for academic program grants which put priority on engineering,
science and teacher training (private HEIs could apply for teacher training grants).
Improving quality of teacher training received the largest share (32 percent) of grants while
engineering, agriculture and natural sciences each received 14 percent, and small percentages
to other fields. The project also provided 41 institutional improvement grants, including five
performance-based grants (the most ambitious type of institutional grant) to autonomous
universities. The new accreditation system was an output that also supported improved
quality as well as efficiency. Under the new system, the institutions would prepare a self-
evaluation and strategic plan while undergoing an external evaluation.

4.9     There were three categories of subproject grants for improving institutional
performance. There was one category for non-autonomous public HEIs to improve their
finances, human resources, procurement and quality assurance to better prepare them for a
move to autonomy. In this category, 29 grants for US$13.5 million were awarded out of 115
proposals submitted over three batches of competition. This type of subproject grant, which
was new to the institutions, provided technical assistance for staff development, IT
infrastructure and software, and policy studies. A second category of institutional capacity
grant was provided to the seven autonomous public universities. Each grant required the
university to make a formal proposal that was reviewed by a selection committee. The
competitive process helped to improve the quality of the grants, however the government
stopped providing competitive grants due to changes in the legal framework as well as
changes in government priorities. The subproject grants are summarized in table 4.1.

Table 4.1. Distribution of Subproject Grants in Component 2 of Project
                                                              Amount
                                      No. of Subproject                     Percent of Award
 Type of Grant                                               Awarded
                                           Grants                                Spent
                                                           (US$ millions)
Academic Programs                             38               42.8               85%
Institutional (Non-autonomous
                                              29                13.5              86%
HEIs)
Institutional (Autonomous HEIs)               7                  4.6              79%
Performance Based Contracts
                                              5                 13.9             105%
(Autonomous HEIs)
Total                                         79                74.7              88%


4.10 The grants generally supported a wide range of activities, generating different
outputs. For example, in the University of Bogor, the project supported four elements in a
grant aimed at improving agricultures—the research led to 34 publications completed by
                                                     13


2011 with additional output expected. In total, the project supported 1,450 research projects
(compared to a target of 1,380). This included support for students in preparing their
graduation projects as well as support for research teams.

OUTCOMES

4.11 Quality in HE is difficult to measure, even though many HE projects state quality
among their objectives. As an indicator of improved academic program quality, as
specified in the project results framework, grade point average was used as a proxy.
This measure increased by six percent from 2.99 to 3.17 (compared to target of 3.13)
between 2009 and 2012. This was done for those students participating in the academic
quality grant program (under component 2.1), and there was no control group for
comparison. Thus the possibility of other sources of increased GPA, such as grade inflation
or the impact on quality of the previous HE projects (like Indonesia-Quality of
Undergraduate Education), could not be ruled out. The mission also asked about using trend
data about GPAs in the years before the grants, which was possible according to the HEIs
that were visited, and which could have helped to spot grade inflation prior to the project.
When asked about the improvement in quality due to the project, the response was
unanimous that the project grants did contribute in a major way to improved quality. It is
plausible to attribute some of the GPA increase to the subproject grants.

4.12 Quality in the HE literature generally involves the teaching and learning environment,
research by faculty and students, and knowledge services to the broader society (for example,
disseminating research through agricultural extension and consulting with local firms and
government). There was general agreement during the visits to universities that quality
involved improved teaching, learning and research along with better inputs, such as
computers and equipment, and training for teaching staff. Many voiced the opinion that the
final year research project, which is required of all students, showed definite improvement as
students benefited from the grants to conduct their research. Ideally, some assessment of
actual learning should be used, but it is difficult to develop standardized assessments of
learning achievement. This problem of measuring learning achievement exists in the high
income countries, which are just beginning to experiment with such standard assessments
tests, like the OECD’s Assessment of Higher Education Learning Outcomes (AHELO)3. No
Middle Income or Lower Income country has successfully done anything similar to AHELO
and it would have been almost impossible for Indonesia to do so in such a short time.

4.13 An outcome indicator for the relevance and efficiency objective is time to find
employment for graduates, which declined from the baseline 8.5 months to 5.8 months,
versus a target of 7.6 months (which was a 10 percent reduction). Again, lack of controls
make causality difficult to establish and to disentangle other factors such as economic growth
and labor market performance. If tracer studies had been completed, it might have given
more information to factor into an assessment of relevance. However, a recent Bank labor
market study (World Bank 2014) and mission discussions with employers indicate there is
still a serious mismatch in the labor market, giving rise to shortages of high level skilled

3
  AHELO imeasures learning achievement in specific fields of study, to measure the quality of teaching and
learning. Initially AHELO will focus on economics and engineering as well as assessing baic skills.
                                               14


labor, which could be a factor in the decrease in time to get a job. As an indicator of internal
efficiency, average time to graduate decreased from the baseline 56.7 months to 51.6 months
versus the target of 54 months (which was a 10 percent reduction).

4.14 Beyond the official indicators, the mission also observed other evidence of improved
relevance during its visits to universities and in discussions with other stakeholders. In
addition to improving the labor market relevance in terms of priority fields (science,
engineering and teacher training) as evidenced by the demand for science and engineering by
firms, the larger universities are engaging in more entrepreneurial activities related to their
research and new academic fields of study. The Universitas Indonesia used one of its grants
to encourage IT business start-ups among its students. Universitas Gadja Mada used one of
its grants to set up an IT company that provides services to other universities and businesses
and already employs about 100 staff. The Faculty of Pharmacy at Universitas Gadja Mada is
also developing herbal products to address a number of health problems, including diabetes
and heart disease. While the mission was not able to conduct a large statistical sample, based
upon the institutions visited, the evidence does point towards a change in attitude and culture
taking place within the HE sector, especially in the stronger and more established HEIs. The
grant recipients explained that these results, especially student research, would not be
possible without the resources and incentives provided by the project.

4.15 The equity element of Objective 2 was considered a very important one by the both
Bank and the Government. Each grant proposal had to indicate how the HEI would respond
to the equity objective. Despite a problem in establishing a baseline for the indicator, some
progress has been made, since this was clarified at MTR and the project team made efforts to
improve. The original idea was to increase the share of low income groups to be 20 percent
of enrollment. Available statistical and institutional data does not allow for this to be done
year by year. The latest available data from household surveys (2010) showed that only 5
percent of the HE enrollment comes from the lowest income quintile. The HEIs have
responded creatively by using outreach to the secondary schools to make low income
families more aware of their possibilities. Some HEIs have experimented with the practice
of home visits to assess the income status of the families since income tax or other official
data do not exist. As evidence of its commitment to this equity objective, the Government
has also instituted its own means-tested scholarship scheme based upon this project (Bidik
Misi). The Government understands that one of the major constraint is the low share of low-
income students who graduate from secondary. As a result of this experience, efforts to
expand secondary school to poor, rural areas and distant outer islands are being increased.
Overall, the achievement of Objective 2 is rated as being modest.

5. Efficiency
5.1    Efficiency is rated as substantial.

5.2     Overall, the project has produced significant benefits for beneficiaries and the
Indonesian economy. Depending on assumptions, the net present value of the benefits to
students would vary from US$47 million to US$164 million. This excludes efficiency gains
to the universities as well as economic benefits for research and development.
                                              15


External Efficiency

5.3     Investing in education generates individual and social benefits. Individual benefits
generally include higher wages and more employment options. A higher education project
may increase access, allowing more students to benefit from higher education. Likewise, a
project may lead to higher income due to improved education relevance and quality. The
social benefits includes the education’s contribution to improving labor productivity and
promoting innovation. Education plays a major role in the study of economic growth.

5.4    The PAD included an analysis of the estimated individual benefits. The base estimate
assumed that the project would benefit students through higher education quality, leading to a
wage increase 15 percent, although several lower alternatives were considered. Based on the
assumptions, the PAD estimates that the rate of return varies between 25 to 50 percent. The
PAD makes clear assumptions about the value added of increasing quality on wages.

5.5     The ex ante analysis does not include any project contribution to increased enrollment
as the result of scholarships targeted at poor students. Likewise, the analysis takes into the
entire project cost, even though part of the project focuses on system-wide reform and
capacity building or the support to the Open University. Likewise, it assumed it that many
students would benefit from the project, despite the fact that the research grants were focused
on certain academic departments.

5.6     The ICR calculates the ex post rate of return, based on project data. As with the PAD,
this also focuses on the project’s contribution to existing students by improving quality,
factoring in the effect on increased wages, reduced unemployment, and faster graduation
time. The ICR adjusts many of assumptions made in the PAD, including a reduction of the
number of beneficiaries to reflect students in Departments that directly benefited from
research grants. The ICR makes clear assumptions of the value added of the beneficiary
students; it assumes that students of departments which received a grant will earn the
equivalent to the wage differential between a student finishing secondary school and a
student finishing tertiary education, equivalent to about US$290 per year, which exceeds the
amount estimated in the PAD (US$200). No explanation or evidence base is given for this
assumed benefits stream. The ICR uses data showing a decline in education premium. More
recent estimates seem to show the wage premium for higher education increasing, which may
lead to a modest increase in the grant’s net present value (Purnastuti, Miller, and Salim,
2013). The estimates also updated the number of grants actually given (38 grants were
actually awarded, compared to the planned 26 grants). Likewise, the costs were only based
on expenditures for B1 grants (about 47 percent of total project expenditures), which reflects
the fact that other elements of the project would not directly impact on education quality
received by the students. The ICR estimates a discounted benefit from quality to be around
US$131 million; if the returns are closer to the estimates in the PAD, this would reduce the
discounted to around US$75 million to US$95 million.

5.7     Unlike in the PAD, the ICR also includes the additional income due to the reduced
time needed to graduate and the reduced time needed to find a new job that resulted from the
project’s interventions. Because the discount rate of 10 percent (same as in the PAD), this
makes an important contribution as they are “front-loaded” benefits.
                                              16


5.8     On the other hand, the estimates do not appear to consider the impact of the equity
scholarships that were granted to 3,200 students. However internal project estiamtes suggest
that only around 40 percent from the lowest income quintile (World Bank, 2013).. These
scholarships were only available for new students and not for students already in the
university. Assuming that 1,600 (50%) students were able to attend university because of the
scholarships and using similar assumptions in the ICR, the net present value of these
scholarships are around US$19 million.

5.9      The net present value of the benefits to students varies depending of the assumptions.
Using a lower value of the benefits to improved quality and excluding other benefits, gives a
net present value of US$47 million to US$67 million, leading to a rate of return of at least 16
percent. Including the assumption about the benefits from increased equity and efficient
increase the net present value to US$107 million to US$127 million, with a rate of return of
at least 24 percent. Including all of these benefits using the ICR’s estimation of the benefit
from increased quality, this leads to US$164 million with a rate of return of 33 percent.

5.10 Finally, neither the PAD nor the ICR attempted to calculate the private or social
benefits for investment in research. Studies have shown that the rate of return to research can
be quite high, although estimates vary greatly (Hall, Mariesse, and Mohnen, 2009). The
project did support research in strategic fields (such as agriculture, technology, and natural
sciences) and that subsequently were published, suggesting at least some of the research had
a positive impact.

Internal Efficiency

5.11 Initially, the project suffered from slow disbursement as it took more time than
expected for the universities to learn about how to implement the grant program. The
disbursement schedule was updated during the mid-term review (2009) and the project
generally disbursed in a timely fashion after the mid-term review. The IDA grant was fully
disbursed, while part of the IBRD loan (14%) was cancelled. This was done because the
demand for grants was less than expected. This is a prudent practice for uncommitted
resources. The project closed with an 18 months delay due to problems in establishing the
project with a context of a changing legal framework.

6. Ratings
Outcome
6.1     The overall project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. Based upon the
evidence and analysis in Section 2, the relevance of project objectives was high, while the
relevance of project design was substantial. Based upon the analysis of outputs and
outcomes in Section 4, the achievement of the first objective was substantial and the second
one was modest. Based upon the analysis in Section 5 of the project’s estimated benefits and
costs, the project’s efficiency, in both external and internal measures, was substantial.
                                              17


Risk to Development Outcome
6.2     At the time of project closing in December 2012, the second HE Law had just been
passed. It was not clear how strongly the government might support the reforms. The
implementing regulations were slow in being drafted and there was a tendency toward
recentralization. However, at the time of the mission almost two years later there is evidence
that government support for implementing the autonomy provisions of the law would be
forthcoming. The implementing regulations have been completed and more universities
(now a total of 11) have been granted autonomous stature.

6.3     The new government elected in July 2014 and inaugurated in October 2014 gave
indications that it would support the HELTS over the next five years. Although the DGHE
was merged into a new Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education by the new
government, there are no indications that HE will suffer from reduced attention. The
proponents of this merger argue it will make for better coordination research and HE.
Nonetheless, the reform agenda requires considerable financial resources and it is uncertain
what resources can be forthcoming. The Bank will continue to provide analytic support and
work with other partners. Given the remaining uncertainties in the political process, the risk
to development outcomes is significant.

Bank Performance
6.4     Overall Bank performance was moderately satisfactory. During preparation and
at entry, Bank performance was moderately unsatisfactory, and during supervision it was
moderately satisfactory.

6.5     Quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The were a number of
shortcomings in the preparation of the project. The main shortcoming was the lack of risk
mitigation measures for the possibility that the HE Law might not be passed or that might be
modified. The Constitutional Court did overturn the law in 2010 and the Ministry of Finance
also blocked several aspects of the reform. Both of these risks were discussed in the aide-
memoires during preparation but were not incorporated into the project design.

6.6     The Bank team also paid attention to fiduciary aspects by putting together a set of
anti-corruption measures that led to an open and transparent procurement and contracting.
Due to the decentralized nature of the grants and procurement to the HEIs, the project had
strong financial management safeguards in place. The PAD placed emphasis on financial
and procurement management in a number of annexes, making sure that publicity of HEI
financial affairs and procurement contracts were subject to proper controls and publicized in
the local media. At the same time, the project underestimated the need for capacity building
at both the national and institution level to implement a complicated grant-based project.

6.7    Generally Bank provided strong technical support in the preparation of the project,
including extensive analytic work, constructing a detailed project design that was aligned
with the project objectives in most areas. However, one basic assumption that autonomy
would lead to better outcomes, had not been tested in Indonesia, although there was some
evidence about this in other countries.
                                              18


6.8    Quality of supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. The project was
supervised from the Country Office in Jakarta, and there were two co-TTLs during
preparation, and the co-TTL based in the country office continued as TTL during the first
years of implementation. This provided continuity and close cooperation with the project
counterparts, and contributed to solving implementation problems as they arose. The second
TTL also was based in the country office and assumed responsibility in 2008.

6.9     As procurement problems arose during the first years of implementation, the Bank
team responded to resolve themThe mission found in its site visits that there was almost a
universal complaint among the grant recipients about the complexity of Bank procurement
rules and procedures. Grant team members reported to the mission that delays in Bank
response sometimes meant that quotes from bidders were no longer valid and caused further
delays in grant implementation. The Bank recognized the problem, which was partly due to
insufficient procurement staff on site, and also due to the inexperience the HEI grant
recipients in procurement. The Bank added more procurement staff in the country office and
provided more training to DGHE and to the HEIs. This also became a major theme in theme
in the mid-term review in 2008, which included capacity building at both the central and
university level as well as changes in procurement procedures. DGHE reported to the mission
that this made positive difference in helping them to implement the project.

Borrower Performance
6.10 Overall the performance of the borrower is rated as moderately satisfactory.
The performance of the government is rated moderately unsatisfactory while that of the
implementing agency (DGHE-IU) is rated as moderately satisfactory.

6.11 The government gave strong support to the project during preparation and supported
the overall HE reform strategy. The MOF and the National Planning Agency played key
roles in support of the DGHE in preparing the project. However, after three years into
project implementation (2009), MOF issued a decree that stated block grant financing could
no longer be used in the project because this violated the Finance Law of 2003. It was
explained to the mission that universities were not autonomous (in the view of MOF) but
were part of the government according to Indonesian budget law, and one part of the
government could not subsidize another part. The decision to apply the letter of the law was
taken as part of a recentralization trend according to some observers. Whatever the reason,
and despite the fact that the government had agreed to the block grant arrangement, the result
was a bottle neck in project implementation that was in the end resolved. Thus the
performance of the government is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

6.12 The DGHE as overall implementing agency played a key role, although it also
received support from the implementation unit established within the DGHE and the Higher
Education Board (HEB), which is an important advisory body set up by special decree of the
MOEC and made up of experienced senior academics. It was reported to the mission that the
HEB functioned in some ways as a think tank to provide ideas. The Higher Education
Institutions-Implementation Units (HEI-IUs) also were critical during implementation. In its
role as coordinator of the overall project the DGHE-IU conducted coordinating meetings
twice each year, provided TA to the HEIs as needed, and at times carried out special
                                               19


seminars to develop the implementation capacity within the HEIs. However, procurement
capacity in the DGHE was limited in the early years and incomplete procurement requests
from the HEIs were passed on to the Bank procurement unit without adequate supervision,
leading to procurement requests being sent back to the HEIs for better specifications of
equipment and other issues. This, together with the slow response of the Bank procurement
process, resulted in the delays during the first half of the project before being resolve at
MTR. Thus the performance of the implementing agency is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation
6.13    Monitoring and Evaluation Design. The design of Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) attempted to capture each of the PDO elements—autonomy, accountability, quality,
relevance, efficiency and equity. The key outcome indicators listed in the Results
Framework of the PAD are:

      The draft law on HE autonomy is to be passed by2010.
      Tracer studies HE graduates to be conducted on regular basis by 2010.
      Institutional accreditation to be awarded to five percent of all HEIs (public and
       private) by 2010.
      Unqualified opinions by external auditors to be awarded to five public HEIs and 90
       percent of procurement awarded within bid validity period by 2010.
      A comprehensive evaluation comparing line item finance, competitive grants, and
       performance based contracts to be completed by 2010.
      Unqualified audit opinions for autonomous HEIs

The set of intermediate indicators included:

       GPAs for students in the academic program grant (Component 2.1)
      Reduction of time to graduate
      Reduction of time to find a job after graduation
      Percentage of poor students in academic grant recipient HEIs to increase.
      Official Rector decree establishing internal audit function before signing of Grant
       agreements (for non-autonomous public HEIs)
      Successful completion of PBC grants by those autonomous HEIs.

6.14 The Directorate of Higher Education-Implementation Unit and the HEIs, each of
which formed their own implementation units (HEI-IUs), were mainly responsible for
collecting the data for indicators, though some special studies were also envisioned,
especially the tracer study of graduates. However, the design did not call for control groups
of institutions or students nor did it use trend data (versus a single data point as baseline)
prior to the project baseline to see how trends were evolving before and after the project.

6.15 While these indicators are important, they do not capture the project’s underlying
logical framework. Most of the PDO level indicators focus on intermediate outputs. This was
an attempt to measure institutional change. There were no measure of the project’s impact on
teaching and research at the PDO level. However the intermediate level indicators did
                                              20


include some measure of the project’s impact on teaching and employability, such as changes
in the grade point averages and time to find a job. The results framework did not seem to
have any indicator related to the production and input of research.

6.16 Monitoring and Evaluation Implementation. M&E activities were carried out on a
regular basis with assistance by Bank missions, which helped in data aggregation and
validation. There was some confusion on the part of DGHE and HEIs about the indicator for
the equity component of objective 2 concerning the percentage of poor students. The
intention was to aim at twenty percent of entering students should come from low-income
backgrounds, but DGHE and the HEIs simply reported the percentage receiving scholarships
irrespective of their income status. This was clarified and refined at MTR.

6.17 Early on in the project implementation, Bank management requested the Bank team
to clarify PDO outcome and intermediate indicators as listed above. Some of the
intermediate indicators seemed to be more appropriate as outcome indicators, for example
the GPA. Also, indicators for relevance and efficiency could be improved. Thus, at MTR,
new indicators were added. For the competitive academic grants (subcomponent 2.1) two
new indicators were introduced at MTR--time to graduate and time to get first job, and other
indicators, GPA increase and share of poor students, were given more precise specifications
than what was given in the PAD. Some modifications of intermediate indicators were
required to match available data, but this did not appear to have a major impact on the
reported achievements.

6.18 Monitoring and Evaluation Utilization. Although the national tracer study for the
NISHE was not completed, at the level of the individual institutions the collection of job
experience data was used. It was reported to the mission that the DGHE now has the
responsibility of collecting and organizing the tracer data and then delivering to the NISHE.
The HEIs visited by the mission knew about the labor market experience of graduates and
used the information in career guidance activities. Data on the agreed upon indicators were
collected throughout implementation and used by supervision missions to gauge project
progress and the need to do some adjustment (Level 2 restructuring) at MTR. The
difficulties experienced with defining and collecting data on scholarships for low income led
to refinements in that indicator and adoption of equity indicators by HEIs, which now makes
visits to the homes to gauge the family situation.

6.19 The fact that comparison groups were not available presented difficulty in attribution
of project interventions. It is interesting to note that the indicators for competitive grants
(subcomponent 2.1) were used before in the DUE and QUE projects, and involved a
comparison group (see the ICRs for these two projects). Using trend data a few years
before the project start-up, which the PAD and also the HEIs visited indicated was available
from the previous projects, would have been preferable to a single point in time for the base
line data. Then it would be possible at least to compare the rate of increase in indicators such
as GPA prior to the project compared to that after the project interventions. Thus, taking
into account shortcomings cited above, overall the M&E is rated as modest.
                                              21


7. Lessons
 Epilogue: Developments since Project Closing.

7.1     The HE sector is at an important crossroads. Starting with standard investment
projects about 1980, the HE agenda moved onto the reform era of the New Paradigm in the
mid-1990s. This led up to far reaching reform proposals as embodied in this IMHERE
Project. It appeared that the momentum for reforms began to stall with MOF decisions in
2009 and the Constitutional Court reversing the HE Law in 2010. With passage of the new
HE Law in 2012, some observers see the reforms regaining momentum, while others are still
skeptical (Suriyadama and Jones, 2012; World Bank (2014).

7.2     Since completion of the project in December 2012, there have been major
developments that overall give rise to a guarded optimism for the HE sector, but major
challenges remain. The major developments are: the passage of the HE Law (2012): the
formulation and issuance of more than 41 implementing regulations required by the HE Law;
the elevation of 11 public universities to autonomous status; the improved institutional
capacity of these universities, partly as a result of continuing and expanding the institutional
developments started by sub-projects in Component 2 of this project; the progress made in
the realm of accreditation; the development of a vibrant private HE sector, although quality is
uneven. To date, there have been a few challenges to the HE Law by students and some
private universities, but the Constitutional Court has upheld the law.

7.3     As has been pointed out, the HE Law covered more than just institutional autonomy
(Smith 2012). Its scope was broader and allowed for other positive and needed
developments. It considered the issues of quality assurance, access and equity. With respect
to equity, and also labor market relevance, the law also establishes Community Colleges,
which are intended to serve local and far outer island communities. The law also established
the target that 20 percent of HEI students should be from poor backgrounds (the operational
definition of this remains to be formulated) and remote disadvantaged places. It also opened
up the possibility for establishment of foreign HEIs universities under certain conditions.
They must obtain a license from the GOI, be accredited in their home country, cooperate
with Indonesian HEI, give priority to Indonesian staff, and support the national interest. A
number of foreign universities have expressed interest, as has been done in Malaysia and
Singapore. It remains to be seen how the GOI regulates foreign institutions.

7.4     Yet some major challenges must be addressed. The most serious is the mismatch
between supply and demand of skills needed for dynamic growth. This has only been partly
addressed in the past few years, even with the support of this and other projects. The
response of the public universities involved in this project is not large enough or fast enough
to match the growth in demand as a result of the new investments anticipated in the next few
years. Moreover, the public universities are only one part of a large and complex HE system.
To get the balance right in the system as a whole requires a thorough analysis of the
economy, labor market and skills development system. Added to this is the challenge of
starting up the newly created Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education that
can provide the HE system with the resources and direction needed.
                                              22


7.5     As noted in Bank’s 2014 HE-labor market study, finding signs of mismatch in the
market is easier than solving them. A similar point was raised by economist Howard Pack in
reviewing the experience of Singapore and South Korea—no country has solved the
coordination problem between education and the economy (Pack 2007). Singapore
industrialized using foreign manpower and later replaced the foreign manpower with local
manpower as the labor market and economy signaled what skills and training were needed.
South Korea, on the other hand, provided higher education before its industries were
established and then suffered graduate unemployment along with the exodus of its highly
educated labor. However, it was able to encourage many of them to return to South Korea as
industrialization plans took hold.

Lessons

7.6     If legislation is essential to the achievement of reform objectives, it also essential
to have a risk assessment plan that outlines what measures could be taken if the
legislation is not passed. In this project, legislation was essential to project success, which
was made clear in early project preparation documents and then mentioned in risk assessment
table of the PAD. Many people with whom the mission met thought that the project should
not be held responsible for passing legislation since what happens in the legislature is beyond
control of the project. While all stakeholders agreed that placing conditionality on the
approval legislation was neither desirable nor feasible, the project design could have
including more contingency planning.

7.7     In situations where procurement is decentralized, it is never too early to start
procurement planning and training to build up decentralized capacity. Procurement
became a serious challenge early in the project. The HEIs were not ready to assume
responsibility for procurement, especially given complicated Bank guidelines. Despite the
fact that low procurement capacity was highlighted in the PAD, the project planned little in
the way of capacity building. Delays in procurement can be serious enough to risk
achievement of grant objectives and therefore the project objectives. The lack of capacity
was one of the leading reasons that the tracer survey could not be carried out during project
implementation, which weaked the M&E system. If preparation grants are available, pilot
grants and procurements can be undertaken to test out the grant procedures and to harmonize
Bank procurement and national procurement guidelines where possible.

M&E planning should also begin early in project preparation, even during the analytic
phases of sector work to establish what trend data is available as potentially useful as
indicators. The indicators chosen for measuring achievement of PDOs, as is often the case,
presented difficulty in attributing outcomes to project interventions, although arguments in
terms of plausibility can still be made. No control groups were used or attempted. In such
situations, which are common for complex projects, it is useful to assemble baseline trend
data prior to the project interventions, as opposed to a single data point at the start of the
project, such as GPA or time to first job. Also, it is important to assess the capacity of the
country to measure important variables.Then resources needed to bolster this capacity could
be included in the project. In addition, procurement can play a major role in developing an
M&E system. The lack of procurement capacity delayed the implementation of the tracer
survey, which is a critical element in higher education.
                                                    23


References
Berk, David. 2002. “Tertiary Education: Lessons from a Decade of Lending 1990-2000.” IEG Working
        Paper Series, World Bank, Washington, DC.
di Gropello, Emanuela with A. Kruse, and P. Tandon. 2011. Skills for the Labor Market in Indonesia:Trends
        in Demand, Gaps, and Supply . Directions in Development Series,World Bank, Washington, DC.
Employers Association of Indonesia (APINDO). 2013. How Could Indonesia Improve Its Productivity and
       Competitveness. Annual Report.
Hall, Mariesse, and Mohnen, 2009.
IEG. 2011. World Bank Support to Education Since 2001. Portfolio Note. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Pack, Howard, and Marcus Noland. 2007. The Arab Economies in a Changing World. Peterson Institute for
        International Economics. Washington, DC.
Purnastuti, Miller, and Salim, 2013.
Smith, Christopher J. 2012. “The Higher Education Law: a Milestone Achieved but Still a Difficult Road
        Ahead.” Indonesia Economic Quarterly. World Bank Office Jakarta. October 2012.
Suryadarma, Daniel, and Gavin Jones (editors). 2013. Education in Indonesia. Published by Institute for
        Southeast Asian Studies for Australian National University.
Tong, D., and B. Waltermann. 2013. “Tackling Indonesia’s Talent Challenges: Growing Pains, Lasting
        Advantage.” Boston Consulting Group. Jakarta Office.
USAID. 2013. The Impact of US Foreign Direct Investment on the Indonesian Economy. Report by Ernst &
       Young Indonesia commissioned by USAID.
World Bank. 1994. Higher Education: the Lessons of Experience. Development in Practice Series.
       Washington, D.C.
______. 2001. “Implementation Completion and Results Report: Indonesia University Research for
        Graduate Education Project.” Washington, D.C.
______. 2003. “Implementation Completion and Results Report: Indonesia Development of Undergraduate
        Education Project.” Washington, D.C.
______. 2004. “Implementation Completion and Results Report: Indonesia Quality of Undergraduate
        Education Project.” Washington, D.C.
______. 2005. “Indonesia-Managing Higher Education for Relevance and Efficiency.” Project Appraisal
        Document. Washington, D.C.
______. 2012. Putting Higher Education to Work: Skills and Research for Growth in East Asia. World Bank
        Regional Report. Washington, D.C.
______. 2013a. Spendinng More or Spending Better: Improving Education Financing in Indonesia. Jakarta.
______. 2013b. “Implementation Completion and Results Report: Indonesia Managing Higher Education for
        Relevance and Efficiency Project.” Washington, D.C.
______. 2014a. “Indonesia’s Higher Education System: How Responsive is it to the Labor Market?” Jakarta.
______. 2014b. “Equity, Access and Success in Higher Education.” Jakarta.
______. 2014c. “Tertiary Education in Indonesia: Directions for Policy.” Jakarta.
______. 2014d. Indonesia: Avoiding the Trap. Development Policy Review 2014. Jakarta.
______. 2014e. “Akademi Komunitas: Current Developments and Future Challenges.” Policy Brief.
        Jakarta.
                                                25                                       ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
INDONESIA MANAGING HIGHER EDUCATION FOR RELEVANCE AND
EFFICIENCY PROJECT (IBRD-47890 - IDA-40770)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                          Appraisal            Actual or          Actual as % of
                                          estimate          current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                        114.5                  92.5                  80.7
Loan amount (IBDR)                              50.0               39.7                79.4
Loan amount (IDA)                               30.0               30.3                101.0
Cancellation                                    0.0                6.9                  0.0


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                               FY06 FY07 FY08               FY09    FY10       FY11 FY12       FY13
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        6.7     22.7        44.7   64.7     76.0      80.0   80.0     80.0
Actual (US$M)                    3.6     11.2        16.0   26.6     39.3      57.8   73.1     70.0
Actual as % of appraisal        53.7     49.3        35.7   41.1     51.7      72.2   91.3     87.5
Date of final disbursement: 05/23/2013


Project Dates
                                                   Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                             02/27/2004                     03/11/2004
Negotiations                                      05/13/2005                     05/13/2005
Board approval                                    11/30/2004                     06/09/2005
Signing                                           08/02/2005                     08/02/2005
Effectiveness                                     12/20/2005                     12/20/2005
Closing date                                      06/30/2011                     12/31/2012
ANNEX A                                        26


Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                 US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
Lending                                                         travel and consultants costs)
            FY04                             10.94                          69.51
            FY05                             67.26                          333.49
                         Total:              78.2                            403
Supervision/ICR
            FY06                             20.06                          132.31
            FY07                            16.93                           79.14
            FY08                             18.98                          76.24
            FY09                             18.66                          67.75
            FY10                             18.43                          80.54
            FY11                             19.42                          57.50
            FY12                             20.72                          78.68
            FY13                             14.04                          93.16
                         Total:             147.24                          665.32


Task Team Members
                                                                             Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                 Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending

Ratna Kesuma                 Senior Operations Officer           EASHE
Novira Kusdarti Asra         Sr. Fin. Management Specialist      EAPFM
Susiana Iskandar             Senior Education Specialist         EASHE
Rizal H. Rivai               Senior Procurement Specialist       EAPPR
Christopher James Smith      Consultant                          EASPR
Richard Hopper               Education Specialist                EASHD
Yogana Prasta                Sr. Disbursement Officer             EASIF
Rajiv Sondhi                 Sr. Fin. Manage. Specialist         EAPCO
Titie Hadiyati               Consultant (Costing)                EAPCO
Kristian Thorn               ET Consultant (Education)           LCSHE
Steven Burgess               Sr. Soc. Devel. Specialist          EASSD
Joseph Burke                 Consultant (Performance Funding)    External
Juan Manuel Moreno           Sr. Education Specialist            HDNED
Robin DePietro-Jurand        Consultant (Higher Education)       External
Maria Jose LeMaitre          Consultant (Quality Assurance)      External
                                             27                            ANNEX A


                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                             Title          Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Menno Prassard Pradhan    Economist                       EACIF
Anne-Lise Klausen         ET Consultant (Civil Service)   EACIF
Rosita Van Meel           Sr. Education Specialist        SASHD
Shahid Yusuf              Economic Advisor                DECRG
Omporn Regel              Sr. Operations Specialist       EASHD
Elizabeth King Lead       Economist                       EASHD
Marlaine Lockheed         Consultant (M&E)                External
Xiomara A. Morel          Senior Finance Officer          LOAGI
Christina Sukmawati       Program Assistant               EACIF
Supervision/ICR
Ratna Kesuma              Senior Operations Officer       EASHE Task Team
Mae Chu Chang             Lead Education Specialist       EASHE
Novira Asra               Sr. Fin. Manage. Specialist     EAPFM
Susiana Iskandar          Senior Education Specialist     EASHE
Siwage D. Negara          Operations Officer              EASHE
Rizal H. Rivai            Senior Procurement Specialist   EAPPR
Christopher James Smith   Consultant                      EASPR
I Gusti Ngurah Wijaya     Consultant                      EAPFM
Kusuma
Paulus Bagus Tjahjanto    Procurement Specialist          EAPPR
Anita Buragohain          Temporary                       EASHE
William Hardi             Consultant                      External
Rimta K. Silangit         Liaison Officer
Susie Sugiarti            Operations Officer              EASHE
Dhonke Ridhong Kafi       Consultant                      EASFP
Santoso Santoso           E T Consultant                  EASHE
Muhammad Farman Izhar     Operations Officer/Financial    EASHE
                          Management
Benedicta R. Sembodo      Program Assistant               EACIF
Yvonne Trethewey          Consultant – Training           EASHE
Halsey L. Beemer, Jr.     Lead ICR Consultant             EASHE ICR Author
Chelsea Coffin            Consultant – Eco/Fin Analysis   EASHE ICR Author
ANNEX B                                          28


Annex B. Timeline of Events-Indonesia
Year             National Event                       Education Event                      World Bank
       Indonesian Independence from
       Netherlands after World War 2.
1945   Sukarno, independence leader,
       becomes first president.
1965                                          Law allowing private universities.
       Suharto takes over from President
       Sukarno after political and military
1966   crisis of 1965. Era of New Order
       with economic development
       follows.
                                                                                     First University
                                                                                     Development project
1980                                                                                 (first Bank supported HE
                                                                                     project)
                                              Provision of limited public support
1982                                          to private universities
                                                                                     Second University
1985                                                                                 Development Project.
                                              Beginning of New Paradigm era          Bank publishes Higher
                                              for Indonesian HE policy               Education Policy Paper.
                                              development.
                                              National Accreditation Board
1994
                                              (BAN-PT)
                                                                                     University Research for
                                                                                     Graduate Education
                                                                                     project. Introduces
                                                                                     competitive grants.
                                              Board of Higher Education
1996                                          established by ministerial decree to
                                              provide advice to MOEC.
                                                                                     Development of
                                                                                     Undergraduate Education
1997                                                                                 project. Satisfactory
                                                                                     completion in 2002.
                                                                                     Quality of Undergraduate
1998                                                                                 Education. Satisfactory
                                                                                     completion in 2004.
       Asian Financial Crisis hits
1998   Indonesia hard as well as other
       countries in region.
       President Suharto forced to resign
1998   in the aftermath of financial crisis
       and demonstrations.
                                                   29                                         ANNEX B


Year              National Event                        Education Event                    World Bank
        Decentralization to regions.           Decree giving autonomy status to       .
1999    Election of President Abdurrahman      six large and well-established
        Wahid by Parliament.                   universities.
                                               Technology and Professional
2000-                                          Skills project funded by ADB.
2006                                           Sector loan also promoted
                                               competitive grants.
        President Wahid resigns. Megawati
        Sukarnoputri (daughter of former
2001    President Sukarno) elected by
        Parliament.
                                               Program Hibah Kompetisi funded
2002                                           by GOI to promote competitive
                                               grants in HEIs.
                                               Higher Education Long Term
2003                                           Strategy lays out principles of
                                               New Paradigm.
                                               Preparation of IMHERE project
2004    Election of President Susilo
        Bambang Yudhoyono in first direct
        popular vote. Re-elected in 2009.
                                                                                      Approval of IMHERE
2005                                                                                  project.
        MOF rules that block grants no         Some observers see a
        longer allowed in public HE.           “recentralization” of HE
2009                                           management by government.
        HE Law passed, but over-ruled by
        Constitutional Court one year later.
        New version of HE law passed by
        Parliament and signed by President.
2012    Sound legal foundation for HEI
        autonomy.
                                                                                      Completion of IMHERE
        Elections result in President Joko
        Widodo coming to power.
                                               DGHE completes implementing
                                               regulations required by HE Law 0f
                                               2012. 11 universities given
2014                                           autonomy.
                                               DGHE and HEIs are merged with
                                               Ministry of Research and
                                               Technology. Aim is to improve
                                               applications of university research.
ANNEX C                                        30


Annex C. List of Persons Met
       Name                                  Title                          Organization
Government and Universities
Dadang Sudiyarto           Director, IMHERE Project                 Directorate General of Higher
                                                                    Education-Implementation
                                                                    Unit, IMHERE Project
Akhmat Mahmudin            Person Responsible for Activity          “
Bagyo Y.                   Expert Staff                             “
Moeliodihardjo
Biemo W. Soemardi          Expert Staff                             “
T. Basarudin               Expert Staff                             “
Abdul Malik                Expert Staff                             “
Deny Kurniawan             Head, Division Data Processing           DGHE
Didit W. Nugroho           Secretary                                Higher Education Board
Mr. Nizam                  Counsel member, former secretary         Higher Education Board
Sofian Effendi             Counsel member                           “
Usman Chatib Warsa         “                                        “
Johannes Gunawan           “                                        “
Dr. Dwiwahaju              Secretary                                National Accreditation
Sasongko                                                            Agency for Higher Education
                                                                    (BAN-PT)
Mr. Tormarbulang           Head, Sub-Directorate of Loans &         Ministry of Finance
Lumban Tobing              Grants
Dr. Subandi Sardjoko       Director for Education                   National Development
                                                                    Planning Agency
                                                                    (BAPPENAS)
Prof. Dr. Suratman         Vice Rector for Research and             Universitas Gadja Mada
                           Community Service
Prof. Ir.Dwikorita         Vice Rector for Cooperation and Alumni   “
Karnawati
Prof.Ir.Cahyono Agus       FacultyForest Soil Science,ex-Dir.       “
                           IMHERE PBC Grant
Prof.Dr. Lilik Soetiarso   Dean, Faculty Agricultural Technology,   “
                           ex-Dir.IMHERE Grant Institution
                           Capacity
Dr.                        Head of Business Development and         “
S.KompiangWirawan          Incubation
M.Afrizal Hernandar        President Director, GMUM Holding         “
                           Company
                                             31                                   ANNEX C


Dr.Eny Faridah           Person-in-Charge,Center of Excellence,    “
                         Forestry
Dr. Hilda Ismail         Person-in-Charge, Center of Excellence,   “
                         Pharmacy
Dr.Niken                 Person-in-Charge, Center of Excellence,   “
                         Vice Dean, Biology
Dr. Ria Armunanto        Ex-Person-in-Charge, INHERENT             “
Prof. Agung S.           Vice Dean, Faculty of Pharmacy            “
Diana                    Officer, Directorate of Planning          “
Dr. Gatot F. Hertono     Director of Academic Development and      Universitas Indonesia
                         GDLN
Sitaresmi Ismangil       Head, Subdirectorate for Coordination     “
                         Academic Program Development,
                         IMHERE Grant Institutional
                         Development
Dr. Gandjar Kiswanto     Associate Professor, Faculty of           “
                         Engineering, IMHERE Grant
                         Mechanical Engineering
Dr. Ade Azurat           Lecturer, Faculty of Computer Science,    “
                         IMHERE Grant Computer Science
Prof. Dr. Ibnu Hajar     Rector                                    Universitas Negeri Medan
Prof. Dr. Khairul Ansari Vice Rector I                             “
Dr. Chairul Azni         Vice Rector II                            “
Prof.Dr. Biher           Vice Rector III                           “
Prof. Dr. Berlin Sibalani Vice Rector IV                           “
Dr. Kustoro Budiarto     Dean, Faculty of Economics                “
Prof. Dr. Abd. Hamid K. Dean Faculty of Technology                 “
Dr. Basyaruddin Daulky Dean, Faculty of Sport Science              “
Dr. Lu Ann               Person in Charge (PIC) Accounting         “
                         Major
Chandra Situmeang        “                                         “
OK Sofyan Hidayat        “                                         “
Muhammad Ridha           “                                         “
Habibi
Dr. Selamet Riadi        PIC Mechanical Engineering Major          “
Zulian Heru              PIC Sport Education                       “
Indra Darma Sitepu       “                                         “
Dr. M. Nustan Hasibuan   “                                         “
Yon Rinaldi              PIC Capacity Building                     “
ANNEX C                                    32


Ismed Iskandar         “                                        “
Edo Barlian            “                                        “
Prof.Dr. Rochmat       Rector                                   Universitas Negeri
Wahab                                                           Yogyakarta
Dr. Wardan Suyanto     Vice Chancelor I                         “
Prof.Dr.Zamzani        Dean, Faculty of Language and Art        “
Dr. Hartono            Dean, Faculty of Math and Natural        “
                       Science
Dr. Rumpis Agus        Head of BUPK                             “
Sudarko
Dr. Setyo Budi Takarina Head of BAKI                            “
Dr. Djamilah Bondan    Deputy Director IMHERE                   “
Yosa A. Alzuhdy        Secretary IMHERE                         “
Erwin Setyo            PIC Math PJKR                            “
Endang Listyani        PIC Math Education                       “
Dr.Pangesti Wiedarti   PIC PBSI                                 “
Marsudi Waliyono       Treasurer, IMHERE                        “
Sigit Cahyono          Staff, IMHERE                            “
Nikke Yudha Dianita    Staff, IMHERE                            “
Renny
Dr. Margana            Vice Chancelor, Expert Staff             “
Nunik Sugesti          Vice Chancelor, Expert Staff             “
Armansyah Ginting      Vice Chancelor II                        Universitas Sumatera Utara
Erman Munir            Secretary IMHERE                         “
Nasrul H.              Bureau Chief. Planning and Cooperation   “
Jasmin Kaban           Internal Audit                           “
Rhuslly Siregar        Internal Audit                           “
Sukardi                Head of ULP/Procurement                  “
Rapido Gultom          Maintenance Asset Staff                  “
Zulkahiri Nasution     Finance Staff                            “
Sinta Dahlan           Head of Finance                          “
Nainggolan
Ahmad Hatib            Bureau Chief, Maintenance and            “
                       Development Asset
Edwin Sitorus          Vice Chancelor II Expert Staff           “
Baihaqi Siregar        Head LPSE                                “
Amar Rinanda Lubis     Secretariat Staff IMHERE                 “
                                               33                              ANNEX C


Suci M. Isman            Assistant to Rector                   Universitas Terbuka (Open
                                                               University)
International Agencies and Private Sector
Andrew White             Managing Director                     American Chamber of
                                                               Commerce
Sarah Howe               Executive Director                    “
Jerry Strudwick          Lead Education Specialist             Australian Department of
                                                               Foreign Affairs and Trade
Sofjan Wanandi           Chairman                              Employers Association of
                                                               Indonesia
P. Agung Pambudhi        Executive Director                    “
Makiko Senju             Representative                        Japanese International
                                                               Cooperation Agency
Fitri Diningsih Arifin   Program Officer for ODA Loan          “
Susiana Iskandar         Initial Co-Task Team Leader, IMHERE   World Bank
Ratna Kesuma             Final Task Team Leader,               World Bank
                         ManagerIMHERE Project
Christopher Smith        Consultant, IMHERE Project            World Bank
Andrew White             Managing Director                     American Chamber of
                                                               Commerce
ANNEX D               34


Annex D. Borrower Comments
