Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22298
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34880; SCL-3488A; SCPD-3488S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$33.0 MILLION
TO DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ALGERIA
FOR A CADASTRE PROJECT
June 6, 2001
Financial Sector, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2001)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar
DAI.00 = US$ 0.012
US$ 1.00 = 79.6DA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANC        Agence Nationale du Cadastre (National Cadastre Agency)
APC    :  Assemblee Populaire Communale (Municipality)
BA         Banque d'Alg6rie (Central Bank)
CF         Conservation Fonciere (Land Registry Office)
CNTS       Centre National des Techniques Spatiales (National Center for Land and Space Technology)
DAS        Domaine Agricole Socialiste (State Farm)
DGDN  :  Direction Generale du Domain National (General Directorate of Lands)
EAC    :  Exploitation Agricole Collective (Privatized Collective Farm)
EAI    :  Exploitation Agricole Individulle (Privatized Individual Farm)
EPA        Etablissement Public Administratif (Autonomous Public Agency)
GoA    :  Gouvernement d'Alg6rie (Government of Algeria)
INC        Institut National de Cartographie (National Mapping Institute)
LIS        Land Information System
MoA    :  Ministere de I'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MoE        Ministere de l'Economie (Ministry of the Economy)
MoF    :  Ministere des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MoH        Ministere de l'Habitat (Ministry of Housing)
MoJ    :  Ministere de la Justice (Ministry of Justice)
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:   Sonia Hammam/Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Douglas I. Graham/Mayumi Kato



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALGERIA
ALG-CADASTRE
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                             21
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004964                                        Project Name: ALG-CADASTRE
Team Leader: Douglas I. Graham                             TL Unit: MNSID
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 12, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ALG-CADASTRE                                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-34880;
SCL-3488A;
SCPD-3488S
Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: UY - Other Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/19/1990                               Effective: 02/24/1993
Appraisal:  10/11/1991                                 MTR:  10/04/1996
Approval:  06/11/1992                               Closing:  12/31/1997          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT. OF ALGERIA/NAT'L CADASTRE AGENCY
Other Partners: GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF L ANDS
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:      Christian Delvoie                          Pieter P. Bottelier
Sector Manager:       Sonia Hammam                               Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:   Douglas I. Graham                          Vincent Lacour
ICR Primary Author:   Mayumi Kato
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1.    Original Objective. The objectives of the Project was to assist the Borrower in establishing a land
registration system (cadastre), which system includes a general cadastre and a land registry, throughout its
territory, by supporting the first four year period of the General Cadastre Establishment Program (GCEP). In
particular, the Project would assist the Borrower in;  (i) developing the appropriate legal and institutional
framework for the land registry; (ii) gradually increasing activities related to the land registry during the first four
year period of the GCEP; and (iii) organizing computerized and other information systems, based on the Cadastre,
for taxation and other land related uses. The Project, through accelerating the development of the cadastre system
in Algeria, was envisaged to contribute to the development of the agriculture and housing sectors through
stimulating the development of both agricultural and urban land markets.
3.1.2.  Background. In the early 1990s, as part of the ongoing economic reform, the Govemment identified
Housing and Agriculture as the two most crucial sectors for accelerating economic growth. Improving agricultural
productivity was a priority for the Algerian economy mainly due to the following three factors: (a) rapid population
growth; (b) heavy dependence on food imports; and, (c) modest share of usable land in the national territory. The
main element of the agriculture development strategy was to privatize state farms to a number of individual
farmers to increase agricultural productivity. As part of the economic reform process, the GoA decided in 1987 to
dismantle the state farms which represented 40 percent of the domestic agricultural output and to give usufruct
rights to about 27,000 private groups of farmers. In the economic reform program, the GoA set a strategy to
deepen this land privatization process and enhance private sector activities in agriculture.
3.1.3.  In the housing sector, the Government's strategy mainly focused on shifts from a supply-driven, public
sector dominated strategy to a private sector driven and market-oriented sector in order to address more effectively
the chronic shortage of urban housing. In 1990, the new Land Policy Law was enacted to enable free land
transactions of urban land. Prior to this law, transaction of land among private parties was legally prohibited since
municipalities (APC-Assembi6e Populaire Communale) were monopolist suppliers of urban land. APCs were
unable to respond to the growing needs for developed land due to lack of incentives and lack of management
capacity. Pricing of urban land was also politically determined and did not reflect the true market value;
consequently, there was a constant excess demand for urban land, and sustainable urban growth was always
hindered.
3.1.4.  In order to further develop the agriculture and housing sectors, clear registration of land titles was
considered as the most critical step. In agriculture, clearly registered titles would facilitate land transactions and
stimulate farmers to undertake long-term planning of agricultural investments, and enable possible consolidation
of land to improve agricultural productivity through private transactions. In housing, clear titles would stimulate
the rapid development of urban land and housing market through easier transactions and development of
mortgages, and would lead to the economic use of scarce urban land. However, in the early 1990's, reportedly only
5% of private rural and urban owners had clear land titles. Thus, development of a reliable cadastre system to
register and deliver land titles was considered as a most urgent task.
3.1.5.  Actually, the effort to develop a cadastre system started in early 1863 in Algeria but was limited to a small
part of the territory. The system became operational with a comprehensive legal framework for land registration in
1975. This system mainly targeted the northern region of the country covering approximately 110,000 km2 where
the majority of the population lived. However, the development of the cadastre system has been slow due to a
combination of several factors such as: lack of funds and expertise, and duplicated and inefficient institutional
settings. In the late 1980s, the system covered only 5 percent of rural areas and less than I percent of urban land.
3.1.6.  Among all the above factors, reform of the institutional setting was considered most important. In the
early 1990s, two institutions were involved in developing the cadastre system: The National Cadastre Agency
(Agence Nationale du Cadastre, ANC) and Land Registry Office (Conservation Fonciere, CF). Both ANC and CF
were established under DGDN (Direction General du Domain National: General Directorate of Lands) of Ministry
of Finances.   Duplication of tasks and lack of proper coordination between the two institutions were often
- 2 -



observed. ANC had responsibility in mapping and cadastre establishment, while DGDN/CF was in charge of
parcel adjudication and land register maintenance. Within this system, land rights were investigated twice, first by
ANC and again by the CF. Under this arrangement, not only development of the system was slow, but also the
quality of the system was not reliable, due to: (i) lack of clear cadastre establishment procedures, and (ii)
unreliable conveyancing and cadastre maintenance. There was an urgent need to redefine mandates of these two
institutions, establish clear procedures to eliminate duplications, and provide adequate means to increase
efficiency.
3.1.7.  In response, the Government developed a strategy in collaboration with the World Bank in the form of a
new General Cadastre Establishment Program (GCEP), aiming at restructuring institutional setting for developing
the cadastre system and completing the title registration by year 2008 (15 years from 1993). The Cadastre Project
was designed to provide the Govermnent with targeted support to start implementing the GCEP. The Project was
appraised in November 1991.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1.  The project comprised the following three components;
Component 1. Cadastre Mapping and Parcel Adjudication (US$29.6 million, Revised amount: US$24.7
million). This component aimed at supporting the production of cadastral maps and the adjudication of
parcels for 3 million ha of rural land and 36,000 ha of urban land. It also included the testing of various urban
mapping techniques and introduction of computerized parcel registration and map production. In particular,
following activities were planned under this component: (a) launch of an aerial photography program and
improving productivity in INC (Institut National de Cartographie: National Mapping Institute); (b) pilot
surveys of four urban zones and development of stereoplotting systems for urban cadastral mapping; (c)
improving productivity of ANC ground survey teams and CF offices; and (d) promoting the use of computers
for land registration and map drawing.
Component 2. Institutional Support to ANC. (US$2.3 million, Revised amount: US$2.7 million). This
component mainly financed technical assistance and equipment to upgrade the expertise of ANC and to
increase its operational efficiency.  In particular, this component financed the following activities: (a)
preparation of a restructuring plan to show ANC's new organizational structure; and (b) development of a MIS
(management information system), including financial management, and monitoring aspects. These activities
were expected to increase efficiency by simplifying the existing procedures for cadastre registration and
facilitating day-to-day monitoring of ANC 's performance.
Component 3. Technical Assistance and Studies to other Governmental Agencies (US$1.1 million, Revised
amount: US$0.5 million). This component aimed at supporting other agencies than ANC which were
involved in issues related to cadastre and land management systems. The following activities were planned:
(a) training activities for DGDN/CF; (b) technical assistance to the Ministry of Justice for the organization of
land courts in all wilayaete to strengthen legal aspects of the titling procedure; and (c) preparation of a study
on land tenure by the Ministry of Agriculture aimed at identifying constraints to agricultural development that
emanate from issues of rights over land and at developing the policy framework to address these constraints.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1.  The project experienced three extensions and 2 cancellations as follows;
3 extensions:
1) December 1997 (the original closing date) extended to June 1999
2) June 1999 extended to June 2000
3) June 2000 until December 2000
-3 -



2 cancellations:
1) June 1999, US$2.27 million
2) June 2000, US$2.4 million
3.4.2.   The first extension in 1997 was agreed when GTZ started a project which provided additional technical
assistance in support of the Bank's project. Through this extension, the project aimed at focusing more on the
DGDN/CF after making initial achievements in the ANC. The second extension in June 1999 was requested
because of the implementation delays caused by the lack of counterpart financing. Counterpart funds were made
available in two trenches (October 1999 and March 2000) followed by the second extension. Ministry of
Agriculture launched a procurement of a study on agricultural land in October of that year. However, the study
only started in March 2000 and thus the third extension was requested to allow completion of the study.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1.  Quality at Entry was marginally satisfactory. The project rightly aimed at accelerating land registration
through various means, such as strengthening institutions, streamlining the procedures, and modernizing the
system. The technical approach proposed under the project was also appropriate, considering the capacity of the
respective institutions.
3.5.2.  In retrospect, the project impact would have been more substantive if more attention had been paid to
improve the capacity of the DGDN/CF. At appraisal, it was rightfully judged that the consolidation of the ANC
and the DGDN/CF was politically difficult, and that due attention has been paid to simplify the procedures to
register infornation into the cadastre system through eliminating duplication.  In this context,  ANC and
DGDN/CF were to continue as the two major public institutions involved in the cadastre system; ANC is
responsible for land information aspects (e.g. topographic survey), while DGDN/CF are responsible for legal
aspects (title and registration). However, the project's support was targeted largely to the ANC (e.g. Component 2),
and inadequate attention was paid to strengthening the capacity of DGDN/CF. During project implementation, it
was noted that limited capacity of DGDN/CF had indeed become a constraint for timely registration. While
several supervision missions recognized this issue and a training program for DGDN/CF was developed within the
project on an ad-hoc basis, it will take some time to manifest impacts of such technical assistance.
3.5.3.  In addition, the project envisaged a technical assistance program for the Ministry of Agriculture and
Ministry of Justice without defining clearly their roles, although both were regarded as main partners in the
cadastre process (Component 3). This rather complex institutional arrangement required a large amount of
coordination among various public institutions, and has contributed to the delay in project implementation. As was
the case for ANC and DGDN/CF, implementation of the technical assistance for these two ministries faced
difficulties arising from lack of counterpart funds.
3.5.4.  Furthermore, quantitative targets of the project on cadastre map production and adjudication were too
ambitious. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) targeted to cover 3,000,000 ha in rural areas and 36,000 ha in urban
areas by 1997. The project focused mainly on improving mapping techniques in ANC. However, the quantitative
target was set on the overall process, including parcel adjudication. While the target was supposed to be
developed based on pilot exercises in rural and urban areas using various mapping techniques, the target figure
was simply over-optimistic, considering the capacity of the institutions involved and specific characteristics of each
wilaya (district) covered under the project. While ANC progress was substantial, DGDN/CF, in charge of titling,
was eventually recognized as not having sufficient capacity to adapt to this target. A program aimed at filling the
gap between ANC and DGDN/CF only started in 1998, but the implementation duration was too short to provide
results. The project therefore required three extensions amount to a total of 3 years to reach the target set for the
original project duration of 4 years. At the time of this ICR, 96 percent of the SAR target was achieved for rural
areas and 144 percent for urban areas. This indicates that the project, when it initially determined the quantitative
targets, underestimated the time and capacity needed to achieve them. The project has led ANC and DGDN/CF to
considerably improve their efficiency.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
4.1.1.  As stated in Section 3.1, the project objectives are to: (a) strengthen the institutions that implement the
cadastre; (b) support a gradual increase of cadastre-related activities (e.g. topography, mapping) over a four-year
period; and (c) develop information systems based on cadastre for taxation and other land-related purposes. The
project largely met the two first project objectives and met the third objective only partially.
4.1.2.  The project was instrumental in collecting topographical information and developing mapping, which are
essential for the cadastre system (Objective (b) above). Institutional strengthening for ANC was also effective in
increasing the productivity of mapping (Objective (a) above). In particular, at the time of project completion,
approximately 2.9 million hectares, or more than 95 percent of the target (3 million hectares) had been mapped
for rural areas, and 52,000 hectares , or 85 percent of the target (60,000 hectares) for urban areas. Under the
project, the coverage of the cadastre system has more than doubled (from 196,000 hectares in 1993 to 400,000
hectares per year at project completion) for rural areas. For urban areas, the project was instrumental in initiating
the cadastre system (the annual area registered has increased from less than 500 hectares to 15,400 hectares per
year. This increase is due to the fact that productivity has increased dramatically. Productivity measured by
hectares mapped per team per year has increased from 20 to 30 hectares for rural areas, and from 23.4 to 158
hectares for urban areas due mainly to technical assistance, streamlined procedures, and upgraded hardware.
4.1.3.  To a certain extent, the project has also contributed to the institutional development of DGDN/CF.
Although operational results remain modest by project completion, DGDN/CF management has become
nevertheless fully aware of the need for pursuing the reform program and more resources to implement it. To
continue these efforts, it is being suggested that DGDN/CF request new financing through the Housing Finance
Project under preparation with the Bank. Overall, the training program conducted under the project strengthened
morale among key staff. It has nurtured motivation among them in improving the quality of work and reliability of
the information registered into the system. However, as for DGDN/CF, the training program intended for them
was carried out at a relatively late stage of implementation, and the impact of the training was relatively minor at
project completion. In addition, the training program has simultaneously revealed other constraints such as
inadequate intemal communications and poor coordination among different institutions, due to poor initial
institutional arrangement. Under such circumstances, it was impossible for the trained staff to fully utilize their
learning in practice before completion.
4.1.4.  Objective (c) above has been achieved partially at completion.  While the delivery of titles would be
critical to introduce property taxes, at project completion, the Government has not yet introduced the concept of
property tax systems. Titles were prepared for 464,796 lots. Out of these, the project was able to register 149,605
titles by project completion, and more than 40 percent of the titles (64,371 titles) have been delivered to the
respective owners. The project also assisted in preparing a land information system but did not go further than the
pilot phase (objective (c) above). The selected system is an object oriented geographical information and archiving
system. The software is now being installed, after having been tested at a pilot phase. As initially planned, the
cadastre will become the basis of the taxation system only when the titling is fully registered and the computerized
tools are fully installed. In addition, through closer collaboration between ANC and DGDN/CF, accuracy of titling
information obtained in the field has improved. This has contributed to more efficacy in preparing titles. It should
also be noted that the project has contributed to the development of the property market. The number of titles
prepared is expected to increase with a rate of 237,600 titles per year, and impacts related to this objective would
be more visible in the very near future.
4.1.5.  In conclusion, the project was instrumental in supporting the Government to take initial steps in
developing a cadastre system. It has certainly increased Government's capacity to carry out the General Cadastre
Establishment Program (GCEP). The project contributed to the establishment of technical methodologies and
provided critically needed equipment and developed human capital. After the completion of the project, it is
expected that the Government will continue to implement the GCEP. The current speed of the implementation is
following the benchmark set out in the 15 year model described in the study prepared under the project. It should
be noted that through implementing the project, the benefits of merging ANC and DGDN/CF field teams. In
-5-



addition, the Government became aware of the need to merge the DGDN/CF and the ANC to accelerate the
development of a cadastre system, and has started internal discussions to proceed with the possible merger.
4.1.6.  Among the remaining challenges are: (a) development of fiscal cadastre systems, which would be the
basis for the property taxation systems; and (b) introduction of a cost recovery mechanism. Development of a fiscal
cadastre system, together with a property valuation system, was not included within the project scope. But its
future importance as the next step is obvious. A cost recovery mechanism, including quality control and cost
accounting system, shall eventually be introduced to make the cadastre system fiscally sustainable. However, the
Government decided that fees would be charged to land owners only for transactions and not for initial cadastre
setting. In addition, technical standards of some equipment procured through the project have become outdated
over time. They require maintenance and updating to sustain current productivity level. The final supervision
mission discussed these issues with the GTZ, which agreed to provide follow-up technical assistance. It is also
expected that the proposed Housing Finance Project to be financed by the Bank would follow up on these issues.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1.  Component 1. Cadastre Mapping and Parcel Adjudication (Estimated Cost: US$ 65.3 million - Actual
Cost: US $ 48 million). The following activities have been carried out under this component:
Improving branch offices (antennes locales) of the ANC. The project design included the improvement of 28
branch offices of the ANC covering the northern part of the country. GoA decided to finance this component fully
in local currency, and requested an amendment to transfer the equivalent amount to component 2. A total of 16
sites have been completed and works on procurement of works for the remaining 12 sites have started in
accordance with the project objectives. Including the additional 9 local offices being housed in the local offices of
the Ministry of Finance, a total of 36 local offices are now established for the cadastre and titling services.
Mapping works have dramatically improved in speed and quality, with improved working environment and
updated equipment. In the past, the staff of the ANC had been forced to place their work desks in the corridors and
all mapping works were han('led manually. In addition to all branch offices, five regional offices of ANC and 182
local offices of CF and the Headquarter of ANC were also computerized.
Aerial Photography. Undrer this component, a specialized airplane and photographic equipment for the INC (
Institut National de Cartographie: National Mapping Institute) have been purchased. The INC has agreed to
provide aerial photographs for the ANC. This arrangement has accelerated the overall mapping process for the
ANC, particularly in urban areas, as aerial photography turned out to be 7 times more productive than level
topography. The dramatic impacts on production stemming from aerial photography resulted in the decision to
equip a second plane, owned by INC, with high quality digital cameras.
Quality control system and cost accounting system for the ANC. Under the component, technical assistance was
financed to prepare a design of these two systems. This study covered the following aspects: (i) identification of
appropriate indicators to monitor quality and productivity; (ii) experimentation of cost accounting modules in
coordination with GTZ technical team; and (iii) the formation of a consultative process in defining yearly
objectives of mapping production. However, the development of the designed systems was not completed, as it was
considered to be premature. Within the limited resources and human capacity available, it was decided that efforts
should be concentrated on increasing the coverage of mapping and increasing the number of delivered titles at the
very initial process in developing the cadastre system. Nevertheless, some results were achieved : a cost
accounting system has been tested on one wilaya, and the consultative process of defining quantitative objectives
started in 2000. It was considered a success among managers and improved communication between management
layers. As stated in Section 4.1, GTZ has agreed on following up on developing quality control and cost
accounting systems after completion of the project, and it is expected that the study financed under the project
would form a basis for GTZ's activities.
4.2.2.  Component 2. Institutional Support for the ANC (Estimated Cost: US$ 5.8 million - Actual Cost: US
$0.005 million). The component mainly financed training and technical assistance. Under this component,
comprehensive training courses covering administrative, technical, and managerial aspects were offered to the
- 6 -



majority of the ANC staff: the project, in coordination with GTZ, financed a comprehensive training program for
high level staff to be held in France and Germany. ANC created a training unit to assist all operational staff in
adapting to new technology. During project implementation, high level DGDN/CF staff was also included in the
training under this component. At a later stage, DGDN/CF also established a unit in charge of training programs
(Cellule de Formation et de Communication), in order to develop a long-term training strategy targeting all staff.
Management and Organization Study. A study on management and organization of ANC was conducted in 1993.
The study defined and proposed a new organizational structure and information network. According to the
proposed information network, 6 pilot stations were set up in 1996 and 100 computers were procured.
4.2.3.  Component 3. Technical Assistance and Studies of other Governmental Agencies (Estimated Cost: US$
1.4 million - Actual cost: US$ 2.9 million). Under this component, technical assistance was provided to the
Ministries of Justice and Agriculture.
Ministry of Justice. The technical assistance was provided with the following two objectives; (a) to increase
efficiency of lawyers in the judicial phase of the titling process; and (b) to facilitate the establishment of a judicial
system related to land issues. In particular, the technical assistance was provided to establish land courts, train
lawyers, and to acquire documentation for the creation of a judicial database. At completion, 48 land courts were
established covering all wilayete by 1998. In addition, training on land conflict issues was provided to facilitate
the initial operation of the land courts. However, the training was not completed before the loan closing due to the
lack of counterpart financing. The establishment of a legal database was completed and the land courts were
equipped with documentation.
Ministry of Agriculture. The technical assistance helped to prepare a study on agricultural land tenure, which
posed politically sensitive and technically complex problems. These problems involve more than just land
privatization, which affects only about 35 percent of arable land and less than 10 percent of agricultural land,
including the parcours and steppes used for grazing. The study intended to address the following main aspects: (i)
sale and lease of public lands distributed to collective and individual farms (Collective farms have been effectively
divided up into private farms); (ii) completion or restitution through settlement of disputes over land tenure and
cases of prior restitution claims; (iii) development of land markets and associated institutions; (iv) development of
a regulatory framework on traditional communal rights over the steppes and marginal lands; (v) titling on
traditionally private lands; and, (vi) completion of cadastre activities.    The study developed a set of
recommendations and a priority action plan. The final analysis of the Study proposed that a long-term approach
and commitment are required to deal with the above issues on agricultural land tenure. In parallel with the Study,
legislation related to agricultural land tenure is being discussed in the Parliament, in which the Bank played a
consultative role. Once this legislation is passed, need for related regulations and a program to assist market
organizations may arise. Concessions over land also needs to be reviewed and assessed. In this context, the study
has stimulated discussion at technical and policy levels of the Government. The study has been instrumental in
channeling the focus on agricultural land tenure discussions towards technical, administrative and policy issues
and providing a sound basis for future activities in this domain.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No ERR/NPV calculation was carried out at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1.  Refer Section 4.1.5. The Project has made a substantial institutional development impact on two
executing agencies (ANC and DGDN/CF). Although these two agencies have yet to proceed with further
reorganization and improvement in managing capacities, the Project has set the ground for institutional
development.
-7-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1.  There were two major factors beyond the control of the Government which significantly delayed project
implementation: (a) deterioration of the security situation between 1994 and 1996; and (b) the decline in oil price
between 1997 and 1998;
5.1.2.  The serious security problem, particularly in the northem rural area, made it almost impossible for
Govemment staff to carry out topographic surveys and related data collection in the field. In particular, the
implementation of the project was delayed in regions surrounding the Algiers area and in the eastem part of the
country, such as Wilaya Tizi Ouzou and Wilaya Msila.
5.1.3.  The decline in the oil price during 1997 and 1998 seriously affected project implementation, too. As the
state budget is always heavily dependent on revenue from oil sales, counterpart funds in local currency were not
provided on a timely basis between 1997 and 1998, when implementation of the project was at its peak. While
overall expenditure for the project was approved, under the temporary fiscal measures called AP (Autorisation de
programme) and CP (Credit de Paiement), disbursement of counterpart funds scheduled in 1998 were postponed by
more than ten months. This slowed down the project progress in 1998 and 1999.
5.1.4.    In addition to these two factors, unreliable telecommunication made it very difficult for the central
offices of the ANC and the DGDN/CF to monitor progress in local offices and to take due actions in a timely
manner.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1.  The Govermment was slow in simplifying the procedures and institutional arrangement. Among the most
serious factors contributing to the delay in project implementation was a delay in consolidating the procedures
between the two institutions: DGDN/CF and ANC. Consolidation of procedures aimed at simplifying the
institutional arrangement for the cadastre registration and accelerating the process. In addition, centralized and
traditional management of these two agencies resulted in unnecessarily time-consuming procedures for
implementation and lack of initiatives by local staff. The impact of this centralization was even exacerbated in
conjunction with unreliable telecommunication (refer Section 5.1.4.).
5.2.2.  In addition, there are several bureaucratic and unnecessary procedures which have also delayed project
implementation; for example, the approval of the municipalities (APC: Assemble Poplulaire Communal) was
required to initiate the procedures for cadastre mapping; however, communication between the ANC and the APCs
was not always smooth. Often it took more than 5 weeks for the APCs to process such requests, as these APCs did
not fully understand the needs for cadastre registration.
5.2.3.  Because of a lack of commitment from the Government on counterpart resources over the project
implementation period, the annual budget was dependent on extemal factors, such as oil prices, as described above.
Therefore, the implementing agency had to compromise between a multi-year activity program and unreliable
annual resources.
5.2.4.  Disbursement procedures involving the BA ( Bank of Algeria) were also unnecessarily complicated and
contributed to the delay in the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1.  In principle, the performance of ANC and DGDN/CF was satisfactory (refer Section 7.6). Both of these
agencies assigned competent staff dedicated to the implementation of the project. Project administration, including
disbursement and procurement, was satisfactory in general. Annual project audits revealed no major issues.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1.  Changes in project costs occurred between project appraisal and project completion. Total project costs
increased from $96 million to $120.4 million with reduced Bank financing (from $33 million at appraisal to $27.9
-8 -



million at loan closing). Due to the difficulty in obtaining counterpart finance in local currency, as mentioned
above, the parts to be financed by the Bank was downsized. To resolve this difficulty, GTZ provided a grant of
$82.4 million to cover mainly civil works (Civil works which were to have been financed by the Bank at appraisal,
were financed by Government and GTZ.) , recurrent costs and VATs.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1.  Sustainability of project impact is likely. As stated in Section 4.1, the project contributed to initial
implementation of the GCEP through institutional support for the two key institutions in the cadastre sector: the
ANC and the DGDN/CF. The methodologies and systems introduced under the project will continue to be used by
these two institutions to implement the GCEP. However, recurring costs for the maintenance and upgrading of the
equipment acquired was not foreseen and this needs to be resolved to sustain the project impacts. On procedures,
the Government has by now taken all steps to eliminate the duplication between ANC and DGDN/CF which had
been the most important institutional constraint to accelerate the implementation of the GCEP. In addition to the
merger of operational teams (brigade mixte), these two agencies have also set out a joint process of planning
training programs through the project. As for cost efficiency, ANC intends to outsource topographical works to
private surveyors. After a long transitional phase spent in facilitating the creation of a surveyors' association and
organizing training sessions, ANC launched the first series of bidding in late 2000, with the expectation that this
could reduce the cost of registration and thus speed up the overall process.
6.1.2.  While the importance of cost recovery from users was recognized at appraisal as being necessary to
establish sustainable cadastre system, no major actions has been taken in this end under the project. In this
context, it cannot be concluded that the sustainability of the system is fully ensured. However, this decision may
well be justified, as at the very initial stage of developing the cadastre system, it was more important to increase
the geographical coverage of the area and increase the reliability of the registered information. Indeed, the Bank
supervision mission in 1995 supported this decision not to require beneficiaries to pay fees for the issuance of title
in order to accelerate the progress, since it recognized that beneficiaries might not be willing to participate in the
project, as registering in the cadastre system would imply future taxation on their property. In retrospect, this was
a wise decision, as the ANC and DGDN/CF were able to accelerate the title establishment.
6.1.3.  Both the ANC and the DGDN/CF are aware of the importance of cost recovery, and requested GTZ, the
co-financier of the project, to provide continued support, mainly technical assistance, to prepare a plan to introduce
a cost recovery mechanism. In response, GTZ is planning to first evaluate the economic impacts of the cadastre
systems, and then prepare a concrete plan to increase quality of the information registered in the system and then,
in the longer term, develop a fiscal cadastre system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1.  In addition to the continued support of the GTZ (refer Section 6.1), the Bank would provide follow-up
technical assistance mainly targeted to DGDN, to support a comprehensive reorganization of the directorate. This
request, considered as the next priority by the Government, is now being considered for possible financing under
the proposed Housing Finance Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending: Unsatisfactory
7.1.1.  The Bank's performance during project preparation was considered marginally satisfactory. Whereas the
overall project objective to provide institutional technical assistance was indeed appropriate at the very initial stage
in developing the cadastre system, the project also contained activities, such as studies for the Ministry of
Agriculture, which were premature in retrospect. In light of the limited capacity of the implementing agency, this
blurred their focus, and caused delay in project implementation.
-9-



7.1.2.  In the meantime, the project preparation team did not elaborate on the optimal institutional set-up for the
cadastre system. The initial project design did not also pay due attention to the importance of strengthening the
DGDN/CF. In retrospect, the impacts of the project, mainly delivery of titles, would have been much more
substantial, if the institutional arrangement had been completed at the start of the project, or more substantial
institutional support for the DGDN/CF had been considered at appraisal so that the project could have focused on
identification of the technical methodologies and development of the registration procedures.
7.1.3.  The quantitative targets set during project preparation were also ambitious. A project preparation study
carried out during project preparation set out two options: 10 year and 15 year to complete the GCEP. For rural
areas, the targets were set according to the 15 years model at appraisal. But the actual amount and the pace of
achievement was much more modest than the targets. For urban areas, the targets were set at appraisal even lower
than those of the 10 year and 15 year models. However, the actual achievement was still consistently below what
was forecasted at appraisal in spite of the increasing emphasis on urban cadastre work for the last few years.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1.  In general, the Bank's supervision effort was satisfactory, considering the enormous difficulties due to the
security situation and communication problems. The Bank team has responded to many issues arising during
project implementation and provided the borrower with practical suggestions such as postponing the cost recovery
and including DGDN/CF in the institutional strengthening. The Bank's supervision mission was also effective in
providing general suggestions on project management, such as formation of training teams through training of
trainers program and introduction of quality control systems.
7.2.2.  The Bank's supervision team faced difficulties in supervising the Project due to security problems from
1994 to 1996. The supervision mission either occurred in Paris or through the help of a local consultant.
Although the project involved field work all over the country, it was difficult to follow up on the progress of
cadastre work in the field. In spite of these difficulties that hindered supervision missions to Algeria during these
years, the Bank's team (HQ staff and the local consultant ) was proactive in keeping constant communication not
only with the Algerian stakeholders such as ANC and DGDN/CF, but also with GTZ (the co-financier of the
project) to keep monitoring project implementation. The arrangement to hire local consultants to collect
information needed to supervise the project worked out well. The local consultant, in a situation where the
Headquarter staff could not visit the country, served as a crucial communication bridge between the Bank and the
Algerian authorities. The mid-term review for the project was carried out by this local consultant in October 1996.
The review focused on: (i) decentralization of administrative management; (ii) staff recruitment policy; (iii)
training programs; and, (iv) achievement in rural and urban mapping. In this review, among other things, it was
observed that ANC was strengthening its institution through following targets set in the SAR for recruitment of
staff and a training program consistent with the recommendations from the management study in 1994. On the
other hand, it was observed that institutional strengthening of DGDN/CF needed more attention.  The Bank's
supervision has been consistent in following-up the above concerns raised in the Mid-Term Review. Although it
was initiated only close to the loan closing, a unit in charge of training programs was set up in DGDN and the
joint teams of ANC and DGDN/CF in cadastre work were formulated. The Bank's supervision was instrumental in
encouraging increased collaboration between ANC and DGDN/CF along with the on-going decentralization of
both agencies.
7.2.3.  The Bank team  also effectively assisted the Borrower in monitoring the progress on the technical
assistance, discussed the interim outcome of the technical assistance with GTZ, and ensured the quality of the final
outputs of the various studies under the project. The supervision team was consistently proactive to this end. GTZ
will continue providing assistance on the cadastre system in the coming years, particularly in the area of
establishing information systems for cost accounting, quality control and land information (archiving). However,
the Bank could have promoted more policy dialogue with the Algerian authorities in an effort to ensure the
efficient cadastre system would be linked to the achievement of economic reform from the perspective of
establishing fiscal cadastre and land valuation systems.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory.
- 10-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation was considered satisfactory.
7.4.1.  Through project preparation, the Borrower had become aware of the duplication of tasks of ANC and
DGDN/CF, and the needs to simplify the procedures. During project preparation, the Government of Algeria had
agreed to integrate the ANC and CF at the local level in order to improve the efficiency of title registration process,
particularly in the process of updating mapping information required for title registration. Although this did not
happen until close to the end of the project, it was indeed a major step forward to integrate the services of the two
agencies and improve the coherence of the land titling procedure.
7.4.2.  In addition, ANC and DGDN/CF, under the support of Ministry of Finance took the important steps to
prepare the project before effectiveness, including the preparation of a four-year implementation plan with budget,
the appointment of a project team within ANC and the recruitment of 12 public accountants by ANC. One of the
efforts by DGDN to be noted is in simplifying the provisional adjudication system in which the five-year period of
allowing possible claims was reduced to two years. This required five-year pending period was regarded as an
obstacle to the development of a market of private land. The simplification of the process shortened the overall
period of cadastre implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1.  The Government's performance during project implementation is considered unsatisfactory.  GoA's
policy commitment and its compliance with the legal covenants were consistent during the whole duration of the
project. However, during the course of implementation, the Government could have taken actions to resolve
critical constraints faced by the Project such as ; (i) ensuring budget for counterpart financing as committed in the
Loan Agreement when the oil price declined between 1997 and 1998; (ii) improving coordination with
municipalities (APCs) in districts (wilayaete) and (iii) simplifying the disbursement procedures to facilitate project
implementation and to cut unnecessary bureaucratic constraints. In addition, the implementation of Component 3
was delayed due to the poor coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Justice.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1.  The implementation agencies (the ANC and the DGDN/CF) were considered satisfactory. I)uring project
implementation, both ANC and DGDN/CF were committed to the project's development objectives (refer Section
5.3).  Although procurement was delayed often due to administrative complications and lack of counterpart
financing, the procurement was conducted in compliance with the Bank's procedure. Audit was carried out in
compliance with the Bank's procedure.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Although the Government's performance lacked in due diligence to ensure the timely implementation
of the project particularly when the project suffered from lack of counterpart financing, implementation agencies
made their best efforts in achieving the project's development objectives and quantitative targets. Overall
Borrower Performance is thus rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned through this project can be summarized as the following points;
Institutional Analysis. In designing a project aiming at establishing a system to deliver public sector services,
such as cadastre, well-designed institutional analysis should be carried out in order to: (i) assess the current
institutional set-up and human capacity; (ii) confirm the interest of beneficiaries; and, (iii) identify the optimal
arrangement. Such an analysis should also include formulation of an overall implementation schedule/timetable
and monitoring indicators based on realistic assumptions. In the case of this project, the focus should have been on
establishing a solid base of operations rather than aiming at perfecting the system from the beginning.
- 11 -



Implementation Period. It often requires ample time to set out a new system in any country. In this context, the
original implementation period, 4 years, was unrealistic. The project required three extensions, which led to the
duration of eight years compared to the original duration of four years. Reviews of the Bank's projects on land
titling also point out that "the projects usually extend for periods of between five to seven years and form the start
of longer-term government land titling and cadastre programs."  Another review of land titling projects was
conducted in 1992. In this review, it is reported that out of 12 operations, most performed poorly because of: (i)
lack of political support; (ii) conflicting bureaucratic priorities; (iii) lack of institutional capacity of support; and
(iv) complex multiple objectives with land titling as only an adjunct.
Project design approach and the speed of implementation. In the project design which is focused on the
establishment of a certain system of service provision, particularly projects on cadastre systems, a "building-block
approach" or an incremental approach may be applied. Such an incremental approach seeks to gradually improve
the system. As the review of the Bank's titling project in ECA countries states, "Implementation should not be
dominated by efforts to create the perfect solutions right at the beginning of the process. The "building-block
approach" may be more practical, thus enabling the project to set more realistic goals that can be met". In the case
of the Cadastre Project, it was more practical to start with the two agencies, although this was not an ideal situation
to start with. But by the end of the project, the two have established stronger collaboration to produce titles. Closer
institutional ties and partnership are foreseen with more joint activities not only in the area of title production but
also in the area of training/capacity building.
Need for sensitization and outreach for beneficiaries. For the project's benefits to penetrate to the target
population (intended beneficiaries), it is crucial to assess the level and nature of their interest and their potential
benefit. Based on this assessment, it would be useful to consider additional efforts to sensitize them on the benefit
they can obtain from title registration. One of the broad/long-term objectives of the project was to improve
agricultural productivity and creation of a viable land market through ensuring the legal boundary of properties.
Title registration was regarded as crucial to establish the legal base of properties. It has been proven in the project
that APC/municipalities with a public campaign on absenteeism (i.e. absence of land owners' presence in the
surveyed areas) have been progressing better than those without a campaign. Although negative impact of
worsening security situations on absenteeism posed a constraint in field operations, importance of outreach and
sensitization activities should be considered.
The Project improved the number of titles made ready for the pick-up and use of the individual property owners.
After the project's implementation, it is expected that the turn out of individuals requesting title registration would
improve. Since the policy for registration system is developed in such a way that the delivery of titles remains
dependent on the voluntary turn out of individual owners, without their turn-out, it would be difficult for the
project to achieve its utmost intended benefits to increase the number of titles delivered. To create a supporting
environment for the project's sustainability, it may be useful to consider additional efforts (such as publicity
campaign) to sensitize people on the benefits and the procedure of cadastre.
Simplification vs Complexity of existing situation in the institutional arrangement. It would be important to
judge feasibility and relevancy in the case of working with multiple agencies concurrently and to reflect them in
the project design. The project had to deal with the complexity of involving several agencies under different
ministries and decision-making processes. It would be clearly easier to involve a single agency for the project and
this was also one of the recommendations in the Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS) Review meeting.
According to the review of the Bank's land titling projects and other international experiences, it is also
recommended that the system of cadastre and land administration be operated by one public authority and not split
between two or more ministries or authorities. In the case of the Cadastre Project, it was more "realistic" to work
with the two existing agencies (ANC and DGDN/CF) and to select ANC as the main coordinator than to limit the
operations to a single agency. But this has resulted in slower than planned progress in project implementation.
Enhancing policy dialogue. Opportunities for policy dialogue could have been encouraged more during project
implementation, particularly to increase awareness of policy-makers of the importance of cadastre/title registration
linked to economic and housing policy reform. Title registration has close linkage to the establishment of a land
- 12 -



tax system, and related systems such as land valuation/appraisal system. During the implementation of the project,
the policy environment was still undeveloped. In addition, cost recovery through fees which were envisaged at the
appraisal of the Project have not materialized yet. The initial cadastre is considered as a public service. Thus cost
recovery will only materialize for transactions after the establishment of the initial cadastre. Cost accounting data
will then help define fees to be charged to users. The GTZ project that follows after the completion of the Project,
is considering the inclusion of an analysis on economic impacts of cadastre and title registration with a view to
establishing cost recovery systems in the future. After ten years of implementation, the environment is finally
beginning to favor discussion of the policy issues as above. It would be important for the Bank to continue policy
dialogue with the Government on broader policy issues that ensures the sustainability of the cadastre system.
Collaboration and partnership with the bilateral agency. One of the reasons for the project's satisfactory
outcome was a well-coordinated collaboration/partnership with GTZ. The funding of equipment and technical
assistance (training activities) were coordinated in a complementary and constructive manner, instead of
overlapping of efforts. Constant communication and supervision were conducted in a mutually beneficial and
complementary way (the Bank task manager attended the review meeting of GTZ, and the representative of GTZ
attended the Bank supervision mission meetings). The shared objective of the two institutions was also beneficial
to the ANC and DGDN/CF. GTZ, as a donor and technical assistance agency, monitored closely the
implementation and also provided tools for developing a solid implementation framework for the project, such as
ZOPP methodology and the logical framework. Whereas the Bank, as a financing institution, ensured the
implementation process through financing not only the equipment but also training on management and technical
skills. The Bank team also contributed to the continuation of dialogue with the agencies and ministries involved.
The collaboration between the Bank and GTZ also occurred in the area of quality control and cost accounting
systems. In this sense, the collaboration in the project maximized the strengths of both institutions in serving the
borrower.
Importance of human resource development and capacity development. For a  project which involves
institutions delivering services, it is important to address human resource development and the improvement of
management skills. The training programs and the process of planning follow-up activities are an entry-point to
discuss modes of closer collaboration between ANC and DGDN. The last part of the project (since 1998) shed
light on the training on management skills for the top management of ANC and DGDN. This came with the
understanding among all the project's stakeholders that without good communication and management skills (such
as delegation of tasks), it would be difficult to meet the intended organizational goals. Although this was not
envisaged at the stage of appraisal, the management of training and the formation of the training team in ANC and
DGDN were found to be beneficial. They will enhance the capacity building of staff concerned and will address
the organizational issues that need improvement and change.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PRESENTATION DU PROJET
DOCUMENTATION FONCIERE GENERALE
1-CONTEXTE GENERAL ET GENESE
Le projet Documentation Fonciere Generale (DFG) identifie en 1989 est l'une des deux principales
mesures prises par le gouvernement pour donner un nouvel elan aux op6rations cadastrales et a I'
immatriculation des proprietes foncieres sur 1'ensemble du territoire national.
- 13 -



2-APPROCHE INTEGREE
Le projet concu au depart pour repondre aux besoins de l'Agence Nationale du Cadastre(ANC) a et6
6tendu aux Conservations Foncieres (CF) chargees de la partie juridique (immatriculation des
immeubles cadastres au livre foncier), ainsi qu'aux d6partements ministeriels et institutions de soutien
direct ,a savoir l'Institut National de Cartographie et de T6l6detection (INCT), le Minist&re de la
Justice(MJ), le Ministere de l'Agriculture(MA) et le Centre National des Techniques Spatiales (CNTS).Les
moyens identifies couvrent 1'ensemble des besoins tant sur le plan technique que juridique, institutionnel
et organisationnel. ll a te juge utile dans ce cadre d'operer, au pr6alable, une simplification du dispositif
juridique et institutionnel regissant le cadastre general et le livre foncier ainsi qu'une r6organisation
appropriee des services concern6s.Ces changements se sont traduit par:
-l'amendement du decret n76-62 du 25 mars 1976 relatif 3 1'etablissement du cadastre gen6ral par le
d6cret executif n92-234 du 07 avril 1992;
-l'amendement du d6cret n76-63 du 25 mars 1976 relatif 3 I'institution du livre foncier
par le d6cret ex6cutif n93-123 du 19 mai 1993;
-I'amendement du decret ex6cutif n89-234 du 19 decembre 1989 portant cr6ation d'une agence
nationale du cadastre ,par le decret executif n092-63 du 12 fevrier 1992.
Ces amendements ont port6 essentiellement sur:
-le dep6t des documents cadastraux a la conservation fonciere qui peut s'effectuer d6sormais par section
ou par groupe de sections le renforcement de la composition de la commission cadastrale de
d6limitation ;la duree de l'immatriculation fonciere qui a ete ramenee a de 5 a 2 ans pour 1
immatriculation provisoire et 3 4 mois pour un immeuble ayant fait l'objet d'une possession ayant atteint
la duree legale de prescription acquisitive;
-la redaction de la fiche d'immeuble par le cadastre.
II-OBJECTIFS ET CONTENU DU PROJET DFG
1-OBJECTIFS STRATrEGIQUES
Le projet a ete congu comme un soutien 3 I'etablissement de la DFG pour aider le Gouvernement
algerien A creer un cadre legal et propice pour I'assainissement de la situation fonciere, la mise en
ceuvre de ses reformes , le d6veloppement du march6 foncier, le renforcement de l'investissement priv6
dans l'agriculture, le logement et l'industrie, et etablir les bases d'une politique fiscale fonciere
6quitable.D'une maniere gen6rale les objectifs du projet sont de:
-renforcer les institutions chargees de l'etablissement de la DFG :l'ANC,la CF,I'INCT
le MJ,le MA ;contribuer a l'augmentation de la production cadastrale et de l'immatriculation sur une
periode de quatre ans ;developper des systemes d'informations bases sur la DFG pour des usages
fonciers ou fiscaux.
En clair le projet est destin6 3 r6unir les conditions necessaires pour ameliorer la production cadastrale et
l'immatriculation en qualit6 et en quantit6 afin de parvenir 3 1'etablissement du cadastre general et du
livre foncier sur l'ensemble des communes d'Algerie dans les 15 annees 3 venir. Ces conditions
consistent notamment en la mise en place progressive entre 1993 et 1997(2000 apres prorogation) des
moyens:
-materiels (equipements des services de IANC et de la Conservation Fonciere (CF) en
materiels de topographie, photogrammetrie, informatique, vehicules tout terrain)
-humains (formation et perfectionnement des personnels);
- infrastructurels (realisation de batiments administratifs);
-organisationnels (assistance technique , r6alisation d'etudes sp6cifiques suivies de la mise en ceuvre
des resultats correspondants en matiere de formation d'informatisation et d'organisation), permettant 3
I'ANC d'accroitre sa production pour atteindre un rythme de production et de maintenance satisfaisant et
de generaliser l'informatisation de la documentation cadastrale et du livre foncier pour aboutir 3 la mise
en place d'une base de donn6es foncieres accessible aux autres utilisateurs.
Les structures de soutien ont ete integrees dans ce projet ,notamment en ce qui concerne:
- l'INCT pour la production de prises de vues aeriennes et supports de base du plan cadastral.
- le MA pour mener une etude relative au foncier agricole
- le MJ pour la mise en place de juridictions specialisees en foncier, la creation d'une bibliotheque
fonciere et la mise en oeuvre de projets pilotes d'informatisation de la jurisprudence fonciere
- 14 -



- le CNTS pour la formation technique specialis6e des personnels destin6s au cadastre.
2-COMPOSANTES DU PROJET
Le projet comprend les composantes suivantes:
a-un programme de quatre ans pour la production de plans cadastraux et l'immatriculation des
immeubles concernant 3 millions d'hectares de terres rurales et 36000 hectares de terres urbaines pour
lesquelles des techniques cadastrales urbaines seront testees et l'informatisation de la production de
plans et de l'immatriculation des immeubles sera introduite.
b-le renforcement de I'agence nationale du cadastre des conservations foncieres ,de l'INC
c-une assistance technique liee au projet, formations et etudes
3-CONDITIONS DE SUPERVISION ET D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
1-Le decret Presidentiel n092-440 du 02/12/1992 ratifiant l'accord de pr&t BIRD a institue un comite de
suivi .Compte tenu de sa composition la mission du comite de suivi a 6te confiee au Conseil
d'Administration (CA) de l'ANC.
20-un Chef de projet et un responsable de la formation ont ete designes des le d6but du projet
conform6ment a l'accord de pret ;un 6cheancier de r6alisation approuve par la Banque Mondiale ,a 6te
arrete dbs le debut du projet; il a ete actualise au fur et a mesure des missions de supervision de la
Banque Mondiale ;un plan pluriannuel de production a et6 arrete des le d6but du projet.ll a ete actualise
au fur et a mesure des missions de supervision de la BIRD. ;un projet de budget d'execution precisant
les dotations financieres necessaires au projet est adresse par le Ministere des finances a la BIRD en
debut de chaque annee; un rapport de l'ANC donnant l'etat d'avancement du projet est adresse chaque
trimestre au Ministere des finances ;le Ministere des finances est tenu r6gulierement informe de
I'appreciation par la Banque mondiale de l'avancement du projet, a la suite des missions de supervisions
qui se tiennent tous les six mois environs et auxquelles participent les representants du projet et le
president du CA.Les missions de supervision de la BIRD sont reguliirement accompagnees de
consultants specialises utiles pour le projet ,notamment pour les questions d'ordre technique et
organisationnel;un plan d'action est arrete et mis en ceuvre a l'issue de chaque mission de supervision de
la Banque Mondiale pour la poursuite du projet et ia prise en charge des recommandations qui sont
faites.
III- REALISATION DU PROJET
PARTIE AJMISE EN PLACE D'UNE DFG
1-Execution de la Dremiere Deriode
Le bilan de la phase 1993-96 a enregistre 1,8 millions hectares (60%), comprenant le cadastre general
des communes et des exploitations agricoles du secteur public (y inclus les operations de delimitation et
d'assainissement des exploitations agricoles integrees progressivement dans le cadastre des DAS) et
9.000 hectares (25%) en cadastre urbain.
Le bilan 1993-2000 p6eode reelle du projet enregistre 2,9 millions hectares en rural (96%, y inclus les
op6rations de d6limitation et d'assainissement des exploitations agricoles int6grees progressivement
dans le cadastre des DAS) et 52000 hectares en urbain (117%).
PRODUCTION CADASTRALE DURANT LA PHASE D'EXECUTION DU PROJET DFG 1993-2000
Nb.Br=Nombre de brigades constituees
Sugerficie=superficie totale realis6e par les brigades
C.DAS=cadastre des domaines autoger6s socialistes
Asst=Assainissement des exploitations agricoles (travaux de reprises de delimitation)
APF/CAfTOPO=travaux topographiques divers au profit des services publics+travaux dans le cadre de l'accession a
la propriete fonciere, et de la mise en valeur par voie de concession.
- 15-



Ann6e...          1993   1994           1995          1996         1997         1998          1999        12000
TYPE DE  Nb   Super-  Nb   Super-  Nb   Super-  Nb   Super-  Nb   Super-  Nb   Super-  Nb   Super-  Nb            Super-
TRAVAUX  Br    ficie   Br    ficie   Br    Ficie  Br    Ficie  Br    ficie   Br    Ficie  Br    ficie   Br          ficie
Cadastre   108  196085  89   161941  131  237660  124  325968  116  402706  101  384808  93  348259  105   355224
rural
Cadastre  23        468   49    1294  63    2395   106   4964   115  10008  142  10723  162  11798  157    13002
urbain      I_I_I__I_I_
Autres   221             205          152           115          126           130           136          137
travaux           47411        78976           0           2087           0           2572          1436          49
C.DAS          406145        160059        34403        78925         49641        45151         20847
Asst           66117        53007         92498        100528        38965         53204        39800          50
APF ICAFTOPO
41
13
3
79
96
Total     352  716226 1343  455277  346  366956  345  512472  357  501320  373  496458  391  422140  399  1494478
EVOLUTION DE LA PRODUCTION CADASTRALE DE 1993 i 2000
1993                                                                         2000
MOYENS UTILISES
Cadastre rural          216 agents                                                                      210 agents
Cadastre urbain         92 agents                                                                       628 agents
S /total                 308 agents                                                                      838 agents
Autre travaux           442 agents                                                                      274 agents
Total                   750 agents                                                                     1112 agents
Taux/ cadastre  =42%  des moyens                                                                75%  des moyens
PRODUCTION
Cadastre rural           196.000 ha                                                                     355.000 ha
Cadastre urbain              468 ha                                                                       13.000 ha
RENDEMENT
Cadastre rural           1814 ha /brigade                                                        3381 ha/brigade
Cadastre urbain              20 ha/brigade                                                          83 ha/brigade
DESIGNATION                                                  RESULTATS
communes rurales cadastr&es au 31/12/1992                   143 (+85 en cours) en 17 ans soit en moyenne 8/an
au 31/12/2000               316 (+161 en cours).en 8 ans soit en
moyenne 22/an (+10 en cours/an)
remises ala CF au 31/12/1992                  60 en 17 ans soit en moyenne 3,5/an
au 31/12/2000                222 +101 remises partielles soit en moyenne 33/an
sections urbaines cadastr&es  au 31/12/1992                 267.en 17 ans soit en moyenne 16/an
au 31/12/2000                 4288 en 8 ans soit en moyenne 502/an
remises a la CF au 31/12/1992                  0 en 17 ans soit 0/an
au 31/12/2000               674 en 8 ans soit en moyenne 84/an
unites foncieres cadastrees    au 31/12/1992                218.922 en 17 ans soit en moyenne 12.877/an
959.753 (+75.000 C.DAS) en 8 ans soit en
au 31/12/2000                moyenne 92.603/an (+9375 EAC-EAI/an)
63.253 en 17 ans soit en moyenne 3721/an
u.f remis a la CF au 31/12/1992                 530.000 (y compris EAC-EAI cadastrees)
u.f remis a la CF au 31/12/2000                                  soit en moyenne 58.343/an
- 16 -



Remarques:
1-Le programme de production arret6 pour la pbriode 1993-1996 ne correspond pas avec la mise en
place reelle des moyens du projet; les appareils topographiques de la 1 ere tranche ne sont op6rationnels
qu'a partir du 2eme trimestre 1994 les v6hicules de la 1bre tranche ne sont operationnels qu'a partir du
3eme trimestre 1994 .11 en est de meme pour ceux de la 2bme tranche opbrationnels a partir du 3bme
trimestre 1995 et la dernibre tranche de vbhicules en 1997. La pbriode de mise en place des moyens de
production ,etendue a l'ann6e 1999 est plus logique.
2-Les moyens materiels et humains a mettre en place pour le cadastre urbain (nombre de brigades) ont
etb sous estimbs et n'ont pas 6tb identifies des le dbpart .Aujourd'hui ils reprbsentent 58% des moyens.
3-le programme de formation des agents en cours de carribre a influ6 sur le deroulement des travaux
cadastraux (immobilisation des brigades)
4-L'ANC a etb mobilisbe des le d6but de l'ann6e 1993 pour les opbrations de cadastre des exploitations
agricoles du secteur publique .Les r6sultats enregistr6s ont etb satisfaisants puisque prbs de 99% des
EAC,EAI constitubes, issues de la restructuration des DAS ont ete cadastr6es.
5-L'INC n'a pu mettre a la disposition de l'ANC les restitutions a grande bchelle n6cessaires pour le
cadastre urbain;l'appel d'offres pour la PDV a 6t6 retardb ; la soci6tb allemande n'a  commence les
travaux de PDV qu'en MAI 1995.1e nouvel avion a etb receptionnbe en 1996
)es travaux de leve ont donc eu lieu par procede terrestre ,qui prend beaucoup de temps.l1 en est de
meme pour le rural avec une couverture orthos insuffisante d'ou des leves terrestres plus longs
6-les services du cadastre ont 6te bgalement trbs sollicites pour des leves des affaires domaniales ou de
services publics ainsi que d'APF (de 1993 a 1996 pres de 25000 lev6s ont 6t6 effectu6s couvrant
250.000 ha)
7-11 ya lieu de signaler enfin que les problemes de s6curitb ont influe tres n6gativement sur le
d6roulement des travaux cadastraux notamment en 1993,1994 et 1995.La situation s6curitaire n'a pas
permis de dbployer convenablement les moyens matbriels et humains mis en place.Le plan pluriannuel a
ote actualisb aprbs les recommandations de la mission de supervision de la Banque Mondiale en 1994
.Une amblioration de la production a etb enregistrbe depuis le 2bme semestre 1995 mais les r6sultats
sont restes en deca des objectifs..Sur recommandation de la BM ,un reajustement des quotas de
production a et6 bgalement op6rb en 1999 sur la base de nouveaux criteres.La mission de supervision
de juin 1995 de la Banque Mondiale a recommande aussi la mise en place d'un systeme contr6le-qualite
et d'une comptabilit6 analytique La 1 ere 6tape a 6tb engagbe,elle se poursuit dans le cadre de la
coopbration technique alg6ro-allemande
2-Realisation de la DFG de 4 zones pilotes
Les zones pilotes de cadastre urbain ont bt6 realisbes sur Birtouta-Mostaganem-Oran-EI Oued:Le bilan
de ces op6rations pilotes a permis de tirer des enseignements utiles pour la gen6ralisation des op6rations
du cadastre urbain (utilisation d'une echelle adbquate, utilisation de restitutions numeriques et
graphiques, utilisation du carnet electronique, traitement graphique),ce qui devrait ameliorer le
rendement, la qualite des travaux ,la comoditb des procedures et r6duire les d6lais.
3-Mise en place des moyens de leve cadastral, du livre foncier et de couverture aerienne
Les differents moyens de leve cadastral, du livre foncier et de couverture a6rienne qui ont e  identifibs
et mises en place (COUT total: 24.721.970 $/ 1.241.027.096 DA).
4-Etablissement du livre foncier
L'immatriculation des unites foncibres cadastr6es au livre foncier durant la periode 1993-2000 , a touchb
328.346 immeubles ruraux et 67.810 immeubles urbains soit au total 396.156 immeubles.La situation
comparative se resume comme suit:
-situation au 31/12/1992: 63.253 UF immatriculees ,soit en moyenne 3.7201AN
-situation au 31/12/2000 :459.509 UF immatriculees ,soit en moyenne 49.519/AN soit une progression
annuelle de 1331%
- 17 -



SITUATION AU 31112192    SITUATION AU 3111212000   OBSERVATIONS
DESIGNATION           NOMBRE               NOMBRE
Zones rurales
Communes concernees     56                    355
Sections deposees       628                    5971
Unites fonc. immatriculees   63.253           391.599
Livrets fonciers ddlivr6s  21.423             56.941                 LF.etablis :136.427
Zones urbaines
Agglomdrations concern6es  0                   41
Sections d6pos6es       0                     811
Unites fonc. Immatriculees   0                67.810
5- Mise en place de la couverture a6rienne (sous composante INCT)
Durant la phase d'ex6cution du projet 1993-2000,1'INCT a r6alise pour le compte de l'ANC les
couvertures aeriennes et les orthophotoplans et restitutions suivantes:
Orhophotoplans au 1/5000 :3.923.000 ha
Orthophotoplans au 1/2500 :776.000 ha
Ortophotoplans au 1/10.000 :256.000 ha
Orthophotoplans au 1/20.000 :2.899.000 ha
Prises de vues aeriennes au 1/10.000 :456.000 ha
Prises de vues aeriennes au 1/40.000 :256.000 ha
Prises de vues a6riennes au 1/4000 :55.740 ha
Une partie du programme de prises de vues aeriennes a 6t6 realise en sous traitance par l'INCT aprbs
appel d'offres international .L'ANC a egalement realise durant cette periode 1995-2000 :39.277 ha de
restitutions urbaines au 1/1000.
PARTIE B-ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
I-R6alisation  de I'6tude d'organisation et de sch6ma directeur informatique
Les etudes d'organisation et de schema directeur informatique ont W jumelees en raison de la selection du
mame bureau d'etudes d'une part et des liens fonctionnels qu'elles presentent d'autre part. L'etude a defini
un nouvel organigramme de I'ANC et un schema directeur informatique
(SDI) ANC-CF avec un echeancier de realisaton.Le SDI arrete prevoit l'informatisation de 48 antennes
du cadastre et 182 conservations foncieres en mati&e de Bureautique de donnees litterales et
graphiques avec la consistance physique et quantitative des mat6riels et logiciels et un ech6ancier de
r,alisation (1 994-1997 actualis6 a 2000).11 s'agit de:
-230 micros de bureautique-72 stations graphiques-283 systbmes de conservations cadastrales et
foncibres48 traceurs AO-230 equipements de securit6 informatique-4 stations de digitalisation-1 systbme
de developpement - logiciels de constitution et de gestion se la DFG - logiciels de gestion
La mise en ceuvre du SDI a donne lieu a l'acquisition et la mise en service des mat6riels et logiciels au
niveau des services du cadastre et des conservations foncieres.
2- R6alisation d'uns 6tude de plan de formation
L'6tude entreprise s'est deroulee en 2 etapes:
1ere etape Adiagnostic, analyse de l'existant, constat, examen des etablissements de formation examen
des profils de formation ;identification des besoins et definition des axes et priorites
d'intervention(formation de masse, formation de haut niveau, ciblage des insuffisances de
connaissances, formation technico-pedagogique de formateurs, preparation de manuels et diffusion de la
formation dans les services
2bme 6tage :preparation des programmes et formation des cadres
- 18-



MISE EN CEUVRE DU PLAN DE FORMATION
FORMATION EN COURS DE CARRIERE
-pour le recyclage des agents techniques (formation en cours de carriere) 10 ingenieurs du cadastre ont
et6 selectionnes en 1993 pour une formation de formateurs (formation technico-pedagogique) aupres de
l'GN-(Saint Mand6 ) et I'ENC (Toulouse) -France. Les formateurs ont entrepris depuis juillet 1994 ,leur
programme de formation des personnels techniques dans les wilayas (48 wilayas ont e  touchees soit
1040 agents. Le programme se poursuit en residentiel dans des centres de formation ,33 sessions ont eu
lieu touchant 428 agents -
FORMATION INITIALE
-pour le recrutement externe ,trois conventions ont 6te signees depuis 1993 avrec le CNTS- Arzew
(ING+TS+CTL) ,I'ITTPB-Kouba (CTL) et le CFP Djelfa (CTL).D'autres formations ont lieu egalement
aupres des CFP de Bouira et Tlemcen. 433 nouveaux agents ont ete formes (315 CTL,72 INS,46
ING);176 sont en cours de formation.
FORMATIONS SPECIFIQUES
Pour la mise en place de l'atelier de photogrammetrie 10 techniciens du cadastre ont ete selectionnes et
envoyes enl 993 a l'IPO de STUTTGART- ALLEMAGNE pour une formation d'operateurs
photogrammetres .La formation s'est pousuivie par un perfectionnement a l'INC (Alg6rie) en 1993 et
1994 puis sur site au niveau de l'atelier de l'ANC et qui a permis le demarrage effectif de l'atelier de
photogrammetrie pour la production de restitutions de zones urbaines.L'atelier est op6rationnel.
-divers personnels ont ete formes aupres des fournisseurs du materiel de photogrammetrie de
topographie (GPS) , d'informatique de reprographie,de logiciels DFG,de logiciels de gestion.,de
scanerisation de plans.1 13 ingenieurs et tecniciens ont ete formes ;36 ing6nieurs et techniciens ont suivi
des formations dans le cadre de la cooperation technique algero- allemande - 2 cadres de l'ANC ont
suivi une formation depost graduation a I'ENC et I'IGN ( France) dans le cadre de la cooperation
technique algero-francaise .
FORMATION DES CADRES
-l'organisation par I'IGN-France ,j'ENSAIS -France et AXIT-GEO-Suisse de stages de perfectionnement
pour le personnel d'encadrement de l'ANC ,la DGDN(CF et Domaines) en milieu professionnel et
management ,qui ont demarre en juin 1995,130 cadres ont suivi ces stages (61 ANC et 69 DGDN).
Evolution des effectifs
P6riode    131/12/1992  131/12/2000  Observations
Effectif    2232        2963        Cadres 34%,Personnel technique d'execution50%
total                               Informaticiens 3,5%,gestion et transport 34,5%
3-Assistance technique au Ministere de la Justice (MJ)
Le MJ a realise:
-un plan de formation de 80 magistrats avec une formation initiale a Alger et une formation
complementaire en Syrie , en Suisse et France. -une pre-etude pour ia mise en place d'une base de
donnees de jurisprudence fonciere (ebauche par un bureau d'etudes PROGOS et poursuivie par GTZ)
-I'acquisition d'une documentation fonciere
En accompagnement a la DFG ,le MJ a institue par arrete la mise en place de sections foncieres aupres
de tribunaux. Le MJ a en cours de projet ,beneficie de credits complementaires sur les fonds du pret
pour entreprendre d'autres actions similaires (formation de magistrats-complement de
documentation-informatisation-12 micros).
4-Assistance technique au Ministere de l'Agriculture (MA)
Le MA a engag6 une etude relative au foncier agricole destinee a identifier les elements techniques et
administratifs indispensables a la mise en place d'une politique fonciere agricole coherente et
globale.Cette etude a trait6 les aspects lies a:
-la fiscalit6 fonciere agricole-la steppe-les structures foncieres et d'exploitation-les aspects
institutionnels-la relation entre le foncier et l'am6nagement du territoire.
Les resultats de l'etude ont abouti a des propositions devant conduire a un plan d'action
dont le projet a fait l'objet d'un large debat et est actuellement en phase de finalisation.
- 19 -



5-Developpement institutionnel-Assistance technique a la DGDN et l'ANC pour la
preparation d'instructions techniques
Les services de consultants ont 6te requis pour la preparation d'une nouvelle instruction technique
commune a I'ANC et la CF.La nouvelle instruction pr6voit un nouveau dispositif d'enquete fonciere avec
des brigades mixtes cadastre-conservation fonciere-domaines15 guides pratiques ont et6 6galement
elabores.
6-D6veloppement de systemes d'informations foncieres (SIF)
La mise en oeuvre du sch6ma directeur informatique dans le cadre du projet a permis d'acqu6er et de
mettre en place les 6quipements et logiciels necessaires au traitement de la DFG,et par voie de
cons6quences de constituer progressivement une base de donnees foncieres (BD) sur les communes
cadastr6es.Un systeme a e  mis au point avec l'appui des experts de la GTZ et a abouti au
developpement d'un systeme d'informations g6ographiques (SIG) avec une option pour l'Oriente
Objet..L'operation a ete men6e avec le concours du ministere de l'agriculture pour une application sur les
potentialites agricoles des terres sur la base des informations cadastrales.Une extension de l'ouverture
est en cours avec la SONELGAZ pour les reseaux et la Direction Generale des Forets pour le patrimoine
forestier..
PARTIE C-LE PROLONGEMENT DU PROJET
La r6alisation du projet pr6vue initialement de 1993 a 1997 a 6te prolong6 jusqu'au 30 juin 1999 puis au
31 decembre 2000.Les raisons de ce prolongement sont justifiees d'une part par les difficultes
rencontrees ayant retarde I'aboutissement de certaines operations programmees, d'autre part par I'
identification et l'introduction de nouveaux objectifs lies a l'6volution du projet .Le bilan de la
consommation des fonds du pret a fait ressortir a chaque ech6ance ,un solde qui a fait l'objet d'une
restructuration en tenant compte des nouveaux objectifs:
-le renforcement des conservations foncieres en matiere de formation et d'archivage;
-la coordination ANC-CF
-le renforcement de la formation au profit de l'ANC et de la DGDN notamment pour le personnel d'
encadrement et des formateurs pour I'acquisition d'outils de management;
-une analyse plus fine des quotas de production ;- la mise en place d'une comptabilit6 analytique en
rapport avec la production cadastrale ; la mise en place d'un systeme de contr6le qualite de la production
cadastrale; la mise en place d'un reseau pour relier les divers systemes installees dans le cadre du projet
; l'introduction de nouvelles methodes de lever comme la planchette numerique;
-la remise a niveau de l'atelier de photogrammetrie ; renforcement de la composante MJ
la remise a niveau du 2eme avion F27 de l'INCT pour renforcer les moyens de prises de vues aeriennes
IV-LES AMELIORATIONS ET INNOVATIONS APPORTEES
Les ameliorations et innovations apportees parle projet se sont traduites par:
1-UNE AMELIORATION DU DISPOSITIF INSTITUTIONNEL
2-UNE MEILLEURE ORGANISATION
3-UNE AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION CADASTRALE ET DE -L'IMMATRICULATION FONCIERE
-intensification des operations cadastrales
-augmentation de la production cadastrale et de l'immatriculation fonciere par rapport a la periode
anterieure a 1992 (avant le projet):
communes/an :X3,
sections urbaines /an :X27,
superficie rurale cadastree /an :X2,
superficie urbaine cadastree/an :X31
unites foncieres/an :X7
immatriculation/an : X50
-meilleure planification des activites du cadastre general rural et urbain.
(fixation des quotas selon des criteres d6finis :moyens humains, materiels, couverture
- 20 -



orhos,restitutions,zone geographique,densite du parcellaire..)
-generalisation du cadastre urbain sur tout le territoire national
-introduction de la restitution numerique pour le cadastre urbain
-introduction du systeme GPS dans les m6thodes de leve
-amelioration de ia qualite de la documentation cadastrale
4-DE MEILLEURES CONDITIONS DE TRAVAIL SUR LE PLAN TECHNIQUE ET MATERIEL(services mieux
6quip6s en mat6riels)
5-DE MEILLEURES CONDITIONS DE TRAVAIL SUR LE PLAN DES COMPETENCES (agents mieux formes)
6-LA GENERALISATION DE L'OUTIL INFORMATIQUE
7-LA MISE EN PLACE D'OUTILS DE GESTION
8-L'OUVERTURE VERS LE MILIEU PROFESSIONNEL(SIG-conventions utilisateurs-groupe
interprofessionnel)
V-CE QUE LE PROJET N'A PAS PRIS EN COMPTE
-le financement de la maintenance vu le parc considerable de materieis acquis dans le cadre du projet;
-le financement du renouvellement de certains equipements et v6hicules notamment ceux acquis en
debut de projet (1994-1996) usages;
-le financement de l'extension de la formation au rezste du personnel d'encadrement (chefs de division
des ARC,chefs de bureaux des ALC);
-le financement d'une formation plus pouss6e en management et organisation (les formations r6alis6es
sont de courte duree et sont insuffisantes);
-le financement de ia formation de 1'ensemble des conservateurs fonciers (une cinquantaine seulement
ont suivi la formation sur 183);
-une formation plus poussee de l'ensemble des juges fonciers et son financement
-I'aboutissement A la disponibilit6 de donnees suffisantes pour le cadastre prioritaire de la SAU a travers
l'6tude MA (I'etude n'a pas ete utile pour le cadastre dans la mesure ou les zones prioritaires a cadastrer
ne ressortent pas);
-l'integration de la DGDN pour la maitrise du domaine national a cadastreravec des actions de formation
et de perfectionnement touchant la gestion du domaine public et prive de I'Etat;
-l'integration du MH pour cibler les priorites en zone urbaine
-le financement de la gen6ralisation du tout num6rique,celle-ci necessite des equipements,logiciels et
formations complementaires;
-le financement de la gen6ralisation du SIG,a partir de l'experimentation avec la GTZ.
VI-LES CONTRAINTES
Les principales contraintes rencontrees ayant perturbe le fonctionnement des services sont:
-la d6composition trop pouss6e des composantes du projet d'ou multiplication des operations
-le circuit bancaire complexe et long BAD/DEP-BAD/DFE-BEA-BA)
-le processus budgetaire complexe (AP-CP-CNP-MF/DGB/DMOB)
-la conjoncture defavorable-
la mise en ceuvre du plan de formation (immobilisation des brigades,d6placements frequents ayant une
incidence sur le programme de production)
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
|  j i  toriMatfx:   _  :: ;: |3 ;:: 0::   t:Projce In last PSRi ji: i:::   0  Actuallatest Estimate
Accumulated coverage of cadastral mapping 3 000 000 ha (estimates set by the orginal  2 900 000 ha
for rural areas.                      closing date)                          (96% achieved as compared to what was
7 150 000 ha (Assuming that the pace of   expected for the original project duration of
production established at the time of  four years; 40% as compared to the
appraisal is maintained until the current  projection made on the assumption that the
closing date.)                        pace of production at the time of appraisal is
maintained.)
Accumulated coverage of cadastral mapping 36 000 ha (estimates set by the original  52 000 ha
for urban areas.                      closing date)                          (144% achieved as compared to what was
92 000 ha (Assuming that the pace of  expected for the original project duration of
production established at the time of  four years; 56% as compared to the
appraisal is maintained until the current  projection made on the assumption that the
closing date.)                        pace of production at the time of appraisal is
maintained.
Increased productivity in cadastral mapping. 12 000 ha/team/year for rural areas, 23  3 381 ha/team/year for rural areas, 83
ha/team/year for urban areas          ha/team/year for urban areas
Increased number of parcels adjudicated for 3720 parcels as of 12/31/92     49,519 parcels
title registration per year.
Participation in the training programs for                                  Total of 2 340 participants joined the training
ANC, DGDN, other ministries and private                                      programs on technical and management
surveyors.                                                                  skills. All planned training programs planned
for the project have been completed except
the joint program between ANC and DGDN
aimed at strengthening the mixed teams.
Output Indicators:
lndtcatm#daXrIx                      rate in PIst PSR                     Actuoal/Latst Estimate
Production of nrral cadastre maps (hectares 12 000 ha (Estimates for the last year of the  355 224 ha
per year)                             original project closing date.)
Production of urban cadastre map (hectares 3300 ha ( Estimates for the last year of the   13 002 ha
per year)                             original project closing date.)
Total number of land tles issued      21 413 Utles as of 31/12/1992          136 427 titles
Total number of parcels acdudicated for title  63 253 parcels as of 31/12/1992  459 409 parcels
registration
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appratsal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
A. Cadastral mapping and Parcel Adjudication          65.30           34.80           90.1
B. Institutional Support to ANC                        5.80            2.70              8
C. Technical Assistance and Studies                    1.40            0.50            1.9
Total Baseline Cost                                   72.50           38.00
Physical Contingencies                                7.30           68.90             10
Price Contingencies                                  16.30           13.50           22.4
Total Project Costs              96.10          120.40
Total Financing Required              96.10          120.40
NB. US$68.9 million is the total amount of physical and price contingencies. The total appraisal estmate of
Bank financing adds up to US$96.10 million instead of US$96 million due to rounding. Physical
contingency mainly include recurrent costs and VATs of equipment purchased.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category    X Ic          ProcuremntB   Method'         N.S.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          15.10         0.00          0.00         15.10
(0.00)        (4.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.00)
2. Goods                     42.30          0.00          3.00          0.00         45.30
(24.40)       (0.00)        (2.00)        (0.00)       (26.40)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          4.80          0.00         4.80
Consultancy and Training     (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.60)        (0.00)       (2.60)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         30.80         30.80
Local expenditures           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
._____________  (0.00)    (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      42.30         15.10         7.80          30.80        96.00
(24.40)       (4.00)        (4.60)        (0.00)       (33.00)
Consulting Servies were procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Consulting services costing less
than US$10,000 were awarded on the basis of direct contracting.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodc
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          10.10        10.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)          0          (0.00)
2. Goods                     24.70                        0.00                      24.70
(24.70)                    (0.00)          0          (24.70)
3. Services                   3.20          0.00          0.00                      3.20
- 23 -



Consultancy and Training         (3.20)         (0.00)          (0.00)           0            (3.20)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00                          0.00           82.40          82.40
Local expenditures               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         27.90           0.00           0.00           92.50         120.40
(27.90)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (27.90)
t Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to: (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Category               Appraisal Estimate            Actal/Latest Estimate
I__________________    Bank    ,        t.     CoF       RBanko      Govt      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CF.
Civil Works               4.00       11.10                0.00       10.10     10.10     0.0    91.0
Eqiupment                 26.40      18.90                24.70      24.70               93.6   130.7
Technical Assistance      2.60       2.20                 3.20       3.20               123.1  145.5
Miscellaneous             0.00       30.80                0.00       82.40     82.40     0.0   267.5
The amount in the Govt. financing column is the counterpart funds. GTZ financed civil works and
miscellaneous (local expenditure). This is noted on the CoF column.
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/89                       4   1 Housing Specialist, 3 Cadastre
Specialists
06/90                        1   1 Housing Specialist
03/91                       2   1 Housing Specialist,
08/91                       3   1 Housing Specialist, 3 Cadastre
Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/91                       3   1 Housing Specialist,
3 Cadastre Specialists
2/92                        1   1 Housing Specialist
7/92                         1   1 Housing Specialist
10/92                       1   1 Housing Specialist
Supervision
05/95                        5   1 Housing Specialist, I              HS              HS
Financial Analyst, I Infra.
Tech. Specialist, 1
Disbursement officer, I
Procurement Advisor
07/94                        2   Housing Specialist, Financial        S               S
Analyst
11/94                        4   1 Municipal Engineer, I              S               S
Financial Analyst, I Training
Speicialist, 1 Management
Specialist
6/95                         4   1 Municipal Engineer, I              S               S
Training Specialistsultants, I
Financial Analyst, I
Management Specialist
11/95                        4   1 Municipal Engineer, 2              S               S
Training specialists
2/96                         3   1 Municipal Engineer,                S               S
Management Specialist, Training
Specialist
3/96                         3   1 Municipal Engineer, I              S               S
Management Specialist,
1 Training Specialist
11/96                        2   Municipal Engineer,                  S               S
Management Specialist
8/97                         1   Management Specialist                S               S
12/97                        3   1 Municipal Enginer, I               S               S
Management Specialist, I
Training Specialist
- 26 -



8/98                        1  Management Specialist                S               S
11/98                       2   Municipal Engineer,                 S               S
Management Specialist
2/99                        1  Management Specialist                S               S
Consultant
6/99                        2   Municipal Engineer,                 S               S
Management Specialist
9/99                        4   1 Municipal Engineer, 2             S               S
Training Specialists, I
Management Specialist
6/00                        2   1 Municipal Engineer, I             S               S
Management Specialist
10/00                       3   1 Municipal Engineer, I Urban       S               S
Planner, I Management
specialist
ICR
01/01                       1    I Urban Planner
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               33.3                       104.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                    32.3                        89.2
Supervision                             114.3                       455.4
ICR                                       5.0                        20.0
Total                                  185.27                       668.9
Note: The above table excludes $77,052 from Trust Funds.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Financial                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please speciy)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS Os *U OHU
[I Supervision                                       OHSOS   OU  OHU
M Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
X Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance             O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
z Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
E? Overall                                           OHS * S  O U   O HU
Government Implementation Performance to be rated as marginally satisfactory.
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 30 -



