Z-A. 3a/+ - d-e
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                                 Repwt No. 10346-AL
TEepcrt No. 10346-AL Type: (SAR)
LACOUR, V / X37335 / H4169/ EMEN1IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROJECT
MAY 21, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents way not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY BOUIVALENTS
(As of March 1992)
Currency Unit              =           Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1.00                    -               DA  22.50
DA 1.00                                    USS 0.044
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANC         Agence Nationale du Cadastre (National Cadastre Agency)
APC         Assembl6e Populaire Communale (Municipality)
BA          Banque d'Alg6rie (Central Bank)
OCEP        General Cadastre Establishment Program
CF          Conservation Fonciere (Land Registry Office)
CNTS        Centre National des Techniques Spatiales (National Center for Land
and Space Technology)
DAS         Domaine Agricole socialiste (State Farm)
DGDN        Direction G6n6rale du Domaine National (General Directorate of
Lands)
EAC         Exploitation Agricole Collective (Privatized Collective Farm)
EAI         Exploitation Agricole Individuelle (Privatized Individual Farm)
EPA         Etablissement Public Administratif (Autonomous Public Agency)
EPIC        Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial
(Commercially managed Public Agency)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GFCF        Gross Fixed Capital Formation
INC         Institut National de Cartographie (National Mapping Institute)
INF         Institut National des Finances (National Finance Institute)
ITTPB       Institut Technologique des Travaux Publics et du Batiment
(Institute of Technology for Public Works and Building
Construct ion)
LCM         Law on Money and Credit
LIS         Land Information System
MOH         Ministere de l'Habitat (Ministry of Housing)
MOA         Ministere de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MOE         Ministere de l'Economie (Ministry of the Economy)
MOJ         Minist&re de la Justice (Ministry of Justice)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
DEWMORTIC ADPOPJUL    REPUBLIC RE ALGEIA
CARDASTRZ PROJUt=
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan Su mary  .        . . . ......................................... . . .
I     MNTRODUCTION .                    . . . . . . .                       . . . . .   1
II* LAND RESOURCE US  AND REGISIRATION                              1. . . . . . . . 
A. Land and the Economic Reforms                                                   1
B. Land Use and Policies                                                           3
C. The 1975 General Cadastre Law and Its Implementation                            7
D. The Now Institutional and Procedural Setting                                   10
E. The Remaining Agenda                                                           15
III. THE PROJECT . . ...                                  o .. 15
A. Government Strategy                                                            15
B. Rationalo for Bank Involvement                                                 15
C. Project Objectives and Summary Description                                     16
D. Cadastral Mapping and Parcel Adjudication                                      16
S. Strengthening of the National Cadastre Agency                                  19
P. Technical Assistance, Training and studies                                     20
IV. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .....  .              .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .   . 22
A. The National Cadastre Agency                                                   22
B. Project Implementation Arrangements                                            23
C. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting                                          25
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..26
A. Project Costs                                                                  26
B. Project Financing                                                              28
C. Procurement                                                                    28
D. Disbursement                                                                   29
E. Cost Recovery                                                                  30
F. Accounts and Audits Requirements                                               30
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . ..               .    ..31
A. Benefits                                                                       31
B. Risks                                                                          32
C. Environmental Impact                                                           32
VII. AGREEMENS AND RECONNENDATION  ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
This report is based on the firdings of an appraisal mission which visited Algeria in Novesmer 1991. The
mission comprised of Messrs. Vincent Lacour tsenior Housing Specfatist), Mostafa EI-Erian (Lawyer); Nabil
Shehadeh (Principal Financial Analyst); Francis DOelbecque iConsultunt, Training Specialist); Jacques
Gastoldf (Consultant, Cadastre Specialist) and Bernard Samoullier (Consuttant, Mapping Specialist).
Charles Sterling (Operatfons Analyst) and Pierre-Etfewme Bouchsud (Consultant, Economist) assisted fn the
preparation of the report. Task Manager: Vincent Lecour (MMIIN); D.vfslon Chief: Amir AL-Khafaji (CNIIN);
Director: Pfater P. Bottelier (MI1); Peer Revfewer: Maurice Ass o CAFlAG).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of ContentE (cont'd)
ANNEXES  .       .  .   .  *  .  .  .  .  .  .  .              .    .*.  .*.  .*.  34
1. Cost Estimates and Financing                                         34
2. Technical Assistance, Training and Studies                           42
3. Cadastre Production costs                                            57
4. Performance Indicators and Annual Targets                            59
5. Supervision Schedule                                                 60
6. Project Implementation Timetable                                     61
7. Disbursement Schedule                                                62
8. Documents Available in the Project File                              63
FIGURES
1. Algerian Population and Space                                         3
2. Cadastre Establishment Procedures                                     8
3. Cadastre Maintenance Procedures                                      10
4. Institutions                                                         12
5. ANC Organization Chart                                               22
6. DGDN Organization Chart                                              24
TABLES
1. Pilot Zones                                                          18
2. Project Cost Summary                                                 26
3. Project Cost Summary by Category                                     27
4. Project Inflation (percent per yearl                                 27
5. Financing Plan (US$ Million)                                         28
6. Project Expenditure by Procurement Category                          29
Hap No. IBRD 23573



RENOAIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROTECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan Summarv
Borrower:               Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficijriest          Ministry of Economy: General Directorate of Lands,
National Cadastre Agency (ANC)
Amount:                  USS33 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 17 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Descripti2a:             By supporting       'plementation of the cadastre, the
project would help thc  0overnment of Algeria to create
a legal and institutional framework to ensure a
functional land market; to foster private investment
in agriculture, housing, and industry; and to lay the
foundation for a sound land-taxation policy. Project
objectives are to: (a) strengthen the institutions
that implement the cadastre; (b) support an increase
of annual land registration over four years; and (c)
develop cadaotre-based information systems for
taxation and other land-related uses.
The project would include three components:
(a) a four-year cadastral mapping program for 3
million ha of rural land and 36,000 ha of urban
land, during which mapping techniques would be
tested, and computerized land registration and
map production would be introduced;
(b) strengthening of the ANC; and
(c) provision of project-related technical
assistance, training, and studies.
Benefits:               The main benefits of the proposed project are a strong
contribution to private sector development through
greater individual security of land tenure and a new,
accurate cadastral map of Algeria's densely populated
usable land. The current lacic of these as well as a
properly functioning land market make project benefits
impossible to quantify at this time, but
implementation of the project is expected to provide
the basis for quantitative valuation in the future.



- Li -
Preliminary information suggests that, on average,
titled rural land is worth 60 percent more than
undocumented land.
Risks:                   The project's main risk is that the institutional
strengthening component may not be carried out at a
sufficiently rapid pace to enable ANC to use
efficiently its Lncreasing technical capacity to
implement the GCEP. This risk is minimized by making
the cadastre as simple as possible, setting it within
a strong institutional framework and defining
performance indicators and targets which will be
monitored through performance plans to be agreed upon
by the Government and ANC.



- iii -
nR3IOC3AY!C AND POPULA  REPUDIC OF ALG3RIA
OMas PROJECT
3stisated Costs and Financing Plan
Us$ Million
______________________
Local   Foreign  Total
______________________
ESTIMATED COSTS
A.  Cadastre map & parcel adjudication
1. Aerial photography                      2.6    7.1       9.7
2. Digital stereoplotting                  1.9    3.2        5.1
3. Ground survey                          23.3     8.9      32.2
4, Parcel adjudication                    10.6    1.S       12.1
5. Digital mapping                         1.4    2.6        4.0
6. Legal data base                         0.8     1.5       2.3
Subtotal                                      40.6    24.8      65.4
B. Institutional support to ANC
1. Training                                1.6    0.6        2.2
2. Organization strengthening              1.0    2.7        3.7
Subtotal                                       2.6    3.3        5.9
C. Technical assistance & studies
1. Studies for land administration         0.2     0.4       0.6
2. Land inwormation systems                0.3    0.5        0.8
Subtotal                                       0.5    0.9        1.4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          43.7    29.0      72.7
Physical Contingencies                      4.4    2.9        7.3
Price Contingencies                        13.4    2.6       16.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS1/                         61.5    34.5      96.0
FINANCING PLAN
Government                                 61.51/   1.5      63.0
IBRD                                        0.0    33.0      33.0
TOTAL                                      61.5    34.5      96.0
1/     Includes US$23.6 million of taxes and duties.



I.  INTRODVCTI
1.1         Although the most important breakthrough in private sector
development that Algeria has accomplished in its ongoing economic reform
concerns land ownership, its effectiveness is still hampered by the lack of a
land right- ' .ta base. Land ownership and transactions used to be highly
restricted   ;nsistent with the central planning that was used to manage the
economy. I parallel with the economic reforms, fundamental changes in land
law are takLag place.  Before the beqinning of the economic reform process,
which has been progressing since 1988, experiments in agricultural land
privatization were carried out as early as 1983. Between 1987 and 1989, most
public agricultural land had been assigned to privatized groups of farmers and
the municipal monopoly on urban land transactions removed. However the
Government of Algeria has yet to complement these sweeping changes by giving
titles to the new owners, thereby enabling them to carry out land
transactions, and by establishing a proper land-rights data base.
1.2         The proposed project is designed to set up a land-rights
documentation system (cadastre) that would enable smooth functioning of the
emerging land market and foster land-related private investment. This
cadastre would include a cadastral survey of urban and rural property
boundaries and a register of titles that together would make legal information
on land rights easily available and simplify conveyancing. Project objectives
are to strengthen the institutions in charge of cadastre implementation and
maintenance, to support the progressive increase in cadastre annual production
and maintenance within a four-year time slice -- 3 million ha of rural
land and 36,000 ha of urban land would be mapped and 1 million parcels
adjudicated -- as a contribution to the Government's program to complete the
cadastre in the northern part of the country within 15 years and to develop
cadastre-based information systems for taxation and other land-related uses.
1.3         The proposed project was identified in late 1989, and prepared by
a study carried out between October 1990 and June 1991 and by a series of
missions culminating in substantial streamlining of the legal and
institutional setting of the -adastre. It was appraised in November 1991.
II. LAND RESOURCE USE AND REGISTRATION
A. Land and the Economic Reforms
Economic Reforms
2.1         Land privatization, although still incomplete, has been the first,
as well as most dramatic, move Algeria has made toward creating a market
economy. However, before the private sector can benefit fully from the
ongoing reforms, a well-established land-registration (cadastre) system must
complete the land management framework. The reform program that the
Government is undertaking began in 1987 when it decided to dismantle the'state
farm sector, which represented 40 percent of agricultural output and to give
usufruct rights to about 27,000 private groups of farmers. In 1989, the
Government launched a second reform package to replace public enterprises'



- 2 -
centralized planning by a decentralized management structure. In 1990 the Law
on Money and Credit I (LMC) was issued; this law established the central bank
(Banoue d'Alafrie, BA) as an independent institution with responsibility for
setting monetary policy and overseeing the banking system.  The LMC
contributes to leveling the playing field between public and private
enterprises and provides the legal framework for a market-driven financial
sector. In the same year, the Land Policy Law was adopted, which provides for
privatization of urban land transactions. Although many components of the
legal framework for a land market are now in place, a full-fledged market
d aling with various types of rights such as ownership, lease, tenancy, and
mortgage cannot function yet becauLe of the lack of widely recognized evidence
of these rights.
Country Overview
2.2         Management of Algerian land has reached a critical stage for the
Algerian economy because of three main factors: (a) a rapidly growing
population; (b) heavy dependence on food imports; and (c) the modest share of
usable land in the national territory. Algeria has a population of 26
million, which has been increasing rapidly at 2.7 percent per year; the urban
population, which represents 40 percent of the population, is growing faster
at 5 percent per year. Housing and feeding this growing urban population are
among the most serious ^hallenges to the country's development.
2.3         Heavy reliance on food imports, compounded by the very narrow
range of export commodities, makes Algerian food policy vulnerable. Imports
represent a large part of national food consumption3' and are financed by
export income, of which crude oil and gas represent 96 percent. Gains in
agricultural production would have a positive impact on the current account.
2.4         Usable land is scarce in Algeria, for rural as well as for urban
needs, and competition between these two uses is intense. Although Algeria is
the second largest African country with 2.4 million km2, because of limited
rainfall, only 75,000 km2, or 3 percent of the territory, is suitable for
cultivation; 400,000 km2 are considered suitable for grazing, foxests, esparto
scrub, and shrubs. The Algerian population is also concentrated in a small
portion of the national territory; 80 percent live on less than 8 percent of
the territory (Figure 1) along the northern coastal strip. This area contains
almost all of the country's assets: deep soils, abundant rainfall and
irrigation potentialities, as well as communication infra- structure and large
markets. Although the Government has constantly tried to foster urban
settlements in the less fertile region of the high plains, this policy has had
little influence on the urbanization trend. Therefore, an important item of
the land management agenda is to promote an efficient use of urban land.
2/     Loi 90-10 relative A la monnaie et au cr6dit, April 14, 1990.
3/     Tie self-sufficiency rate is 25 percent for cereals and 40 percent for
milk.



-3
Figuro It Algerian Population and Space
Algerian Population
by decreasing density
10o%-         -.-..--.-.
90%         -     -     --                          
80                --
70%         -
60%
2 50%.
0.
30%--
20%--
10%--
0%         -   _            _ 
0%   10%   20%   30%   40%  50%   60%   70%   80%   90%  100%
area
S. Land Uns_ and Policies
Allocation of the scarce arable land is being rationalized
2.5         Most of Algeria's rural land is located most in the northern part
of the country. The 7.5 million ha of arable land can be broken down from
north to south into strips parallel to the coast; they consist of: (a)
550,000 ha (of which 220,000 ha is irrigated) in a hot climate with abundant
rainfall, on which citrus and early vegetables are intensively cultivated; (b)
5 million ha in plateau areas, where winters are cold, rainfall fluctuates
sharply, and cropping consists mainly of a wheat or barley and fallow
rotation; and (c) 2 million ha situated between the dry south and the desert,
and in the mountains, where cereal cropping is irregular.
2.6         Until 1987, when the state farms (Domaines Aoricoles Socialistes,
DAS) were dissolved, these relatively large-scale, capital-intensive farms
covered a large part of the more fertile land in the higher-rainfall areas.



-4-
When Alga&ia became independent in 1962, agricultural land belonging to French
settlers, which was generally located in the rich coastal strip, was
collectivized into large state farms averaging 1,000 ha in size. In 1971, in
a second step known as the Agrarian Revolution, the size of private property
was limited to about 80 ha per family and excess land was incorporated into
state farms. In 1987, the DAS numbered about 3,100, had an average size of
800 ha, and covered a total area of 2.5 million ha, or about one-third of
total arable land. Because the farms were in the more fertile area, however,
the propo.,rtion of their land left fallow was much small.er than in the private
sector, so that land cultivated by the DAS represented 40 percent of total
area cropped in any year. This sector contained about 60 percent of Algerian
production potential. It employed about 140,000 people as full-time DAS
workers anxd hired part-time workers totalin.; about 180,000 (full-time
equivalent).
2.7         Private farms, which cover two-thirds of the arable land and
account for 85 percent of the agriculture wo_k force, represent only 40
percent of the Algerian production potential. About 60 percent of the 850,000
private farms are on less than 3 ha, although it is likely that many farmers
operate more than one farm. This sector cultivates only about 60 percent of
the arable area it occupies because much of the land falls in marginal areas
and is left fallow. By contrast, in the livestock subsector, which plays an
increasingly important role in agricultural production, the private sector
dominates; about 95 percent of the animals are privately owned.
2.8         A major change occurred in 1987, when the Government passed a
law4/ providing for the division of DAS into autonomous groups of private
farmers. The breakup of the DAS involved the distribution of land and assets
to voluntary associations of no fewer than three farmers. About 22,000
cooperative farms (Exoloitation Acricole Collective, EAC) were established,
each occupying an average of 80 ha of cultivable land with 6-7 members. Small
parcels of land left over were allocated to individual farmers (Exploitation
Aaricole Individuelle, EAI)l 5,100 EAIs were also established, each with an
average size of about 6 ha.
2.9         The 87-19 law introduced private management in former state farms,
but it strongly limits the right of EAC and EAI members to dispose of their
land and prevents a formal land market from emerging. Because Government
officials believed that small-scale farming operations would be inefficient,
this law states that state farm land should generally be broken up into EACs
of at least 70-90 ha. EAC and EAI usufruct rights cannot be sold during the
first ten yf:.'re following their constitution, and their members cannot rent
their right. (these rights may be forfeited in case of land rental or use of
land for non-agricultural purposes). These are obstacles to optimizing land
use and to consolidating parcels. There is ample evidence that an illegal
land rental market is developing.
2.10        Although the initial breakup of the DAS was carried out in a
4/     Loi 87-19, December 8, 1987.



remarkably short time, some further adjustments were necessary and are still
taking place. This reform has been carried out in three steps. First, the
DAS were broken up and reassigned to cooperative and individual farms between
October 1987 and May 1988 on a first-come, first-served basis. Second,
between 1988 and 1991, 380,000 ha were given back to their owners from before
the 1971 expropriation; the unfair control of land allocation and claims
expressed by the farmers whose land had been nationalized in 1971-73 led to
major amendments to land allocatlon. Third, dissatisfaction among EAC and EAI
members led to an ongolng reallocation of plots. As a result, the number of
EAIs has more than doubled (currently 15,900); the average EAC membership has
decreaoed to 5.5, and thelr number has increased to 25,400.
2.11        At thLs last stage of the implementation of the 87-19 law, the
legal framework proved too rlgld and it was determined that: (a) most EACs
were unfeasible and should be broken up into individual farms; and (b) EAC and
EAI farmers should be given more leeway to reshape their farms. Cooperative
farms were often created without beneficiary willingness to share in
operations management. A growing number of farms ara being split into
individual farms, although the legal basis for these individual farms is
precarious. Experience gained ln other countries shows that individual farms
are more profitable than cooperative farms. Agricultural operations could
reach the optimal slze by buying or renting supplementary land, which the
legal framework does not yet allow SAC and EAI to do.
Municipal control of the use of urban land is relaxed to give more space to
market forces
2.12        A large share of urban areas lies either in the most productive
agricultural belts or in piedmont areas, unsuitable for construction for
geotectonic reasons. Some 80 percent of the population lives in the coastal
area, and three of the four major cities (Algiers, Oran, and Annaba) are
maritime ports. Urban land represents about 300,000 ha, and it is estimated
that urban population growth (5 percent per year) generates the need for an
additional 15,000 ha per year.
2.13        The Urban Land Reservation Law';, which the Government issued in
1974, established an urban perimeter for every city, prohibited building
construction outside thls perimeter, and entrusted the municipalities
(Assembl6es Populaires Communales, APCs) with providing suitable land for
urbanization. Provision of land suitable for urban growth and the
preservation of agricultural land were the objectives of this law. Within the
Urbanization Perimeter, state land was transferred to the APCs and private
undeveloped land could be sold only to APCo, which, in turn, were supposed to
provide land for public infrastructure and housing construction, as well as
for private individual housing construction.
2.14        Implementation of this law was unsuccessful and has resulted in
inefficient use of urban land and encroachment on agricultural land. APCs,
5/     Ordonnance sur les r6serves fonciares No. 74-26, February 20, 1974.



which had a monopoly on land supply, had insufficient expertise, management
capacity, and fundu to provide adequate land to meet needs stemming from urban
growth. APC used to allocate plots to construction projects during ad hoc
meetings, but conveyancing6/ was rarely carried out. Prices were fixed by
nationwide rules that did not represent the economic value of land and,
because the pricce were seldom paid, did not constitute an incentive for
efficient use of urban land. Because land-use control was more stringent in
the urban perimeter, the growing demand for urban land resulted in increased
encroachment on agricultural land outside this perimeter. By the end of 1989,
out of 564,000 plots that had been allocated to households for family house
construction, 170,000 were owned by households that did not plan to build in
the near future. Simultaneously, 300,000 illegal housing constructions had
been tallied in the agricultural land surrounding the main cities.
2.15        The Land iolicy Law7/, which the Government passed in 1990,
dissolves the Urban Land Reservation System and provides for free land
transactions. APCs have thus lost their monopoly on urban transactions and
prices are freely determined by the market. Land is still segmented into
urban and agricultural zones, however, and construction remains firmly
restricted in the agricultural zones. Zoning maps are to be prepared under
APC supervision, and APCs can monitor the evolution of the urban land market
by exercising their authority to preempt land. Land-management agencies
should be created to this effect.
The lack of legal titles is hampering the implementation of these new policies
2.16        The lack of legal titles in rural as well as urban areas prevents
the land market and private land-related investment from developing. Only 5
percent of private rural and urban owners have legal evidence of their
property rights. In the former DASs, only 5 percent of the government titles
(actes administratifs)8/, have been issued. However, there are already some
indications of improvement: 20 percent of government titles for EACs and EAIs
are currently beinj processed and, because composition of EAC/EAIs is
stabilizing, it is expected that title issuance will now be carried out at an
accelerated pace. In urban areas, most of the transactions carried out since
1974 were never translated into proper conveyancing. As a provisional
registration system, the Land Policy Law stipulates that APCs will have to
make a land inventory that will be progressively replaced by the legal
registration system to be provideG by the cadastre.
6/     Conveyancing is the procedure by which the transfer of property from
one person to another is performed.
7/     Loi d'Orientation Fonci6re No. 90-25, November 18, 1990.
8/     Government title, (acte administratif), is the particular title defined
by the 87-19 law as legal evidence of EAC/EAI beneficiaries, rights.



- 7 -
Land taxation is not conducive to the development of the land market
2.17        Although land ownership and use is virtually untaxed, taxes
related to land transactions are heavy and are an obstacle to proper
conveyancing and to the development of the land market. Taxation of
agricultural land was abolished in 1972, and schedules for urban land taxation
have not been updated since 1934; new constructions are exempt for 10 years;
moreover, urban land tax collection is poorly administered and generated an
annual income of about DA 300 million in 1988 (or .3 percent of budgetary
income). In contrast, land transactions are heavily taxed; transaction tax
rate is 16-20 percent of land value plus about 2 percent for recordation. The
1992 Annual Finance Law, which indicates changes in land taxation policy, has
yet to be complemented by practical measures.
C. The 1975 General Cadastre Law and Its Implementation
2.18        Land registration is not new to Algeria.  It has existed since
1863 but was limited to a small part of the national territory and has not
been maintained for the last 15 years. Before French colonization, individual
ownership was uncommon because land transactions were limited by religious
(habou or wakf land) or civil (arch or melk land) rules. Land registration
was introduced in 1863 by the French Government to enable settlers to obtain
land and protect their property. Based on the Torrens system, it did not
cover the whole territory, but concentrated on wealthy rural and urban
estates. In 1962, many French settlers vacated their properties, which were
either confiscated by the State or acquired by individuals. Although land
registration was not abolished, it became progressively outdated. Since 1971,
it has been further disrupted by nationalization resulting from the
implementation of the Agrarian Revolution and by the Urban Land Reservation
Law. Little attention had been given to conveyancing during the
nationalization process.
2.19        A comprehensive legal framework for land registration9/ was
defined in 1975 and 1976; it has been scarcely implemented so far but
constitutes a basis for a practical land-registration system (Figure 2). The
Government's objective was to establish a General Cadastre territory north of
the 34th parallel10/ in ten years. The General Cadastre, as defined by the
1975 General Cadastre Law, is based on the principles of the Torrens system.
It includes a cadastral map to be established by the cadastre services and a
land register to be established by the Land Registry Office (Conservation
9/     Ordonnance sur le Cadastre General et le Livre Foncier No. 75-74,
November 12, 1975 and D6crets 76-62 et 76-63 relatifs a l'6tablissement
du Cadastre G6n6ral et a l'institution du Livre Foncier, March 25,
1976.
10/     This portion of Algeria is the active part of the territory for land
management purposes; it represents about 110,000 km?.



Figure 2: Cadastre Fstablishaent Procedures
National Mapping Institut |  National Cadastre Agency  || adegisirZJ
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I lWra  Cdoto  L|
m       w~~~~d r'ed s. 1"I
0'..V .-..Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ p...a,.di,*
L:.I dtX
Base flap  .Ifts-
Fonciere, CF). The cadastral map describes the parcel boundaries. The
parcele of a section11l are numbered and listed on a cadastre register where
the names of the apparent owners12/ are indicated on the basis of the
results of the investigation carried out by a cadastral commission. This
commission is chaired by a local judge and includes local government
representatives and cadastre officers; it can settle minor disputes between
neighboring landowners. Once the cadastre investigation and survey are
completed in the whole commune, these documents are passed to CF, which
carries out its own investigation and delivers titles, which thereafter
11/    A section consists of the parcels that can be represented on the same
map; it ranges from 5 ha in dense urban areas (scale 1:500) to 500 ha
in rural areas (scale 1:5,000).
12/    An apparent owner is a person who appears to have a strong interest in
the parcel according to the initial evidence gathered during cadastre
investigation; the cadastre register does not constitute any evidence
of land rights.



- 9 -
constitute the legal evidence of land rights. These titles are recorded in
the land register. Accuracy of the land titles is guaranteed by the State.
Maintenance of the cadastral map, land titles, and land register are entrusted
to the cadastre services and to CF.
Lessons drawn from cadastre implomentation
2.20        The very modest implementation of the General Cadastre after 16
years' experience reveals that its design was too ambitious to be practical
and that the institutional setting was inadequate. In the territory targeted,
less than 5 percent of rural land and less than 1 percent of urban land have
been cadastred. In the communes cadastred, the cadastral map and the land
register have been improperly maintained. Project preparation has
demonstrated that cadastre implementation was constrained by lack of
institutional accountability, inadequate cadastre establishment procedures,
and unreliable conveyancing and cadastre maintenance. The institutional
setting was not adapted to the completion of cadastre establishment in a
reasonable period of time and did not ensure that this task would be completed
efficiently or with sufficient quality. The cadastre services have devoted
only 20 percent of their activity to cadastre establishment and have
accomplished various tasks, such as EAC subdivision surveys and public
equipment surveys, that could be carried out by private surveyors. The roles
of cadastre services and CF were partially duplicated (para. 2.21(b)), which
created inefficiency and diluted accountability. Experience gained in other
countries shows that unified leadership is critical for cadastre
establishment.
2.21        Cadastre establishment procedures were too complex, as well as
redundant, and did not take into account the existing diversity of land-right
justifications: (a) survey methods used in urban areas were too lengthy and
expensive, included extensive field measures, and aimed at an unnecessary
accuracy; (b) land rights were investigated twice, first by the cadastre
survey team and a second time by the CF titling team; and (c) although land
titles should ultimately replace any kind of land-right justification, titling
procedures have not been able to cover a significant portion of properties
because they have not recognized traditional land-right justifications in a
timely manner. Because conflicts about boundaries and ownership have been
relatively limited (less than 5 percent of cadastred communes), it would make
sense to streamline titling procedures for those parcels that are covered only
by traditional land-right justifications when the ownership is not questioned.



- 10 -
Figure 3: Cadastre Maintenave. Procedures
Seller/      nuotry        rveyor      ANC |CF
l ~__             _        SAIE      __ _lzzm
Saw$    M___ __ ___ ___ __titl
Ige eih ont  _  deposittIn in                          ti
Irrswry esrow
accounSi
been complex and have not guaranteed sufficient accuracy, and the
docWments (seven to nine) for each transaction have made the pocdueos
coaepcrd MaP estalis
D.  The New Institutional and Procedural Setti~~nd rl-o
2.22        Conveyancing and cadastre maintenance  procedures aFigure 3) have
been  complex and have not guaranteed sufficient accuracy,  and the
professionals that implemented these procedures have not been accountable.
For each transabtion, CF and the cadastre service have had to intervene at
different steps; the number of steps (five to nine) and the number of
document (seven to nine) for each transaction have made the procedure costly
and  the risk of crror very important.  Conveyancing professionals, such as
notaries and surveyors, have been few and inadequately skilled to be able to
implement conveyancing according to the land-registration system. The quality
of their performance should be improved by more effective accountability and
an increased participation in cadastre establishment.
D. The Now Institutional and Procedural Setting
2.23        Experienceo gained in cadastre implementation and an intense
dialogue between Algerian officials and the Bank during project preparation
have resulted in substantial modifications, intended to brLng about better
implementation organization and simpler and more efficient procedures.
Remaining issues concern the testing and fine tuning of these modifications



- 11 -
and laying the groundwork for their full implementation in a new General
Cadastre Establishment Program (GCEP) that aims to complete cadastral mapping
and parcel registration in the territory north of the 34th parallel within a
period of 15 years.
Institutions
2.24        The current institutional setting (Figure 4) under the auspices of
the General Directorate of Lands (Direction G4n6rale du Domaine National,
DGDN), within the Ministry of Economy (Minist6re de 1'Economie, MOE), gives
clear responsibilities to ANC for cadastre establishment and to CF for parcel
adjudicationl3l and land register maintenance. The National Mapping
Institute (Institut Natlonal de Cartoaravhie, INC) is the only Algerian aerial
survey producer. The institutional setting also includes the district courts
that settle disputes arising from the adjudication process and can be involved
in some adjudication, and the notaries and surveyors that implement the
conveyancing procedures.
2.25        DGDN supervises public land management and land registration.  It
includes a Directora.te for Cadastre and Land Title Registration and a
Directorate of Public Lands (Figure 6).  It is DGDN's responsibility to
prepare and mainta.n the legal framework for land registration and to
supervise cadastre establishment and maintenance.
2.26        ANC was recently made responsible for implementing the GCEP.  ANC
was created14' in 1989 out of the Directorate for Cadastre and Land Title
Registration to improve the efficiency of cadastre services.    ANC is an
autonomous executing agency (Etablissement Public Administratif, EPA) under
the auspices of DGDN and is financed from the State Budget. It has 48 local
branches at the wilavia5' level, which are locally responsible for cadastre
establishment, and five regional branches. Until recently, ANC's main mlssion
has been cadastral mapping using orthophotographic maps produced by INC and
its own field measures. In 1992, ANC was given full responsibility16/ for
the implementation of the GCEP, including the collection of data for parcel
adjudication. In the coming years, ANC will have to improve its legal
13/     Adjudication is the legal action by which the rights of a land holder
are recorded in the land register. once a parcel is adjudicated, the
land register, or aal extract (the title), constitutes evidence of
legal rights. Accuracy of the land register records is guaranteed by
the State.
34/     D6cret ex6cutif 89-234 portent creation de l'Agence Nationale du
Cadastre, December 19, 1989.
15/     Wilaya is the principal administrative subdivision of the Algerian
territory. There are 46 wilayas in Algeria.
16/     Decret executif 92-63, February 12, 1992 and Decret ex6cutif 92-134,
April 7, 1992.



- 12 -
expertise and remodel its management and organization to increase its
efficiency, accountability, and capacity to adapt to a rapidly changing
sicuation.
Figure 4: Institutions
Institutions
Ministry         Ministry    1    InWrI
hierarchical link         of Justice      of the Economy       of Defense
administrat ive
supervision    -  -  -
l           I
|Notaries|  Surv yorsl   | District     Land      National    National
(600)        C(200)      ourts (200)   Registry    Cadastre    Mappinq
(CF)   ~Agency     Institute
(ANC)       (INC)
Cadastre Establishment
Settlement of Parcel    Ground survey  Aerial
land-related adjudication cadastral maps survey
disputes
Preparation of
parcel adjudication
Maintenance of cadastral maps and land registers
Conveyancing  Ground survey  Settlement of         Maintenarnce of
for parcel    land-related           cadastral maps
boundary     disputes
modification
2.27        CF, which is in charge of parcel adjudication (para. 2.32), has
good legal expertise but is ill equipped to face the growing workload that
would result from the implementation of the GCEP. CF is part of DGDN
(Figure 6) and has local branches at wilava and district (daira) levels.
Currently, CF devotes most of its capacity to the maintenance of the deeds and
titles resulting from the former land-registration system. Within the GCEP,
CF will adjudicate parcels Based on data collected by ANC. To deal with the
new titles that the GCEP will produce to replace the former deeds and titles,
CF will have to increase its capacity and to improve its coordination with
ANC.



- 13 -
2.28        INC iu the only Algerian aerial survey producer and is entrusted
by the Government with the control of all aerial survey activities over
Algerian territory. However, it can contract out aerial photographing,
provided that an INC navigator is aboard and the photographs are processed at
INC's facilities. INC is a commercially managed public agency (EPIC) under
the Ministry of Defense.
2.29        Judges are part of the cadastral commissions and settle minor
disputes during cadastre investigation (para. 2.31), although parcel
adjudication is CF's responsibility. Courts are inadequately equipped to
address the growing number of suits involving land rights that will be filed
as a result of cadastre generalization. Creation of land sections in local
courts and training of judges in land matters is envisaged.
2.30        Notaries carry out conveyancing (para. 2.35), with the
participation of surveyors when boundaries are to be modified. The Government
privatized the notaries in 1990 but has yet to increase the number and improve
the skills of surveyors, and to a lesser extent, of the notaries. Notaries
used to be civil servants whose duties and responsibilities were meager
because of the low level of activity of the formal land market. Since 1990,
600 notaries have been admitted to open a notary office, and a Notary
Association has been created. Surveyors, who number 200, also have a
professional organization. The quality of their activity, however, is not yet
controlled. It is envisaged that a quality-control system would be
established to ensure the quality of title and cadastral map maintenance and
enable these private professionals to play a more important role in cadastre
implementation.
Legal investigation
2.31        Field investigation by ANC teams is generally well done, and the
participation of a judge makes it easy to solve minor legal issues arising
during investigation. The second investigation that CF used to carry out for
title issuance purposes added little value to the first. It was both
confusing and time-consuming for the citizens concerned. DGDN has decided to
strengthen the legal skills of ANC teams by the secondment of CF staff and to
gather all information needed for the cadastral map as well as for
adjudication in a single step.
Adjudication
2.32        Adjudication is straightforward for titled parcels but takes five
years for the untitled parcels, which represent more than 75 percent of the
total stock. New titles are issued directly against old titles when these are
still valid. There are relatively few valid titles owing to the paucity of
old titles and subsequent land-management reforms. In the remaining cases the
provisional adjudication system freezes all transactions for five years to
allow possible claims to be filed, which is detrimental to the development of
a private land market and is likely to increase the number of illegal
transactions. Moreover, experience shows that objections are filed only
during the last year of this period.



- 14 -
2.33        DGDN has agreed to simplify the provLsLonal adjudLcatLon system.
The flve-year perLod wlll be reduc3d to two years. Cadastral teams will
implement the exlstlng procedure by whlch anybody who can demonstrate a 15-
year peaceful occupation of an untitled parcel becomes owner of that parcel.
These eimpliflcatlons should shorten the overall period for cadastre
implementation. Draft decrees concernlng these simplificatlons were revlewed
during appraisal. It is estimated that ln rural araas 90 percent of titles
would be ellgible for absolute or provlslonal tltle lssuance. The remaining
propertles will be adjudLcated after a judLcLal declslon.
Maintenance and convoyancing
2.34        Malntenance procedures are reasonably well-implemented when
changes do not alter boundarles. However, thelr implementatlon during the
cadastre implementatLon phase is unclaar. Because cadastre implementation can
last up to four years in a single commune, this jeopardizes the reliability of
the new cadastre. DGDN has agreed to clarify the maintenance responsibilities
to improve maintenance in the case of boundary modifications. Moreover, the
92-134 executive decree allows ANC to promulgate the cadastre more
progressively so that each cadastre section can be completed in no more than a
year.
2.35        Although the new LnstLtutLonal settlng streamlines conveyancing
procedures, these procedures have, indeed, to be made consistent with the
development of the prlvate sector and approprlate financial instruments. The
most striking feature is that before any transaction can be conveyed, its
total amount has to be deposited with the Treasury and cannot be released
before the conveyancing is completed. As a result of this feature and of high
transaction tax rates, most transactions are carrled out without formal
conveyancing.
Systematic cadastre establishment and voluntary title issuance
2.36        In addltion to the systematic cadastre establishment program,
alternatives allow land-rlght holders to get legal evidence of their rights.
The systematic approach that was chosen by the Government is cost-effective
and has proven to be successful ln many countrles. During implementation,
however, it creates lnequities among holders of land rights. To mitigate
these inequities, the OCEP gives priority to areas where land markets will be
particularly active (suburban areas and highly productive rural areas).
Alternative approaches have also been designed to enable land holders to get
legal evidence when they need it to sell thelr land or lnvest ln it:
(a)   the notorlety deed, which was instituted by decree 83-352,
is a full ownership title and can be filed voluntarily with
CF;
(b)   all the legal deeds made before 1971 are legal evidence of
ownership; and



- 15 -
(c)   the Land Policy Law (90-25) institute. a possession
certificate (certifLcat de cossessLon) that is not a fully
transferable title but can be used to obtaln a buildLng
permlt or mortgage.
B. The Remaiing Aaenda
2.37        The Government has recently improved the lnstitutlonal setting and
procedures for the new cadastre and now ham a workable GCEP setup. GCEP
lmplementation will, however, reqiLre that: (a) the procedures be fine tuned;
(b) the framework for an effective land market be organized, partlcularly with
respect to the notarLes and surveyors; (c) lLnks between the Government and
ANC be established on a basis that would ensure long-term flnanclng and
efflciency LncentLves; (d) ANC organLzatLon and management be lmproved; (e)
ANC staff be tralned and surveyors be suffLcLently skllled for subcontracting
to be selected; and (f) the mapplng program be contlnued.
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Government Strateav
3.1         Land registratLon is a structural element ln the vast reform
program that the Government is undertaklng. The Government ls strongly
committed to having the new cadastre establlshed wlthin the next 15 years.
Land registration is a key element in the agrlcultural reforms, where it
conditlons the emergence of a land-market and a better allocation of land, and
in the urban land reforms, where lt is vlewed as a formal land market
development and monltorlng tool. It is a cornerstone of the flnancial sector
reform and a pre-condition of private investment. The Government has decided
to finance cadastre implementation from the State Budget and to recover only
maintenance costs from the users. Although land tax reform is currently under
way, it is not expected to use cadastre lnformatlon at the very beginning of
its implementatlon. Rather, land tax reform would be based on declarations
from land users and would use cadastre information only in a second stage when
the cadastre would have reached a crltlcal slze.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2         The project is a key part of the current econom.c- reform process
that the Bank supports, partlcularly for prlvate sector development. The
forthcomlng HousLng and Constructlon Sector Adjustment Loan (FY93), Economic
Reform Support Loan II (FY94), Local Government Development Project (FY95),
and Agrlculture Sector Adjustment Loan (FY95) are closely connected to land
reglstratlon. This project would also pave the way for further Bank support
to the development of flnancial lntermedlatlon. Finally, the cadastre would
become the basis for land-informatlon systems (LIS's) that could be used to
improve water resource and envlronment management. In addltion, Bank



- 16 -
experience in other countries provides a comparative advantage for ensuring a
well-designed approach to establishing a functional cadastre in Algeria.
C. Prolect Ob lctives and Summarv Descrigtion
3.3         By supporting the implementation of the cadastre, the project
would help the Government create a legal and instltutional framework that
would ensure the functioning of a land market and foster the development of
private investment in agriculture, housing, and industry. Project objectives
are to: (a) strengthen the institutions that implement ti.e cadastre; (b)
support the gradual increase of cadastre-related activities over a four-year
period; and (c) develop information systems based on cadastre for taxation and
other land-related uses.-
3.4         The project would include the following components:
(a)   a four-year program for the production of cadastral maps and
the adjudication of parcels for 3 million ha of rural land
and 36,000 ha of urban land in which urban mapping
techniques would be tested and computerization of parcel
registration and map production introduced;
(b)   strengthening of ANC; and
(c) provision of technical assistance, training, and studies.
D. Cadastral Mavpina and Parcel Adiudication
3.5         This component would support the cadastre's increase in production
capacity, and would improve the techniques for urban mapping, map drawing, and
land registration. Cadastral mapping methods for rural areas have proved
cost-effective, but their implementation is still too slow and would be
accelerated through improvement of equipment and training. In urban areas,
experience is too short to generalize any technique; various techniques would
be tested during the first year of the project. Some computer-aided design
would be introduced as a part of this component in order to increase the
efficiency of the draftsmen, simplify the maintenance of the maps, and prepare
for future use of cadastral maps as background for LIS's. For parcel
registration, the use of computerized data bases would be promoted to improve
the efficiency of the Land Registry and ease the access to the register.
3.6         The new institutional setting of cadastre (para. 2.33)
implementation is critical for the success of this component. ANC was
recently given full responsibility for cadastral mapping and for title
adjudication preparation.
3.7         Cadastre productive capacities would be increased over a four-year
period, during which 3 million ha of rural land and 36,000 ha of urban land



- 17 -
would be mapped, and 1 milllon parcels adjudLcated. The component includes:
(a) launching an aerial photography p:ogram and increasing the productive
capacity of INC; (b) surveying four pilot urban zones and developing
stereoplotting for urban cadastral mapping; (c) lncreaslng the productive
capaclty of ANC ground survey teams and CF offlces; and (d) promotlng the use
of computers for land registration and map drawing.
Launching an aerial photography program
3.8         INC would manage this aubcomponent wlth the exceptlon of
stereoplotting, which ANC would do.  Some 18,000 ha of urban areas would be
photographed at scale 1:2,000, 1:4,000 or 1:8,000 as well as 1.3 milllon ha of
rural areas at scale l:10,000 and 1:20,000. This program would be contracted
out by INC through ICB.
3.9         During the same period, INC would acqulre a new aircraft and
photographic equipment. This would enable it to implement the second part of
the aerlal photography program, which would include a small-scale survey for
rural areas (1,000,000 ha at scale 1:20,000) and a larger-scale survey for
urban areas (30,000 ha at scale 1:4,000).
3.10        The existing geodetic network ia satLsfactory in the northern part
of the terrltory and does not need to be densified in rural areas. In urban
areas, lt would be complemented by mlnor controls made by ANC teams and, ln
the southern cities, by SPS controls. Thls component would finance the
purchase by ANC of three GPS receivers. Stereo preparation would be carried
out by ANC teams.
3.11        Orthophotographic maps would be produced by INC for the rural part
of the program and for 60 percent of the urban part. The remaining 40 percent
of the urban part would be processed by stereoplotting done by ANC. This
component would finance the purchase of seven stereoplotters.
Surveying four pilot urban zones
3.12        Various mapping techniques would be tested in diverse urban areas
to define suitable techniques for contrasting types of urban fabric: dense
ancient town centers, single-famlly houslng neighborhoods, and emerging
suburbs at the border of the rural belt. Four sites have been defined:
Mostaganem (ancient town center), downtown Oran (modern urban fabric),
Birtouta ln the Algiers greenbelt, and El Oued (densely populated town in a
southern oasis).
3.13        The mapping techniques that would be tested are: (a) dlrect ground
survey at scale ls500 in dense zones; (b) stereoplottlng at scale 1:lO00 in
moderately dense zones; and (c) orthophotographic maps at scale 1:2000 in less
dense zones; in these zones stereoplotting would also be tested. Aerial
photographs would be contracted out by INC (para. 3.8), which would also
prepare the orthophotographic maps. Stereoplotting would be contracted out by
ANC, which would do stereo preparation, aerotrlangulation, and ground survey.



Table 1t Pilot zones
Pilot 5one           Parcel density       area       Mapping
unit/ha           (ha)      technique
--------------------------------------------------------------__----
Mostaganem (Tidjit)        100              S        ground survey
Oran                        1S             40        stereoplotting
Birtouta                     S           100         stereoplotting
orthophoto map
El Oued                     50            10         stereoplottlng
----------------------------------------------------------__-------
3.14       Parcel adjudLcation would be done by ANC and CF using regular
procedures. However, an outcome of the test would be to estimate the time
required for title delivery and to fine tune the procedure.
3.15       ANC would set up a monitoring system through which the time spent
to carry out the different tasks would be recorded. An assessment of the
tests would be carried out by ANC at the end of the mapping and at the end of
the adjudication of parcels.
Increasing the annual production of ANC and CF
3.16       To increase ANC and CF production capacity, 70 ANC survey teams
would be set up in 1992, and their number would increase progressively to 130
in 1995. Accordingly, CF would have to increase its staff by 400 in the same
period. Adequate equipment, office space, and vehicles would be provided for
this additional staff.
3.17       Additional cadastral mapping teams would come from redeploying 30
ANC survey teams that are currently involved in survey activities unrelated to
the cadastre. An additional 30 teams would be recruited. To make room for
these new teams and to improve the current inadequate working conditions of
survey teams, 18,000 m2 of floor space would be built for the 36 local ANC
offices of the northern wilayate. Ground survey equipment and vehicles would
also be purchased. At the same time, productivity would be increased by
improving the management of ANC through the institution-strengthening
component (para. 3.23) and by the introduction of digital mapping.
3.18       For parcel adjudication, the project would provide for the
equipment needed by the additional staff. Computerization of the land
register would also increase CF's productivity.
Promoting tho use of computers for land registration and map drawing
3.19        It is expected that the use of computers would increase the
productivity of cadastral mapping and parcel adjudication and simplify the
maintenance. A master plan would be defined to transform the land register
into a computerized data base and to digitize the cadaetral maps. A further
step would be to transform these two instruments into a single LIS. This last
step is not part of the project.



- 19 -
3.20        Although ANC has been using computer-aided design for severl.-
years, it has not kept up to date with recent development of computer
tochnology and software, nor has lt integrated use of computers into an
analysis of the information flows.  The project would lnclude a study to
prepare a master plan for ANC computerization. The purpose of thls study is
to analyze the flows of information and thelr recent evolution, to define a
computerLzatLon strategy for map production as well as for parcel
regLitratLon, and to inltlate the first part of thls strategy. Terms of
reference (Annex 2) and implementation arrangements were agreed upon durlng
negotiatlons.
3.21        The land regiater is currently kept on paper.  Thls system is
burdensome, ill protected, and difflcult 'zo consult and to maintain.  The
generalization of parcel adjudLcatLon wou?.d render it unmanageable.
Experlence gained ln several countrLes shows that computerizatlon of the land
reglster is possLble and could dramatlcally lmprove access and malntenance.
Furthermore, lt would enable ANC and CF to update the reglster and the maps
simultaneously. The project would flnance the design of the data base along
wLth the equlpment (microcomputers) and software.
3.22        Dlgltal mapping would be used to prepare cadastral maps.  Elght
graphlc 386-type work statlons have already been financed through the
Technlcal Assistance Project (Loan 3176-AL). Once the computerLzatLon master
plan is drawn, all the local agencles would be progressLvely equipped and
thelr draftsmen tralned accordlngly.
S. Strenathenina of the National Cadastre Agency
3.23        As noted earller, ANC, as a young instLtutLon, must adapt lts
organlzatlon and work practlces to be able to discharge lts responsLbilltLes
in implementLng the GCEP in an efficlent and effective manner (paras. 2.26 and
4.1). Thli component consLsts of technlcal assistance and studLes to improve
ANC organlzation and management and to deslgn and implement a trainlng
program.
Improvement of ANC's organizational structure
3.24        ANC is faclng the difficult task of buLldlng a more business-
oriented institutLon as well as deflnlng the basLs of its relatLonshLp wlth
lts tutelage agency, DGDN. Consultants would be needed to assist ANC in
carrying out a study on oraanizatLon and manaoement. ThLs assLstance,
totalllng about 12 staff-months, would be carried out over a slx-month perlod,
startLng as early as October 1992. The study would asslst ANC ln lntroduclng
effectlve organization, management, and lnformatlon systems wlthln the
framework of the DGDN/ANC lnterface. It would addreses (a) ANC's
organlzational structure at both headquarters and the regLonal and local
branches; (b) development of management systems, lncludlng, ln partlcular, a
cost-accounting system; (c) development of a management lnformatlon and
performance monltorlng system; and (d) preparatlon of proposals for a DGDN/ANC



- 20 -
performance plan. The study would also investigate the feasibility of
improving ANC'o revenue base as a means to establishing ANC's eventual self-
financing of investments. Terms of reference (Annex 2) and implementation
arrangements were agreed upon during negotiations. Recruitment of consultants
to carry out the study, in accordance with Bank guidelines, will be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Training program
3.25        The current system does not provide for the specific skills
required by ANC. The objectives of the training program are, thus, to train
existing and new ANC staff in specific cadastre skills and to set up a self-
sustaining training system. Cadastre engineers and surveyors are currently
educated in the National Center for Land and Space Technology (CNTS) and
Institute of Technology for Public Works and Building Construction (ITTPB).
Draftsmen are trained in the vocational training centers. The project would:
(a) finance the preparation of training material to be used by the existing
institutions to train ANC staff; (b) implement an accelerated training program
adapted to ANC's growing needs; and (c) help ANC develop specific training
curricula. Terms of reference (Annex 2) and implementation arrangements were
agreed upon during negotiations. Recruitment of consultants to carry out the
study, in accordance with Bank guidelines, will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
P. Technical Assistance. Trainina and Studies
3.26        Many institutions other than ANC and CF would have to deal with
the new cadastre and must prepare for this new setting. The district courts
would have to settle a growing number of disputes arising from the parcel-
adjudication process. The notaries and surveyors would be involved in their
conveyancing activities. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), whose role has
been deeply transformed by the reform of state farms, would have to develop a
new rural land policy. Moreover, for various purposes such as land tax
administration and natural resource management, the cadastral maps would be
the background for developing LIS's.
3.27        The proposed project would provide: (a) technical assistance and
training to the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) in land-related matters; (b)
technical assistance to DGDN for the issuance of guidelines and comments for
ANC and CF officers, and for the preparation of agreement procedures for
notaries and surveyors to improve conveyancing quality and speed; (c)
technical assistance and studies to the MOA to help it formulate a new rural
land policy; and (d) technical assistance to ANC to develop LIS's.
Technical assistance to the Ministry of Justice
3.28        The 169 district courts and 31 appeal courts already devote a
large part of their civil activity to land-related matters. Although disputes
will arise from parcel adjudication, it is the assessment of MOJ that



- 21 -
clarification of rights through parcel adjudication would decrease the number
of disputes over time. However, a survey completed in March 1992 by MOJ
indicates that land-related disputes increase significantly in communes where
parcel adjudication is being carried out. To deal with the new workload, 30
new courts will be created. The project would finance the training of
trainers, the setting up of a land law library, and a study to design a land
law data-base.
Technical assistance to DODN
3.29        Although the regulatory framework was improved during project
preparation, the implementation of the new legal texts requires that
guidelines be issued and that their implementation be monitored. This
concerns operational guidelines for CF and ANC officers, as well as agreement
procedures for surveyors and notaries. The project would support technical
assistance to prepare guidelines and agreement procedures.
Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture
3.30        The HOA is facing an entirely new setting in agricultural land
management. The proposed project would finance studies to define the future
land policy. These studies would: (a) define the principles of land
ownership and the rights of exchange; (b) set limitations on the use of
agricultural land and the authority of the Government to monitor, intervene
in, and control the use of land; (c) examine whether land consolidation is
necessary and establish the legal and institutional framework for such
consolidation; and, if appropriate, (d) define minimum viable holdings under
different situations (e.g., irrigated, non-irrigated, integrated farming).
Development of land information systems
3.31        The project would help various institutions and ministries to
prepare LIS's based on cadastral maps and data. These would be useful for
water resource management and for environment monitoring. Cadastre design
will allow for the use of the cadastral maps and files as a basis for setting
up LIS's, which would incorporate data coming from other sources, such as
census, surveys, and satellite photography. A research team in CNTS is
already working on this subject. This subcomponent would include the design
of LIS's; it would be implemented by the CNTS team under ANC and with the
guidance of an LIS user group that would include representatives of the
agencies concerned.



- 22 -
IVo ORGAIZAZTON AND IZRLBTNZAON
A. The National Cadastre Agengv
Figure 5' ANC Organisation Chart
Director of the National Cadastri Ag.ncij
Deputu Director      IVpuat  Director   |Dpul  Director  D|tOuity Otrector
Spec Ial         CadestrGl General                         Personnel and
Asssgnmnis*       Surveying                Servicer,ss k 
"lbozng 4nd      Rural C dastral     _  Prtntxng           Personnel
Divsston~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ivso
National    ~~Urban Cadastral       Mlaterkal Mlanagemeni  rinance and
_    Land    _    Surveuing  |      _   and Maintenrance   Accounting
03vtslon           Olvisson  I              Division        ODlvs on
coputing                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training and
Techrkology                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Libraryd
D3vtsson                                     O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ivision
Regional Office  Regional Office  Regional Ofic  Regional Offi ce    Re Ioa  Office
N"t    Center          E~~~~~~~ast  South-uest     South-east
(Oran)    ~~(Algiers)    (Constantine)   CBechar)       (Ouargla)
I~~~~~~~~Ovso I
Wtla""     W~~~ilayja     Uilatja         Wilaya         iiayj
Offices (w1)   Office         Offices (13)    Offices (5)    Of e I    s  lcs
4ol         In 1989, AMC warn established by an executive decree17'/ on
December 19, 1989, as part of comprehensive measures for cadastre
establishment and, in 1992, was made18/ the sole agency responsible for
implementing the cadastre program (para. 2.26). It is a semi-autonomous,
administrative entity operating under the aegis of MOE, from whose Department
of Cadastre and Land TItle Registration Lt was created.  ANC has a Board
chaired by the DLrector General of DoDN, representing the MOE, and seven
members representing the pubILc interest. The Board proposes and monitors
ANC's operating policies and decides on all matters referred to it by MOE.
General policies such as staffing regulations, plans, and annual budgets are
approved by MOE and the Civll ServLce Administration (Direction Generale de la
Fonction Publiaue), as applicable.
4.2         ANC is administered by a Director appointed by a decree.  The
Director acts as chief executive and se responsible for implementing the Board
decileons and ANCts day-to-day operations. He is assisted by four deputies
responsible, respectively, for cadastral mapping, special assignments, general
services, and personnel and finance (Figure 5). ANC is headquartered in
17/    Dbcret exDcutif No 89-234, December 19, 1989.
18/  Dscrets exncutifg   92-63, February 12, 1992 and 92-134, April 7, 1992.



- 23 -
Algiers and has five regional offices, each covering a number of wilavate,
where ANC is represented by a total of 48 local offices. At present, ANC's
total staff is about 1,775, excluding temporary laborers. The core technical
staff, mostly topographers and draftsmen with scant legal background, is about
1,150, while managerial and administrative staff amount to 140 and 485,
respectively.
4.3         ANC's finances are managed in accordance with public accounting
regulations and are well structured, albeit with some deficiencies arising
from over-centralization and staff shortages (para. 4.4 below). The recurrent
budget is proposed by the Board and approved as part of MOE's national budget.
The capital budget is defined by the Planning Commission (CNP) and approved
within the Government's investment budget. Both budgets are financed by
general revenues, except for minor fees for special services to third parties.
The Director of ANC is in charge of expenses under both the recurrent and
capital budgets. The Director is assisted by a public accountant from MOE's
Treasury Department. Expenditures and accounting are currently centralized at
headquarters, and managers at both regional and local offices have no
authority over these functions, ANC's 1992 recurrent budget amounts to DA 253
million (USS 11.2 million), of which about 94 percent represents personnel
cost. ANC's proposed 1992 capital budget is about DA 182 million (US$ 8.1
million).
4.4         Since the start of its operations in 1990, ANC is adapting itself
gradually to the imperatives of it. mandate. The project includes support for
ANC's institutional development (para. 3.23). Meanwhile, ANC is taking
measures aimed at decentralizing operations and delegating broader operational
authority to its regional and local offices, expanding the Board membership by
including representatives of private sector professional institutions, and
strengthening ANC's financial management and staffing. ANC status was'
modified in February 1992 to decentralize its financial management. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, ANC Headquarters and local offices' financial management would
be strengthened by recruiting 12 administrative accountants.
B. Project Imolementation Arranwements
4.5         Because the project aims at developing implementation capacities
to carry out the GCEP, implementation 4rrangements will be made with a view to
GCEP implementation. They will concern: (a) the Government's commitment to
finance the GCEPI (b) project management; and (c) project execution.
4.6         Aareement was reached during negotiations that: (a) a four-year
ANC performance plan and (b) annual GCEP implementation budgets would be
prepared. A draft four-year ANC performance plan prepared by ANC and was
reviewed durlng negotiations. It includes commitments of both the Government
to finance GCEP implementation and ANC to carry out this program and to
increase its productivity. It was agreed that this four-year program, once
approved by the Government, would be submitted to the Bank as a condition of
loan effectiveness. Annual CCEP implementation budgets would be prepared by
the Government and ANC, reviewed by the Bank, and would be subsequently
implemented taking into consideration the Bank's comments. Moreover, a first
annual GCEP implementation budget will be prepared by the Government and
approved by the Bank as a cgodition of loan effectiveness.



- 24 -
Figure 6: DODN Organization Chart
minisler of shEon  
r    oKity Mrls,-S*  of Budget
l  Genral OIC or*ato of Lands l
03rectorate,                               Otrectorat   l
of Land fbqlstration an                    of  Dersonne l Mnag~t
Public Law   _a  lean                        an  Traair.Nz
R.gtonal lnspectoe'at
Sub-dir ctor s                    of Land Registration
_    of Public Land Mnagewn
and Litigalion  Land .gistrtt ion   Algiers
Anniaba
Sub-directorate                 _      fJechar
_  of Lan  Registralion   Cdsrl1^pr
and Cao stral Mapping  _   Offic   _     Bejaia
81 ida
Sub-directoratt_                   constanitne
_  of AfDraisal and Seal  sotatl
Oran
duargila
Sub-directors t_D Rolizan
_   of Stott Lad land
6"ral Studios
Nait onal Cadastre ACi
4.7        ANC would execute the project, except for aerial photography, for
which INC is responsible, and the technical assistance component, for which
DGDN, MOJ, and MOA would be responsible. The Director of ANC would be both
the GCEP and project Director, under the supervision of the ANC Board chaired
by the Director General of DGDN.
4.8        The Director of ANC has appointed a GCEP implementation team
comprising a Program Manager who would deal with general supervision and
routine execution of the project and is assisted by an accountant and a
training manager.
4.9        ANC's organization and management would be made more efficient
during the project period. The strengthening of the training and financial
management functions that are currently taking place would be coupled with
further decentralization and the setting up of a management information system
as a result of the management study (para. 3.24) and as a part of the ANC/DGDN
performance plan. The use of computers will reach the local offices, and the
Information Technology Department would be strengthened and would substitute
its productive role for an advisory one.
4.10       A total of 400 new staff (16 percent of the present staff
complement), including about 300 staff for ground survey and 100 for parcel
adjudication, would be recruited under the project. Because of the uncertain
skills of the new staff, a total of 2,000 staff-weeks of training sessions
would be implemented for them. It is expected that about 160 staff would also
be supplied from the special assignment survey teams.



- 25 -
4.11        The aerial photography airplane that would be procured in the
project would be owned by INC, under the Defense Ministry (Air Force Command).
agreement was reached during negotiations that INC would have exclusive access
to this airplane and would use it only for the purposes of the project. ANC
would be charged the regular rate for aerial photography taken by INC.
C. Monitorina. Evaluation. and Reportina
4.12        Progress toward meeting project objectives would be monitored
through regular supervision missions that would be undertaken twice annually.
Supervision would be aided by ANC documentation of implementation progress in
its semi-annual reports to the Bank. ANC would develop a management
information system, including targeted annual performance objectives and
monitoring indicators, as part of the institutional support to ANC (para.
3.23). A tentative list of performance indicators and annual targets is
attached in Annex 4. Aareement was reached during negotiations that ANC would
submit annual project progress reports to the Bank starting FY93; these
reports would contain full updates of monitoring indicators. The Program
Manager (para. 4.8) would be responsible for coordinating the reporting
requirements; a suitable format and timing for the reports would be agreed
during the first supervision mission. Not later than six months after the
loan's closing date, ANC would prepare a project completion report.



- 26 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Costs
5.1             The total project  cost,  including physical  contingencies  and
expected price increases, is estimated at US$96.0 million, of which
US$34.5 million would be in foreign exchange.
Table 2: Project Cost Su mary
Project Cost Summary
DA Million            US$ Million                      X Total
...................   ............-.------.-   X   Foreign    Base
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign  Total     Exchange      Costs
.....................   ....................   . ............ ................... .............................................
A.  Cadastre Napping & Parcel
Adjudication
1. aerial photography         59.1   158.6   217.7      2.6     7.1    9.7         72.9      13.3
2. digital stereoplotting     42.6    73.0   11S.5      1.9     3.2    5.1         63.2       7.1
3. ground survey             523.9   199.2   723.1    23.3      8.9   32.1         27.5      44.3
4. parcel adjudication       238.1    34.6   272.7    10.6      1.5   12.1         12.7      16.7
5. digital mapping            30.8    59.3    90.1      1.4     2.6    4.0         65.9       5.5
6. legal data base            17.0    33.0    50.0      0.8     1.5    2.2         66.0       3.1
.....................    ...................     .   ............. ................ ............................
Subtotal                         911.4   557.7  1469.2    40.5    24.8  65.3           38.0      90.1
B. Institutional Support
to AMC
1. training                    36.3    12.9    49.2      1.6     0.6    2.2         26.3       3.0
2. organization
strengthening               21.5    59.7   81.2       1.0     2.7    3.6         73.5       5.0
,.. .................    ..... ......... .....   .... ..........-
Subtotal                          57.8    72.7  130.4       2.6     3.2    5.8         55.7       8.0
C. Technical Assistance
and Studies
1. studies for land
administration              3.2     9.6    12.8    0.1       0.4    0.6         75.0       0.8
2. land information systems    7.5    11.3    18.9      0.3     0.5    0.8         60.0       1.2
..............  ............... . ................ ...................  ...................................
Subtotal                          10.8   20.9    31.7       0.5     0.9    1.4         66.1       1.9
.................... ....... ................... ...........  ...............................  .............
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS             979.9  651.3  1631.3   43.6   28.9  72.5              39.9    100.0
Physical Contingencies         98.0   65.1   163.1       4.4     2.9    7.3         39.9      10.0
Price Contingencies           307.0   59.0  366.0    13.6        2.6   16.3          16.1     22.4
...... .......................  .......... .. .....................  .............
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             1384.9   775.5  2160.4   61.6   34.5   96.0            35.9    132.4
NB.. Subtotas.ma not. adad    .. d-                    . to..-d.  ac
...................................................................................................
NB. Subtotals may not add up due to rounding.



- 27 -
Table 3: Project Cost Sumary by Category
Summary Accounts by Cateaorv
DA iLlifon              USS Miltfon               VTotal
. ........ .  ...........  ..-- xForeign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Locat Foreign Total  Exchange Costs
Building construction,          190.1    88.1   278.2   8.4   3.9   12.3            31.7  17.0
furniture & small equipment
Technical equipment, vehicles    199.7   377.3    577.0   8.8  16.8   25.6          65.6  35.3
& aerial photography
other development costs         565.0   110.5   675.5  25.1    4.9   30.0           16.3  41.4
Consultancy & training           25.2    75.4   100.6   1.2   3.4    4.6            73.9   6.3
.......................  ...................   .   ............... ............... ...........................
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS            980.0   651.3  1,631.3  43.5  29.0   72.5           40.0  100.0
Physical Contingencies        98.0    65.1   163.1   4.4   2.9    7.3            39.7  10.1
Price Contingencies          307.0    59.0   366.0  13.6   2.6   16.2            16.0  22.3
, ................................. ..............  .................... ........  ...........
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           1,384.9   m7.5 2,160.4  61.6  34.5    96.0            35.9  132.4
*~~~~~~               n--.--X-  ............  . .-l....----------.-. ..  --  --s--s- Bz
................................................................................................
NB. Subtotals may not add up due to rounding.
5.2             Project costs are summarized in Table 2 and Table 3, and further
details are provided in Annex 1. Project costs include only costs defined as
capital expenditures in economic terms, including those costs involved in
creating an asset in the form of a new legal cadastre, which is expected to
produce a stream of benefits over a number of years. Project costs do not
include the coats of maintaining the cadastre, and therefore do not include
current expenditures. Project costs that are labeled "recurrent" are so
categorized only in the financial, but not in the economic sense. '7nit price
estimates for vehicles, equipment, material, and civil works for building are
based on appraisal mission fina ngs and on ANC estimates. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to all cost items. Baseline
costs are as of the November 1991 appraisal. Price contingencies amount to 20
percent of total base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming the rates of
price increase shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Projected inflatLon (percent per annum)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Domestic            24.0    15.0    8.0          7.0        7.0       7.0
ForeLgn               3.0      4.0    4.0        4.0        4.0       4.0
Taxes of about US$ 23.6 million (24.6 percent) are included in project costs.



- 28 -
B. Proisct Financing
5.3         The project would be financed as followss (a) a proposed Bank loan
of US$33.0 million would finance aerial photography, mapping, computer,
vehicles, and field survey equipment (US$22.6 million); aerial photography
(US$1.3 million) in excess of the US$5 million INC program, which would be
financed by the Government; technical assistance and training (US$2.6
million); civil works, furniture, small equipment, and materials
(US$4.0 million); and (b) the Government would finance US$63.0 million
equivalent (54 percent of project costs net of taxes plus US$23.6 million in
taxes). The proposed Bank loan would finance 46 percent of project financing
requirements, net of taxes. The loan would include 95 percent of the foreign
exchange requirements (US$34.5 million). Project financing arrangements are
summarized in Table 5 and detailed in Annex 1.
Table St Financing Plan (US$ Millior,
-------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Government      IBRD   Total
Building construction                       11.0          4.0    15.1
Technical equipment,                        18.9         26.4    45.3
vehicles and aerial photography
Consultancy and training                     2.2          2.6     4.8
Local expenditures                          30.8          0.0    30.8
Total                                       63.0         33.0    96.0
C. Procurement
5.4         Aerial photography in excess of the INC program, estimated to cost
US$1.3 million, and aerial photography equipment and airplane, estimated to
cost US$8 million, would be procured through ICB. Computer equipment,
vehicles, and mapping and field survey equipment, estimated to cost
US$31 million, would also be procured thrcugh ICB procedures when bid packages
exceed US$300,000. Initial procurement of computer equipment would be
financed under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3176-AL). About 20
packages with an average value of US$2.1 million would be procured through
ICB. A margin of preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers.
5.5         Civil works, furniture, small equipment, and materials would be
awarded through LCB up to an aggregate Bank financed amount of US$4.0 million
and through ICB otherwise. About 36 civil works packages with an average
value of US$400,000 would be awarded. Although Algerian LCB procedures are
generally acceptable to the Bank, some aspects are inconsistent with Bank
policy and could be improved to ensure better competition. During
negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that procurement under
the project would be carried out following procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 29 -
5.6           Technical assistance, studies, and training estimated to cost
USS4.8 million would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for the
procurement of consulting services. Consulting services costing less than
US$10,000 would be awarded on the basis of direct contract.
5.7           Smaller bid packages, costing no more than US$300,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 3.0 million, would be awarded through international
shopping on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three
different countries, eligible under the guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Other development costs amounting to
US$32 million include such items as office rent, salaries, wages and related
costs, and miscellaneous expenditures, for which procurement is inapplicable.
All bid packages estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more for civil
works, and US$200,000 equivalent or more for vehicles, equipment, goods and
supplies, would be subject to prior review by the Bank, as would final award
of contracts in these categories. Prior review by the Bank would cover about
70 percent of total contract values. Project expenditure by procurement
category is shown in Table 6.
Table 6t Project Expenditure by Procurement Category
. .................. ........................................ ............. .................................. ..........
Total
Category of Expenditure            ICe   LCB   Other           Not Bank-     including
Financed     contingencies
e.............................................................................. .. .......... ................. ..................
Building construction,              0.0   16.0   0.0            0.0           16.0
small equipment and material                                   (4.0)
(4.0)
Technical equipment,               42.3           3.0'          0.0           45.3
vehicles and aerial             (24.4)         (2.0)                       (26.4)
photography
Consultancy and training            0.0   0.0    4.8            0.0            4.8
(2.6)                        (2.6)
Local expenditures                  0.0    0.0    0.0          30.8'          30.8
(0.0)          (0.0)
Total                              42.3   16.0   7.8           30.8           96.0
(24.4)  (4.0)  (4.6)         (0.0)         (33.0)
....................................................................... .. ....................... .................................
Figures in parenthesis represent Bank financing
a/    International shopping.
b/    Services should be procured in accordancQ with Bank guidelines.
c/    Includes office rent, salaries, wages and related costs, and other local expenditures.
D. Disbursement
5.8          The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against eligible
expenditures to cover:
(a)   100 percent of foreign expenditures for aerial photography
in excess of the INC program, aerial photography aircraft
and equipment, computer and field survey equipment, and
vehicles;
(b)   80 percent of total expenditures for furniture, small
equipment, and materials;



- 30 -
(0)   100 percent of total expendLtures for technical assistance,
studLes, and tralning; and
(d)   30 percent of total expenditures for clvll works.
5.9         Disbursements ln respect of ICB expendltures would amount to about
US$24.4 millilon equivalent. DLibursement agalnst contracts costlng less than
US$200,000 would be made on the basLs of Statement of Expendltures (SOEs),
wlth related supporting documents retalned by the LmplementLng agency for
periodic review by the Bank. The project would be completed by December 31,
1996, and loan closing would be December 31, 1997. An estlmated schedule of
dlsbursements is given in Annex 6.
5.10        SPeclal Account.  To facilltate timely project lmplementation, the
Government would establish, malntaln, and operate, under terms and condltlons
satlsfactory to the Bank, a Speclal Account ln US dollars wlth Banaue
d'Aladrie (BA) to which the World Bank would make an lnitlal deposit,
equivalent to about US$2 milllon, representlng approxlmately four months of
projected Bank-flnanced expendltures. The Bank would replenlsh the Speclal
Account as requested, upon receipt of satisfactory evldence that expendltures
made from it were eligible for financing out of the fund. A replenishment
request would normally be sent to the Bank when 50% of the revolvlng fund has
been disbursed, i.e., about every three months not to exceed slx months.
Recovery of the initial deposit would begin six months before the closing date
or when the total withdrawn amount of the remainlng Loan funds that are
expected to be dlsbursed by Loan closure has fallen to US$4 million. Any
ineligible payments made out of the Special Account would be reimbursed
promptly to the account or, if the Bank so requests, refunded to the Bank.
Any amount outstanding in the Special Account at Loan closure not required to
cover further payments for ellglble expenditures would be refunded to the
Bank.
E. Cost Recoverv
5.11        Although the initial cost of creating the cadastre and the parcel
register will be financed by the Government as a part of its economic reform
process, the cost of maLntenance of titles and maps wlll be covered by fees
pald by the beneflciaries.  ANC's tariffs would be reviewed as a part of the
management study and included in the ANC/DGDN performance plans.
F. Accounts and Audits Reauirements
5.12        ANC would maintain separate accounts covering all financial
transactions related to project activitles, and would prepare annual
statements of receipts and expenditures based on these accounts. The project
accountant (para. 4.8) would be responsible for maintaining project accounts
including internal arrangements appropriate for disbursement by the Bank
against SOEs. Independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank would verify
these accounts along with the Special Account annually. By November 30, 1992,
the Government would submit to the Bank a timed-bound action plan indicating
how it would meet its audit requirements under the project. ANC would furnish
to the Bank certified copies of the project's audited financlal statements and
the auditor's report, including an opinion on the expenditures claimed under
SOEs and on the Special Account, within six months after thef end of each
fiscal year.



- 31 -
VI.  PROJECT JSUSTIPICATION AND RINKS
A.  D.OfU&S
6.1         The main project benefits derive from greater individual security
of land tenure and a new cadastral map. Limited availability of data on land
values, resulting from the virtual absence of a land market, makes it
impossible to quantify benefits at this time. However, the progressively
emerging land market may provide the basis for quantification in the future.
A description of likely benefits follows.
6.2         Security of tenure is a crucial pre-condition for development.  It
prevides the framework for productive investment and land development by land
holders. With secure tenure, farmers will be more likely to plan and invest
on a long-term basis. They will also be more likely to invest in on-farm
facilities, perennial crops, and soil improvement and less likely to exhaust
the soils for quick profits. All landholders receiving clear titles under the
project, especially those in urban areas, will likely be motivated to invest
in adequate housing and commercial development. The project may even
encourage the mobilization of savings among low-income groups, which could not
be mobilized in any other way.
6.3         The landholder's access to institutional credit will similarly
improve. Currently, only those property owners with full-title deeds can use
their lands as collateral for credit from commercial banks. Those with
lesser-value deeds and those without documentation are limited to informal
credit and consequently more expensive borrowing terms. Improved access to
credit should, in turn, enhance landholders, motivation to invest in the
activities discussed above.
6.4         The project would reduce the incidence of land disputes by
providing security and clear delineation of tenure, especially in lands that
are currently undocumented. At present, the MOJ assesses at 80 percent the
share of land-related disputes in civil cases. The adjudication of parcels by
CF officials is a straightforward and open process in which a judge helps to
settle disputes. This process is rarely challenged at the time or
subsequently. The reduction of court cases and legal expenses over time would
result in savings for the Government and the private sector.
6.5         The project would also increase government efficiency by
eliminating duplication of cadastral surveys by various agencies. Ready
reference to   complete cadastre would reduce delays in land acquisition and
in obtaining easements (servitude) for utilities, transport, and other
government and private projects. It would eliminate the expensive and time-
consuming process of determining on ad hoc basis the boundaries and ownership
of land needed for important investment activities.
6.6         Cadastral information for planning and regulatory purposes would
likewise be improved under the project. The completed cadastre can provide
the basis of a record system for regulation of land use, building
construction, land consolidation, pollution sources, and other col.trols
applicable to individual parcels of land. By providing a consistent data base
for all government offices, it would facilitate inter-agency cooperation.



- 32 -
6.7         Moreover, the project would help provide an improved basis for
landed-property taxation. Through the use of cadastre data, the ongoing land
tax reform would be implemented on a consistent, professional basis. This
would limit de facto inequities among taxpayers arising from omissions and
distortions in property tax rolls.
6.8         A conservative assumption is that the increase in land values
generated by parcel titling would be in the order of magnitude of more than
ten times the cost of such titling. The direct costs of cadastral mapping and
providing full title are estimated at 0.4 percent to 3.6 percent of the value
of untitled land. Although it is not yet possible to estimate how much more
valuable titled land would be, experience gained in other countries suggests
that the increase would average 60 percent of the value of undocumented land.
Project sustainability
6.9         Although the Government would bear initial costs for cadastre
setup, ANC operations would be increasingly financed by fees paid by cadastre
users. This evolution would be monitored through the performance program that
would be prepared before negotiations. In addition strengthening the
institutions concerned will contribute to sustain the cadastre establishment
and maintenance process.
B. Risks
6.10        The project's main risk is that the institutional strengthening
component may not be carried out at a sufficient pace to enable ANC to use
efficiently its increasing technical capacity to implement the GCEP. This
risk is minimized by making the cadastre as simple as possible, setting it
within a strong institutional framework and defining performance indicators
and targets which will be monitored through performance plans to be agreed
upon by the Government and ANC.
C. Environmental Irnact
6.11        While the overall environmental impact of the project is expected
to be positive, measures have been provided to avoid possible environmental
risk such as inappropriate titling and use of wetlands and protected areas.
The project would strengthen the Government's land use information system, and
foster cooperation between ANC, the Land Registry office and other
institutions and ministries concerned. To this effect, the design of a LIS
has been included under component C of the project, and technical assistance
in the use of LIS is provided to these agencies involving their close
cooperation and their participation in an LIS user group. The project is
classified under Category B.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1         The following principal agreements were reached during
negotiationst
(a) Annual GCEP implementation budgets to be prepared by the
Government and ANC for review by the Bank, and to be



- 33 -
subsequently lmplemented taking lnto consideration the
Bank's comments thereon (para. 4.6);
(b)   The terms of reference of the organization and management
study (para. 3.24), the training program study (para. 3.25),
and the computerization master plan (para. 3.20)t
(c)   The appointment of a project implementation team within ANC
to include a program manager, a project accountant, and a
training manager, and such positions to be maLntained until
the end of the project implementation perLod (para. 4.8);
(d)   The terms of reference of the technical assistance to MOJ
(para. 3.28) and MOA (para. 3.30);
(e)   Procedures for LCB under the project (para. 5.4);
(f)   Modalities concerning the use of SOEs and the Special
Account (para. 5.8);
(g)   maintenance of separate ANC records and accounts covering
all financial transactions related to project activlties,
and submission to the Bank of annual audited statements of
receipts and expenditures based on these accounts not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para.
5.10);
(h)   ANC to submit to the Bank, starting in FY 93, annual project
progress reports with full updates of monitoring indicators
(para. 4.12);
(i)   ANC to submit certified copies of the project's audited
financial statements and the auditor's report, including an
opinion on the expenditures claimed under Statements of
Expenditure to be furnished by ANC to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
(j)         The Government submit to the Bank a time-bound action plan
indicating how it would meet its audit requirements under
the project By November 30, 1992 (para. 5.10).
7.2         Conditions of loan effectiveness are the following: (a)
governmental approval of a four-year ANC performance plan satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.6(a)); (b) governmental approval of the first annual budget for
the implementation of the GCEP (para. 4.6); (c) recruitment of consultants to
carry out the management study and the tralning program study in accordance to
Bank guidelines (para. 3.24 and para. 3.25); and (d) recruitment of 12 public
accountants by ANC (para. 4.4).
7.3         With the above agreements, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$33 million to the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Table 1 of 8
1.  Cost-Zxtimatges And4  inancin
Democratic and Popular Repubifc of Algeria
Cadastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Project Cost Sumuarv
DA Ntllion            USS Nitlion                     X Total
.............   ................----.------ - X Foreign        Base
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign  Total     Exchange    Costs
.......... ........................ ................   ..................... .... ......    ..................
A. Cadastre mapping & parcel
Adjudication
1. aerial photography         59.1   153.6   217.7      2.6     7.1    9.7         72.9     13.3
2. digital stereoplotting     42.6    73.0   115.5      1.9     3.2    5.1         63.2      7.1
3. ground survey             523.9   199.2   723.1    23.3      8.9   32.1         27.5     44.3
4. parcel adjudication       238.1    34.6   272.7    10.6      1.5   12.1         12.7      16.7
5. digital mapping            30.8    59.3    90.1      1.4     2.6    4.0         65.9      5.5
6. legal database             17.0   33.0    50.0       0.8     1.5    2.2         66.0      3.1
................. ....... . ................... .. .. ..... ......... .  .................... ........ .
Subtotal                         911.4   557.7  1469.2    40.5    24.8   65.3          38.0      90.1
B.  Institutional Support
to ANC
1. training                   36.3   12.9   49.2        1.6     0.6    2.2         26.3      3.0
2. organization
strengthening              21.5    59.7   81.2       1.0     2.7    3.6         73.5      5.0
............ ............ ... .... ........... .    ............ . .........
Subtotal                          57.8    72.7   130.4      2.6     3.2    5.8         55.7      8.0
C. Technical Assistance
and studies
1. studies for land
administration              3.2     9.6    12.8      0.1     0.4    0.6         75.0      0.8
2. land information systems    7.5    11.3    18.9      0.3     0.5    0.8         60.0       1.2
...... .......... ..... ................ ..............................  .............
Subtotal                          10.8    20.9    31.7      0.5     0.9    1.4         66.1       1.9
.....................~~~~~~~~ .......................
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS             979.9   651.3  1631.3    43.6    28.9   72.5          39.9    100.0
Physical Contingencies         98.0   65.1   163.1       4.4     2.9    7.3         39.9      10.0
Price Contingencies           307.0    59.0   366.0    13.6      2.6   16.3         16.1     22.4
. ........ . ..  ..       . .........................  ............
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             1384.9  775.5  2160.4    61.6    34.5   96.0           35.9    132.4
*=n--W--------IC -- a,   unmua *-=--e#-s--             *------sa
NB..Su.totals.mar.not.d... d.e...to rundin..  ..3gu U. U3..       3U3UZU.U.U           UUUUUUUUZUUU
NB. Subtotals may not add up due to roundinig.



- 35 -
Annex 1
Table 2 of 8
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Codastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Summarv Accounts by Categor=
DA fillion                  US$ Million                  XTotal
-   ----.. .   XForeign   Base
Local  Foreign    Total  Local Foreign  Total   Exchange  Costs
~~~~~~~...... ......................  ....................   .................
Building construction,               190.1      88.1    278.2    8.4    3.9    12.3             31.7   17.0
furniture & small equipent
Technical equipment, vehicles    199.7    377.3    577.0    8.8   16.8    25.6                  65.6   35.3
& aerial photography
Other development costs              565.0    110.5    675.5   25.1    4.9    30.0              16.3   41.4
Consultancy & training                25.2      75.4    100.6    1.2    3.4         4.6         73.9    6.3
........ .............................   ....... ............ .   .. .. ... ...... . ...
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 980.0    651.3  1.631.3   43.5   29.0    72.5              40.0  100.0
Physical Contingencies             98.0      65.1    163.1    4.4    2.9         7.3        39.7   10.1
Price Contingencies              307.0       59.0    366.0   13.6    2.6    16.2             16.0   22.3
..i;   ....................    ............  .......       .........  ............. ..................... ..........
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                1, 384.9    775.5  2,160.4   61.6   34.5    96.0             35.9  132.4
_................. .................._......... ..   . .  .       . u.._
NB. Subtotals my not add up due to rounding.



- 36 -
Annex I
Table 3 of 8
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cadastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Financina Plan by Disbursement Cateaorv
CUSS million)
Bank Loan        Government           Total                    Local
.................. -.--.     For.    (Exct.   Duties
Amount      X     Amount      X      Amount      X       Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. Equipment                          22.6    58.8       15.9    41.2      38.5    40.1       22.6       6.2       9.7
B. Furniture & smtll equip.            2.5    58.0        1.8    42.0       4.3      4.5       2.5       0.7       1.1
C. Civil works                         4.0    26.5       11.1    73.5      15.1    15.8        4.0       7.8       3.3
D. Local expenditure                   0.0      0.0      32.3   100.0      32.3    33.6        1.5      22.7       8.1
E. Tec. Assist., train. & studies   2.5    75.0           0.8    25.0       3.3      3.4       2.5       0.0       0.8
F. Aerial photography                  1.3    53.2        1.2    46.8       2.5      2.6       1.3       0.6       0.6
..................;;......................................................
Total Disbursement                     33.0    34.3       63.0    65.7      96.0   100.0       34.5      38.0    23.6
___-u-----------asauauuuau.uau:uuuzuuuuuuuuuu--.uuummu
............................................................................................................
NB. Subtotats may riot add up due to rounding.



- 37 -
Annex 1
Table 4 of 8
Democratic and Popular RepubLic of Algeria
Cadastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Proiect Comonents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                     Totals Including Contingencies
DA milLion                                           USS militon
.......................................           ....................................................................................
1992/93 193/94 1994/95 1995/96   Total            1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96   Total
uu      muuu....uU.a.u...... ........... uuuuuuiuaunu.uu3m.............................  .... g .B := =
A. Cad. map & parcel adjudic.
1. aerial photography                    9.4     15.5   135.1    114.6   274.6              0.4       0.7      6.0       5.1     12.2
2. digital stereopletting               31.5     37.0    42.9    30.1    141.5              1.4       1.6      1.9       1.3      6.3
3. ground survey                       209.7   233.8   290.3   236.8   970.7                9.3      10.4     12.9      10.5     43.1
4. parcel adjudication                  33.4      73.7   111.1    178.4   396.6             1.5       3.3      4.9       7.9     17.6
S. digital mapping                       1.5     27.4      54.5     28.6   112.0            0.1       1.2      2.4       1.3      5.0
6. Legal database                        0.0    22.3       28.4      11.0    61.6           0.0       1.0      1.3       0.5      2.7
.................. ...........................................................  ....................................
Subtotal                                   285.6   409.7   662.3   599.5  1957.0                12.7     18.2      29.4     26.6    87.0
S. Instit. support to ANC
1. training                              3.7     15.4    39.3       10.0    68.3            0.2       0.7      1.7       0.4      3.0
2. organiz. strengthening               23.3    24.7    26.1        22.3    96.4            1.0       1.1      1.2       1.0      4.3
..................... .................................. . ........................ ....................................
Subtotal                                     27.0    40.1       65.4    32.3   164.7             1.2       1.8      2.9       1.4      7.3
C. Tech. assist. & studies
1. studies for land administ             1.8      5.6       7.8      0.0      15.1          0.1      0.2       0.3       0.0      0.7
2. land information systems              3.2       8.6      5.5       6.1     23.5          0.1       0.4      0.2       0.3      1.0
.........................................................................
Subtotal                                      5.0     14.2      13.3      6.1     38.6           0.2      0.6       0.6      0.3       1.7
.... .................................  ....................................
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        317.6   464.0   741.0   637.8  2160.4                14.1     20.6    32.9       28.3    96.0
BS t-------m--------ay-- notada-d----d-u--t-or
......................... ...........................................................................
NS. Subtotals may not add up due to rounding.



- 38 -
Annex 1
Table 5 of
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cadastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
(DA million)
Sumnarv Accounts be Year
Base Costs                            Foreign Exchange
...................................................................................................  ............
1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96     Total         X    Amount
. INVESTMENT COSTS
..................
A.  Building construction            54.4       77.6      78.4      44.6    255.1         30.0   76.5
B. Technical equipment               61.4       79.2     136.7      60.2    337.5         65.7   221.8
Aerial photo aircraft             0.0        0.0      49.5      24.7      74.2        90.9   67.5
Aerial photography                2.9        3.8       5.7       0.0      12.3        74.5     9.2
Orthophotomaps                    2.7        3.6       7.2      18.0      31.5        50.0    15.8
Office furniture                  6.1       6.0        4.4       6.7      23.3        50.0    11.6
Consultancy                      20.8      32.1       24.7      18.3      95.9        75.0    71.9
Training                          1.3        1.3       1.3       0.7       4.7        75.0     3.5
Vehicles                         52.0      26.0       29.5      13.9     121.3        51.9   63.0
.............................................         .................................................................
OTAL INVESTMENT COSTS              201.7    229.7    337.4        187.1    955.9         56.6  540.9
3. RECURRENT COSTS
..................
Salaries                          46.7      82.6     119.8     149.2    398.4           0.0     0.0
Sal.rel. cost                     6.5       9.4       12.6      13.4      41.9         0.0      0.0
Travel                            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0
Office space                      5.4       13.2      21.0      25.5      65.2         0.0      0.0
M4ap material                     0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0
Other materiat                    3.1        7.9      15.8      17.2      44.0        65.0   28.6
Equipment ope. & maint.          12.0       23.1      41.8      49.1     125.9        65.0    81.9
Miscellaneous operat. cost        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0
, ..........................................................................  ............
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                73.7    136.2    211.1        254.4    675.4          16.4   110.5
................... -...............;;..........
Total BASELINE COSTS                275.4    365.9    548.5    441.5    1631.3            39.9  651.3
Physicat Contingencies            27.5       36.6      54.8      44.2    163.1         39.9   65.1
Price ContIngencies               14.7       61.5     137.7    152.1    366.0           16.1   59.0
........................ ......    .......... ........................ . ...............................   . ........ i..
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 317.6    464.0    741.0        637.8    2160.4        35.9  775.5
Taxes                             87.3      117.7     173.1    152.1      530.2         0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                 132.7      165.7    284.4    192.7   M7.5            100.0  m7.5
............................... ......................................................................
NB. Subtotats may not add up dOue to roundfng.



and                 of
Cadastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Summarv Account by Proiect Comaonent
(DA million)
law
aerial   digital              parcel                                 organiz.  studies  inform-
photo-    stereo-    ground  adJudica-  digital  legal    train-   strength-  for tand ation
graphy    plotting   survey  tion        mapping database  ing       ening      acninist  system
I. INVESTNWT COSTS
....................
A. building construction               1.5       2.5    181.4      61.0       0.0       0.0       8.7       0.0       0.0       0.0
B. technical equip.ent               78.4      79.2      57.0       0.0      57.1      28.9      15.3      11.2       0.0      10.5
C. aerial photo aircraft             74.2        0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
0. aerial photography                 12.3       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
E. orthophotomaps                    31.5       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
F. office furniture                   0.1       0.3       5.8      16.7       0.0       0.0       0.4       0.0       0.0       0.0
G. consultancy                        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       4.8       0.0       8.4      66.6      12.8       3.2
H. training                           0.0       4.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
I. vehicles                           1.7       0.0    116.9        0.0       0.0       0.0       2.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
....... ............ .................................................................................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               199.7     86.8    361.2       77.7      61.9      28.9      35.3      77.9      12.8      13.7
11. RECORRENT COSTS
. .................. 
A. salaries                            1.5       6.5    206.9    169.3        2.9       0.9       7.8       0.0       0.0       2.6
B. sal.rel. cost                      0.0       0.0      41.9        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
C. travel                             0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
0. office space                        0.2       0.7     48.6       13.5      0.0       0.0       2.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
E. map material                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
F. other mterial                      0.1       0.0       9.1       8.5      13.4      13.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
G. equipmant oper. & mainten.         16.2     21.6      55.4       3.8      11.9       7.2       3.9       3.4       0.0       2.6
H. miscellaneous operat.cost          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                 18.0     28.8    361.9    195.1        28.2      21.1      13.9       3.4       0.0       5.2
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                217.7    115.5    723.1    272.7         90.1      50.0      49.2      81.2      12.8      18.9
Physical Contingencies             21.8       11.6     72.3      27.3       9.0       5.0       4.9       8.1       1.3       1.9
Price Contingencies                35.1       14.4    175.3      96.6      12.8       6.7      14.2       7.0       1.0       2.7
..........................  ................................................................................................................................
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 274.6    141.5    970.7    396.6    112.0          61.6      68.3      96.4      15.1      23.5
Taxes                              44.3      34.6    259.6       96.7      27.5      15.1      18.9      24.0       3.8       5.8
Foreign Exchange                  193.0      86.1    233.3       41.5      71.4      39.4      15.4      70.6      11.4      13.4
NB. Subtotals may not add up due to rounding.
3rP
0 
O 3



- 40 -
Annex I
Table 7 of 8
Demoratic ad Popular Republic of Algeris
Cadastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Financirm Plan by Proiet CooMonents
(US$ million)
ank Loan         Government         Total                    Local
................................................    Foreign   (Exel. Duties
AMount    X      Amount    X      Amount    X        Exch.    Taxes) & Tax.
_ .....................UUUUUUUUU-Uf.U.mUUU.UUUUUUgU_uuuuu.uuuuuu
A. Aerial photography               8.6    70.3       3.6    29.7    12.2    12.7       8.6       1.7      2.0
B. Digital stereoplotting           3.8   60.9        2.5   39.1       6.3     6.6      3.8       0.9      1.5
C. Ground survey                    10.4   24.0    32.8   76.0    43.1    44.9         10.4      21.2     11.5
0. Parcel adjudieation               1.8   10.5    15.8   89.5        17.6   18.4        1.8     11.5      4.3
E. Digital Mppine                   3.2   63.8        1.8   36.2       5.0     5.2      3.2       0.6      1.2
F. Legal database                   1.8   64.0        1.0   36.0       2.7     2.9      1.8      0.3       0.7
G. Training                         0.7   22.5        2.4    77.5      3.0    3.2       0.7       1.5      0.8
H. Organiz.str.ngthening             1.6   38.4       2.6    61.6      4.3     4.5      3.1       0.1      1.1
1. Studies for land                 0.5    75.0      0.2   25.0        0.7     0.7      0.5      0.0       0.2
J. Land informtion system           0.6    57.0       0.4   43.0       1.0     1.1      0.6       0.2      0.3
,.. ......i;................................................................
Total Disbursement                 33.0    34.3    63.0    65.7    96.0   100.0        34.5      38.0     23.6
NB. Subtotals my not add up da to rounding.



- 41 -
Annex1
Table 8 of 8
Democratic and Popular Repbitic of Algeria
Cadastre Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Financina Plan by DOsbursement Cateaorv
(USS million)
Bank Loan        Government         Total                   Local
...     ............       ........ ..... ..-.---- - ----------Foreign   (Excl.  Dutfes
AmOUnt     X     Amw.nt     X     Amount     X      Exch.     Taxes)  & Tax.
mmvu.uuu.uaaaauuaauaauimumnauauau uuuuausa.uumuuu
A. Equipment                       22.6    58.8      15.9    41.2    38.5    40.1      22.6      6.2       9.7
S. Furniture & swtll equip.         2.5    58.0       1.8   42.0       4.3     4.5      2.5      0.7       1.1
C. Civil works                      4.0    26.5      11.1   73.5      15.1    15.8      4.0      7.8       3.3
D. Local expenditure                0.0     0.0      32.3  100.0    32.3   33.6         1.5      22.7      8.1
E. Tec. assist., train. & studies   2.5    75.0       0.8   25.0       3.3     3.4      2.5      0.0       0.8
F. Aerial Photography               1.3   53.2        1.2   46.8       2.5     2.6      1.3      0.6       0.6
Total Disbursement                 33.0    34.3      63.0   65 7      96.0   100.0    34.5      38.0      23.6
-   -- _        _~~~~~-------- ---         - -      _     _a"a
uauuuuuuuuuuuuuuia................................auuua..........................
NB. Stbtotals *y not add up duae to road Ing.



- 42 -
Anngx 2
Page 1 of 15
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
2. Technical Assistance. Training and Studies
Technical Assistance
1.          Consultants will be required to assist ANC with the increase in
its production, D6DN, MOA and MOJ with the implementation of the new land
registration framework, and the design of land information systems. This
assistance, totalling about 8 staff-years, will include 8 staff-years of long-
term input and 4 staff-years of short-term input, broken down as follows:
Technical Assistance                         Staff-months
Procurement                                      6
Issuance of Technical Guidelines for ANC
and CF officers                                  4
Pilot zone test follow up                        2
Computerization master plan follow up           12
Workstations                                      6
Land Information Systems                         2
Ministry of Justice                               2
Ministry of Agriculture                          2
Improvement of ANC organization                 12
Total                           48



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 15
Training
2.          Strengthening of ANC's human resources, modernization of cadastral
mapping techniques, and increasing the autonomy of local offices will impose a
considerable training burden on ANC, and on the educational institutions which
traditionally provide ANC with its trained manpower. A master plan pre-
paratory study will be carried out during the first project year. Technical
assistance will be provided to the educational institutions. The training to
be provided will address the needs of new staff for initiation courses,
current staff for refresher courses, managers for the introduction of a new
management approach, and technicians for new mapping and data management
techniques.
3.          Technical Assistance to Education Institutions.  Technical
assistance will be provided to the education institutions to fine tune their
programs to the needs of ANC.   Academic education in surveying is provided by
the CNTS for master's degree, by the Institute of Technology for Public Works
and Building construction (Institut Technoloaiaue des Travaux Publics et du
Batiment, ITTPB) for higher technician diploma (two-year program of post-
secondary education), and the vocational training centers for the draftsman
certificate (baccalaureate level). Technical assistance to update textbooks
for these institutions will be provided for a total of six staff-months. The
Bank loan will finance rehabilitation of CNTS-owned photogrammetry equipment,
which will be used for educational and for production purposes.
4.          Initiation courses.  To prepare new staff for the specificities of
cadastre mapping and land registration, ANC will run initiation courses using
its own staff as well as staff from CF and CNTS. It is expected that these
courses will be held on CNTS premises in Arzew. Some 140 trainee-years will
be provided with the assistance of 4 man-years in short term inputs. These
courses will primarily address the needs of technicians and higher technicians
(90 percent) and will pay particular attention to the legal aspects of ANC
activity.
5.          Refresher courses.  Current staff will receive training to adapt
to the evolving mission of ANC. These courses will primarily deal with the
legal aspects of cadastre establishment and with the use of modern
technologies. during the project all technical staff will take a one-month
refresher course, which represents 125 trainee-years. The initiation course
setting will also be used for these courses.
6.          Management trainino.  The improvement plan of ANC's organization
will generate training needs. Local agency managers will have to adapt to
greater autonomy, and ANC management will have to improve its management
skills to carry out the ANC/DGDN performance plan. Some 120 trainee-weeks
will provided with the assistance of 2 staff-months in short-term inputs.
7.          New maRoino and data manaoement technicoues.  Introduction of new
techniques will include training of operators. This training will be given
in situ, or in other cadastre or mapping agencies. It relates to GPS,
stereoplotting, computer aided mapping, computerized data-base management, and
maintenance of software. This training will represent 24 trainee-months and
will require an assistance of 6 staff-months.



-44-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 15
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPPlRT
TRAINING PROGRAM FOR THE NATIONAL CADASTRE AGENCY
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PREPARATORY STUDY AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF A TRAINING PROGRAM
FOR THE NATIONAL CADASTRE AGENCY
A. BACKGROUND
1.          The National Cadastre Agency (Aaence Nationale du Cadastre, ANC),
established in 1989, is a public entity with about 1,800 staff members.  Its
responsibilities entail the establishment of cadastral maps and the
preparation of land titles for Algeria's urban land and part of its
agricultural land on the 34th parallel of latitude.
Cadastral Maps and Land Titles
2.          ANC has set up cadastral maps for 2 percent of the agricultural
territory and is rapidly expanding so that registration can be completed
within the next 15 years. The Agency uses 1:5000 orthophoto plans prepared by
the National Cartography Institute (Institut National de Cartographie, INC)
that are supplemented by ground surveys. In the urban area, the Agency's
production has not yet become very substantial, and will include 1:2,000,
1:1,000 and 1:500 orthophoto plans as well as ground surveys, depending on the
complexity of the plots. Completion of the urban cadastral cartography is
exp,ected within the next 15 years.
3.          ANC is also responsible for preparation of the documents required
for land titling, which are then transferred to the Land Registration Office
(Conservation Fonci&re, CF) for registration of actual rights. This task has
recently been broadened in order to avoid an overlap of work caused by surveys
for the preparation of cadastral maps and CF surveys for land title
preparation. The data classified according to owners and users -- the
registration matrix -- has been partially computerized.
ANC Management
4.          ANC was established after the dissolution of the Cadastre
Department of the Ministry of Economy. It inherited 48 local offices (one per
wilaya), which have since become local cadastre agencies. These agencies
carry out programs for cadastral mapping, and their financial autonomy is
being increased. Five regional agencies (Algiers, Bechar, Constantine, Oran,
and Ouargla) coordinate the local ones and support them at the technical
level. At present, the ANC is strengthening its management structures on the
personnel, material, and financial level and carrying out an organizational
study.



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page 4 .of 15
3. ANC'S GENERAL DIRECTION
5.          ANC is strengthening its technical and human resources so that,
within five years, it will reach a cadastral map production and land-titling
cycle consistent with the 15-year establishment plan. It is also modernizing
technical procedures and increasing the autonomy and responsibilities of its
local agencies.
Human Resources Growth
6.          An increase in the production process requires the recruitment of
about 500 more agents over the next five years. These agents should be
trained in cadastral mapping and land registration techniques.
strengthening and Modernization of Technical Tools
7.          Adequate strengthening and modernization of technical tools
basically implies the systematic use of photogrammetry and development in the
use of graphic as well as alphanumeric software programs. The importance of
the ANC photogrammetry program requires the Agency to use its own equipment
for analytical restitution. Due to the specific nature of photogrammetry,
operator training should be sought with the manufacturers first. The Agency's
computer applications include topographic calculation software, computerized
aided design for the establishment of cadastral maps, and the computerization
of land titles. A study on the computerization master plan is being launched
at the same time as this study. Training to the use and maintenance of
computer tools is part of the general training program. The training program
will also include the training of CF agents for the use of data-base
management software, as a computerized land titles data base will become a
tool used by both the ANC and CF.
Expansion of ANC's Legal Role
8.          The recent decision that ANC be responsible for the overall work
implemented prior to the land registration requires that the legal
responsibilities of its agents be strengthened through the secondment of staff
from CF. Therefore, the general training program should take into account the
definition and set up of such legal training.
Modernization of ANC's Management
9.          ANC's management approach stems from the rapid increase in means
as well as goals in generalizing a cadastral maps and land titles within a 15-
year period. The increasing autonomy granted to local agencies also
necessitates the implementation of structure and management systems adjusted
to the Agency's new tasks. Therefore, an organizational study has been
launched parallel to the present study. The general training program should
integrate the additional training needs generated by the new organization of
the Agency.



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 15
C. OBJECT1VES AND CONSISTENCY OF TOE STUDY
10.         The consultant shoulds (a) evaluate the training needs of the
Agency; determine how these needs are presently satisfied, and assess the
local training resources; (b) submit a training program comprising program
description, annual staff requirements for each program, and methods as well
as their respective educational means; and (c) assist the Agency's training
team in implementing the training program. While providing this service, the
consultant should work in close cooperation with ANC's training staff and
should, as much as possible, call upon other training resources provided in
Algeria.
I.     Diagnosis of Needs and Training Resources (20 percentl91)
11.         Concerning staff development, the consultant should base the
diagnosis on the Preparatory Report for the Cadastre Project Beture-Setame
(October 1991) and the November 1991 Aide-Memoire of the World Bank mission.
He should complete the following tasks:
-     expand the analysis currently available for present staff of
ANC and CF in terms of functions and training level;
-     thoroughly define required responsibilities and training
based upon recruitment perspectives and the future
organization of services;
*     define the training time required for different areas in
which agents could obtain administrative and technical
skills, including:
1.    initial training and recruitment levels and criteria
for new staff;
2.    present qualification levels for existing staff.
*     define detailed training requirements for redeployment
resulting from technical development and new
responsibilities;
*     set up an inventory for training needs of present staff; and
*     evaluate current training resources (including numerical
capacity and appropriateness of instruction for training
needs) and locally available training resources (training
organizations, trainers, textbooks).
19/         This breakdown is an estimate of the portion of time that the
selected consultant should spend on each of these tasks in order
to complete this study.



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 15
II.    Establishment of a Training Program (40 percent)
12.         Based upon the diagnosis approved by the ANC board, the consultant
will submit a training program that defines:
*     initial training and retraining programs elaborating on
areas of desired competence, length of courses and
internships, and necessary educational support;
*     number and profile of trainers and the selection methods for
ANC staff responsible for training;
*    trainers, training plan and program;
specialized training in computers and photogrammetry for
workshop chiefs and photogrammetry operators: program and
means;
*     general information program for staff concerning
governmental development goals on general land information,
and information program for notaries, private eurveyors, and
judges specializing in land-related cases.
13.         The training program should also define institutions participating
in the training process, their role, and follow up and supervision of their
activities. Such institutions could include the National Center for Spacial
Techniques (CNTS) at Arzew as well as professional training centers.
14.         The training program will comprise time tables of initial training
and retraining programs for an overall program covering a five-year period and
their respective annual budgets.
III. Implementation of the Training Program (40 percent)
15.         Upon approval of the training program by the ANC board, the
consultant will assist the Agency's training team in implementing the training
program, particularly for the establishment of agreements with participating
training institutions, the recruitment of outside trainera, and the drafting
of educational documentation.



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page of 7 of 15
1D. EXECUTION OF STUDY
Implementation Schedule
Part It                         one month upon notification
Analysis of results and orientation
carried out by ANC:                         one month
Part II:                        approximately two months, including
several missions to Algeria
Approval of training program by ANC:        one month
Part III:                       eight one-week missions to Algeria
over a two-lear period.
Upon completion of Parts I and II, the consultant will submit a report to ANC.
For Part III, a short report will also be submitted at the end of each mission
to Algeria.
Required Profile
16.         The consultant should have experience in training organization as
well as a sound knowledge of administrative and technical problems pertaining
to cadastral mapping and land registration. The consultant should be fluent
in French. He should also be familiar with carrying out missions at the
institutional level.
E. SELECTION OF CONSULTANT
17.         The consultant should define the work methods and required timeframe
for implementation of the mission. The criteria for bid selection will be:
*    professional references of the consulting firm with experience
in training in land registration (10 percent);
*     relevance of proposed methodological approach in projected
schedule of interventions (40 percent);
*    profile of experts knowledgeable in land registration
(40 percent); and
*     total cost of operation (10 percent).
The bidder will be required to provide references for each of these points.



_ 49 _
Annex 2
Page 8 of 15
MASTER PLAN FOR COMPUTERIZATION OF THE
NATIONAL CADASTRE AGENCY
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PREPARATORY STUDY
A. BACKGROUND
1.          The National Cadastre Agency (Aaence Nationale du Cadastre, ANC),
established in 1989, is a public entity with about 1,800 staff members. It is
responsible for the establishment of cadastral maps as well as for the
preparation of land titles for Algeria's urban land and part of its agricultural
land in the north of the 34th parallel of latitude.
Cadastral Maps and Land Titles
2.          ANC has set up cadastral maps for 2 percent of the agricultural
territory and is rapidly expanding so that registration can be completed within
the next 15 years.  The Agency uses 1:5000 orthophoto plans prepared by the
National Cartography Institute (Institut National de Cartographie, INC) that are
supplemented by ground surveys. In urban areas, the Agency's production has not
yet become very significant, and include 1:2,000, 1:1,000 and 1:500 orthophoto
plans as well as ground surveys, depending on the complexity of the plots. The
completion of urban cadastral maps is expected within the next 15 years.
3.          ANC is also responsible for the preparation of documents required for
land titling which are then transferred to the Land Registration Office Institute
(Conservation Fonci re, CF) for registration of actual rights. This task has
recently been broadened to avoid an overlap of work caused by surveys for the
preparation of cadastral maps and CF surveys for land title preparation. The
data classified according to owners and users -- the registration matrix -- has
been partially computerized.
ANC Management
4.          ANC was established following the dissolution of the Cadastre
Department of the Ministry of Economy. It inherited 48 offices (one per wilava)
which have since become local cadastre agencies. These agencies carry out the
program for the establishment of cadastral mapping; more financial autonomy is
being granted to them. Five regional agencies (Algiers, Bechar, Constantine,
Oran, and Ouargla) coordinate the local ones and support them at the technical
level. At present, the ANC is strengthening its management structures at the
personnel, material, and financial level and is carrying out an organizational
study.



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page of 9 of 15
B. ANC'S GENERAL DIRECTION
5.          ANC is strengthening its technical and human resources so that,
within five years, it will have reached a cadastral map production and land
titling cycle consistent with the 15-year establishment plan.   It is also
modernizing technical procedures and increasing the autonomy and responsibilities
of its local agencies.
Computerization of Management of Alphanumeric Data and Production of Plans
6.          In terms of alphanumeric data, ANC plans to set up a data base for
land titles to be used by ANC and CF, which will be responsible for its
maintenance. In order to be of legal value, it should be sufficiently reliable
and an accurate substitute for land titles. It will gradually be made accessible
to notaries and registered surveyors. The data base will be installed in each
wilaya.
7.          Concerning the production of plans, ANC would like to gradually
install software for topographic calculations and the drawing of cadastral maps.
This software should establish a direct link between restoration and preparation
of orthophoto plans on one hand, and drawing on the other. At a later stage, it
should be able to define graphic objects (plots) and carry out indexation in
order to ensure linkage with land data bases. The software should thus be set
up to allow for the use of cadastral maps as a basis for the creation of land
information systems. ANC is currently purchasing 8 graphic work stations and
software for topographic calculations, computer aided design, and alphanumeric
data base management.
Modernization of Management
8.          ANC's orientation in management is a result of a rapid increase in
the agency's techniques and its mission to realize cadastral mapping and land
titling within a 15-year period. An increasing autonomy is allocated to local
agencies, while a computerized management information system is being prepared
through the above-mentioned organizational study. Therefore, the master plan
study does not aim to analyze information flow linked with agency management, but
will focus on the integration of management information systems with software
consistency and material used by the agency, as well as tools for computer
maintenance.
Field and Nature of Study on Computerization Master Plan
9.          The consultant will analyze the current information flow, procedures,
software and hardware, human resources for the production of cadastral maps, and
the establishment of documentation linked with the preparation of land titles.
He will examine ANC's direction in technical software and will, if necessary,
submit recommendations for its enh&ncement.   He will propose a computerized
master plan based upon technical scenarios, taking also into account the specific
needs in management tools. The consultant will also draft an implementation
program as well as the required technical documents.   His intervention will
entail the following:



- 51 -
Annex 2
Page 10 of 15
I.     Analysis of Existing Tools and Diagnosis (10 percent2')
10.         At the ANC and CF level, the consultant will collect data pertaining
tot (i) needs, goals, and schedule; (ii) financial, material, and human
resources, and their foreseeable development; (iii) technical and administrative
procedures; and (iv) situation of current hardware and software.
11.         Based upon the above information, the consultant will evaluate the
present situation, i.e.: (i) assess technical procedures (in terms of efficiency,
reliability) while paying particular attention to interaction between ANC and CF;
(ii) assess the technical organization and distribution of means between
headquarters, regional and local agencies; and (iii) assess software application
(relevance, reliability, versatility, and portability).
II.    Definition of a Kaster Plan and Technical Scenarios (40 percent)
12.         The Master Plan will entail: (i) proposals to improve or simplify
technical procedures; (ii) a definition of computerization goals and schedule;
and (iii) a definition of standards for data format and interface. Based on the
results of the organizational study, the consultant will integrate the
management's computer needs.
13.         Based on the Master Plan and upon approval by the Agency, the
consultant will propose technical scenarios comprisingt (i) architecture,
hardware, material and means; (ii) maintenance; and (iii) training. ANC will
select one option taking into account portability, maximum use of standard
software, reliability, data safety, absorption capacity of ANC and CF, and the
conversion costs of existing systems.
7II.   Preparation of Implementation Plan and Technical Documents (50 percent)
14.         The implementation plan comprises: (i) definition of key actions,
priorities, and implementation schedule; (ii) identification of structures and
support systems (central, regional, or local services); (iii) identification of
necessary resources (human, financial, etc.); (iv) preparation of a recruitment
and training program, and identification of technical assistance needs; and (v)
elaboration of management and follow-up methods pertaining to the implementation
of a new computerized system.
15.         Based  on  the  selected  solution,  the  consultant  will  prepare
specifications for the implementation of the new computerized system, technical
specifications, and bidding documents.
20/         This breakdown is an estimate of the portion of time that the
selected consultant should spend on each of these tasks in order
to complete this study.



- 52 -
Annex 
Page 11 of 15
Co. SCHDUL3 OF STUDY
Implementation Schedule
Part Xs                        two weeks upon notification
Analysis of results and orientation
carried out by ANC:                        one month
Part II:                       one month
Selection of strategy by ANC:              one month
Part III:                      one month
Final approval by ANC:                     one month
Required Profile
16.         The consultant should have experience in organization and management,
as well as a sound knowledge of administrative and technical problem. pertaining
to cadastral mapping and land registration. The consultant should be fluent in
French.   He should  also be familiar with carrying out missions  at the
institutional level.
D. S3L3CTION OF CONSULTANT
17.         The consultant should define the work methods and required timeframe
for implementation of the mission.
The criteria for bid selection will be:
*    professional  reference.  from  the  consulting  firm  with
experience in computerization in cadastral mapping and land
registration (10 percent);
*     relevance of the proposed methodological approach in the
projected schedule of interventions (40 percent)y
*    profile  of  experts  (distinguishing  between  profiles  of
organizers and computer experts) and CVs of other experts
knowledgeable in cadastral mapping and land registration is
required (40 percent); and
*    budgeted time, unit costs of different interventions, and the
total cost of operations (10 percent).
The bidder will be required to provide references for each of above points.



- 53 -
Annex 2
Page 12 of 15
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE IMPROVEMENT PLAN OF ANC'S ORGANIZATION
General Backaround and Goals
1.          The Government of Algeria has launched the establishment of a general
cadastre (cadastral mapping and land titling) covering all useable land in the
country.   Considering the numerous issues which have to be addressed in the
implementation process of this ambitious task during the coming years, it was
decided to establish a public administration authority (EPA). This authority was
entrusted with the set up of land registration procedures as well as with the
preparation of land titling. The National Cadastre Agency (Aaence Nationale du
Cadastre, ANC), was created in 1989 and can now evaluate its first year of
operation.
2.     The World Bank has appraised a project that supports the implementation
of this program. In order to increase ANC's responsibilities in compliance with
its mandate, it has been agreed to integrate the development of an improvement
plan for ANC's organizational structure into this project. The present document
aims to: (a) support ANC in the introduction of institutional reforms
(reorganization, development, and follow-up of management information systems);
and (b) assist in the implementation of a new organizational structure in terms
of the proposed systems.
Scoce of Works
Task 1: Analysis of the orcanization 15 Percent yrioritv21/1
3.          The consultant will analyze the present functioning of the ANC
according to the following five criteria:
(a)   Planning;
(b)   Organization;
(c)   Management approach;
(d)   Supervision; and
(e)   Assessment of results.
4.          In addition to the  analysis of the organizational  structure,
management information systems, supervision, planning, and follow-up of work
programs, the consultant also has to evaluate the functioning of regional and
local agencies.
21/         This breakdown is an estimate of the portion of time that the
selected consultant should spend on each of these tasks in order
to complete this study.



- 54 -
Annex 2
Page 13 of 15
5.          Operational links between ANC headquarters and its regional and local
agencies, their relations with tutelage, government, and the beneficiaries of
services will also have to be evaluated.
6.          An analysis should be carried out for those Land Conservation, (CF)
responsibilities that were held by the Land Registration Office, Conservation
Fonci&re, (CF), and that must now be integrated with those of the ANC, in order
to aim at rationalization and avoid duplication, as well as reallocate certain
human and material resources, if necessary.
7.          For each of the above-mentioned paragraphs (3, 4, 5, and 6) the
potential bottlenecks must be identified and different solutions must be
proposed, highlighting their advantages and disadvantages.
Task 2: Imgrovement olan for the orcanization (55 percent Prioritv)
8.          Based upon the afore-mentioned diagnosis, the consultant must submit
an overall improvement plan for ANC operations. Without limiting the scope of
the subjects to be covered, proposals for the following aspects should be made:
organizational structure, administrative support logistics, and management
approach.
9.          Organizational structure.   For each of the three levels of ANC
(headquarters, region, wilava), an optimal structure and composition (number and
nature) of staff must be proposed. For and within each department, division, and
service, functional and operational roles must be clearly identified.
10.         A specific integration program for all new functions stemming from
CF must be prepared.   The optimal implementation method and best use of
transferred or new staff must be outlined.
11.         For the purposes of this study, the consultant should assume that
staff requirements of ANC for compliance with its responsibilities concurs with
those projected in the BETURE-SETAME report, which was complemented and updated
by project appraisal documents in November 1991. The consultant should also
assume that equipment and supplies required by operational ANC services are
available in the quantity defined in above-mentioned documents.
12.         Administrative support logistics.  The consultant should list all
administrative tools  necessary for ANC's  smooth operation:    inter alia,
procedures   manuals,   management   information   and   supervision   systems,
computerization,  office space development.   He should also include:   an
appropriate justification for each of these proposed tools, and the
quantification of needs and, if necessary, applicable standards. This section
should complement relevant elements indicated in the above-mentioned documents.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page of 14 of 15
13.         To be more specific, the consultant should present a management
information system that allows for follow up on ANC program activities as well
as a management information reflecting all ANC operations. The system will allow
ANC to manage and follow up on the performance of its operations (at local,
regional, and overall levels).   It should establish performance indicators
(defining quantity and cost data bases as well as calculation methods) so that
general ANC performance can be evaluated (at any time of the year and with
respect to previous years) in terms of management efficiency and deficiency. The
cost-accounting system should comprise the following:
(a)   Identification of cost centers (with corresponding service
centers) and fixed, variable, direct, and indirect cost
elements;
(b)   Definition of qualitative production and service data bases,
and calculation methods for cost prices;
(c)   Definition of means  for  data collection  and processing
(comprising an accounting plan and methods), work sheets, and
periodical reports for management and tutelage.
14.         Managment approach.  The consultant should develop a management
approach as well as required implementation methods. This general management
framework should be centered around the three principal areas below and based
upon the aspect of quality, as follows:
(a)   beneficiaries;
(b)   staff and their capacity for achieving ANC results; and
(c)   internal and external communications.
15.         Strategic planning.   The consultant also develops proposals for
potential elements of strategic planning for ANC, and possible short-, medium-,
and long-term strategies. Strategies focus mainly on the role that ANC should
play with government agencies involved in the land registration process. The
latter agencies constitute the basis for all land information systems.
16.         Points of Interest.   While developing proposals, the consultant
should take the following two prominent issues into account:
(a)   Costs.  In view of ANC's limited means, implementation costs
for the different proposals should be within budget.
Proposals should be critical and contain a maximum of
creativity; and
(b)   simplicity.  Since ANC is a young, developing institution, the
proposed systems must be easy to implement.



- 56 -
Annex 2
Page 15 of 15
Tank 3s Schedule and Cost estimate 110 percent Drioritv)
17.         The consultant should prepare a detailed schedule for proposal
implementation that describes each stage and, if necessary, each subsequent
phase. He should also make a cost estimate (if necessary, including salaries,
fees, and other components) for the implementation of each of these stages.
Task 4: Action Plan agreed with the State 130 Percent priority)
18.         The consultant will prepare an Action Plan to be agreed with the
State comprising:
(a)   a triennial program for cadastre implementation, according to
defined conditions of productivity; and
(b)   a triennial financial commitment, based upon ANC production,
to be modified according to a pre-determined productivity
level.
19.         This action plan should include suggested incentives for managers and
staff in order to enhance their productivity, as well as appropriate mechanisms
to monitor program advancement and the realization of pre-determined productivity
goals.   The consultant wilj. examine the feasibility of setting up a self-
financing system for ANC which would allow for conservation of the present EPA
status. The ANC income base will be composed of Government financing according
to the action plan for implementation of a national land registration system.
In addition, a tariff system will be established for all other services required
by other private or public beneficiaries. The goal of the action plan is to
allocate more autonomy and accountability to ANC within the governmental
structure through an adequate status. The consultant should elaborate on that
status, taking account of the Algerian public administration system.
Methods and Schedule
23.         The consultant will work in close collaboration with the agency,
which will establish a follow-up working group. Results of the various steps
will be presented to, discussed with, and approved by that group. The focus of
each phase will be based upon group review of previous activities.   Upon
completion of each task, the consultant will write a brief intermediary report.
At the end of his assignment, he will issue a final report.   However, the
consultant should note that the main results of his work will be the management
tools which he developed and put into place.
24.         Implementation should take two weeks for task 1, four months for task
2, one month for task 3, and two months for task 4.   A one-month pause for
evaluation will separate two consecutive tasks.



-57 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROJECT
STAFP APPRAISAL REPORT
3. Cadastre Production costs
S.    Rural Areas
Cadastral Mapoinna                             USs per ha
Aerial Photograph 1:20000                            0.31
Orthophotomap 1l5000                                 1 00
Ground survey                           USS per team*year
Recurrent costs per team*year
Salaries                                           22,600
Materials                                           2,000
operation and maintenance                           2,900
Subtotal                                                     27,500
Depreciation of Capital Cost Items
Building                                              500
Vehicle                                             2,000
Topographic equipment                               1,000
Subtotal                                                      3,500
overhead                                              10%            3,100
Total per team                                                      34,100
Annual production per team                         11,000 ha
Total per ha                                                          4.41
Parcel reaistration                     US$ per team*year
Recurrent costs per team*year
Salaries                                            6,000
Materials                                             500
Operation and maintenance                             500
Subtotal                                                      7,000
Depreciation of Capital Cost Items
Building                                              500
Equipment                                             200
Subtotal                                                        700
overhead                                               10%             770
Total per team                                                       8,470
Annual production per team                          1,000 parcels
total per parcel                                                      8 47
Number of parcels per ha                             0.12 parcels/ha
Total per ha                                                          1.02
Cadastral _oa  + parcel adiudication IUSS oer Ra)                     5.43



- 58 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
II.    Urban Areas
Cadastral Mavoina                                 US$ per ha
Aerial Photograph 1:5,000                                5.30
Orthophotomap 1:1,000                                      25
Ground survey                               USs per team*year
Recurrent costs per team*year
Salaries                                                22,600
Materials                                                2,000
Operation and maintenance                                2,900
Subtotal                                                          27,500
Depreciation of Capital Cost Items
Building                                                   500
Vehicle                                                  2,000
Topographic equipment                                    1,000
Subtotal                                                           3,500
Overhead                                                   10%           3,100
Total per team                                                          34,100
Annual production per team                                 300
total per ha                                                               144
Parcel reaistration                          USS per team*year
Racurrent costs per team*year
Salaries                                                 6,000
Materials                                                  500
Operation and maintenance                                  500
Subtotal                                                            7,000
Depreciation of Capital Cost Items
Building                                                   500
Equipment                                                  200
Subtotal                                                               700
Overhead                                                    10%            770
Total per team                                                           8,470
Annual production per team                            1,000 parcels
total per parcel                                                          8.47
Number of parcels per ha                              20 parcels/ha
Total per ha                                                               169
cadastral mao + narcel adjudication (USS ger Hal                           313



- 59 -
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
4. Performance Indicators and Annual Targets
These performance indicators comprises (a) production indicators; (b)
productivity indicators; and (c) indicators dealing with th& implementation of
the ANC strengthening program.  Target values for these indicators will be
included in the performance plans prepared annually by DODN and ANC.   The
organization and management study will result in an MIS that would enable
monitoring these indicators and complementing them wlth financial performance
indicators.
Production indicators
Production of rural cadastral maps (thousand hectares per annum);
ProductLon of urban cadastral maps (thousand hectares per annum); and
Parcel adjudication (thousand parcels per annum)
Productivity indicators
Production per team (thousand hectares per team and per annum);
Rural cadastral map; and
Urban cadastral map
Parcel adjudication per officer (thousand parcels per officer and per annum)
implementation of the ANC strengthening program
Training provided to ANC staff (trainees per annum);
Financial management staffing (cumulated number of accountants recruited);
Completion of the organization and management, computerizatlon; and
Training master plan studies and implementation of the Management
Information System (MIS) of ANC.
Provisional annual targets   1992/93       1993/94     1994/95      l995/96
Rural cadastral maps
Annual production               600          700         800          900
Production per team               9           10          11           12
Urban cadastral mans
Anaual production                 3            8           11          14
Production per team                 .25         .28          .3           .33
Parcel ad1udication
Annual adjudication             1SO          200          300         350
Adjudication per officer            .8          .9          1           1.1
Trainina to ANC staff             250          350          350         350
Financial manacement staffina       12          24           36          48
Comgletion of studies                *
Implementation of ANC's MIS                      *            *           *



- 60 -
Annex 5
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
5. Supervision Schedule
Prolect Year         Date          Duration   Mission Comrosition                   Areas of Concentration
(m/yr)        (weeks)
1            09/92             2        Cadastral Specialist                 Loan effectiveness; review of
Management SpetciaList              Performance Plan; Training master
Mapping Specialist                  plan preparation; Pilot zones
mapping; Computerization master plan
preparation; procurement for aerial
photography, aerial photo airpLane,
stereoplotters, field equipment;
building construction studies.
1             12/92            1        Cadastral Specialist                Organization and management study;
Management Specialist               Training master plan preparation;
Training Specialist                 Computerization master plan
preparation.
i             03/93            2        CadastraL Specialist                 Computerization of Land titles and of
Management Specialist               map drawing; land information
Computer SpeciaList                 systems; performance pLan and
management information system;
evaluation of pilot zone tests;
review of PYZ work program.
2             07/93            1        Cadastral Specialist                 Aircraft and photogrammetry equipment
Training Specialist                 procurement; building construction;
Computer Specialist                 training; land policy studies.
Agriculturalist
2             10/93            2        Cadastral Specialist                 Review of first performance plan
Financial Analyst                   progress report and second
Computer Specialist                 performance plan preparation; review
of PY1 progress reports; land
information systems; computerization
of tand titles and of map drawing;
progress on building construction.
2             03/94            2        Cadastral Specialist                 Review of PY3 work program;
Management Specialist               procurement of field equipment,
workstations and photogrammetry
equipment; management information
system.
3             09/94            1        Cadastral Specialist                 Review of PY2 and performance plan #2
Financial Analyst                   progress reports; land information
systems.
3             03/95            2        Cadastral Specialist                 Review of PY4 work program;
Training Specialist                 procurement of field equipment,
Computer Specialist                 workstations and photograrmetry
equipment; land information systems.
4             09/95            1        Cadastral Specialist                 Review of PY3 and performance plan #2
Financial nalyst                    progress reports; land information
Environment specialist              systems.
4             03/96            2        Cadastral Specialist                 Preparation of completion and impact
Economist                           evaluation report



ALGERIA
CADASTPE PPOJECT
PPOJECT IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
1992       1993        1994       1995        1996
l1213 41213 4123 412 3 41l23 4
aerial photography                      1         z 2  I 1 2                      Q 12 1
aerial photography aircraft                /                =__ __77
photoprocessing equipment
photogrammetry equipment                          22z
ground survey equipfent                        r/Zrr
GPS                                           -177^ 2
vehicles               czz
basic computer equipment                               artZ
uorkstations                           -=rZ
computers for land registration           M/ C2  FT
building construction
organization study
computerization study
training master plan                         m   zaZ          zza   m
Tec. Ass. to DGDN                                  i
Training                                           /2/             /      //////ZZ7/, 771111111111
E i preparation
!ZZm  implementation
1/ Financed by the Government
21 Financed by Bank Loan 3176-AL
3/ first step: improvement of textbooks
4/ second step: setup of specific curriculae



- 62 -
Annex 7
7. Disbursement Schedule
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CADASTRE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Dirbursgment Schedule
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE (USS MILLION)
Bank Fiscal Year      93    94    95    96    97    98
s==u   m= ==      ===   ===   ===
Annual               0.3   2.5   4.5   7.0   9.5   9.2
Cumulative           0.3   2.8   7.3  14.3  23.8  33.0



- 63 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
8. Documents Available in the Proifct File
WORKING PAPERS
1.   Etude relative a la mise en oeuvre du cadastre g6n6ral, Minist6re des
Finances (April 1988).
2.   Etude de preparation du Projet Cadastre - Rapport intermediaire,
BETURE-SETAME (October-November 1990).
3.   Etude de preparation du Projet Cadastre - Rapport final, BETURE-SETAME
(October 1991).
4.   Mission d'identification - aide m6moire, I8RD (December 1989).
5.   Mission de pr6evaluation - aide m6moire, IBRD (July 1991).
6.   Mission d'6valuation - aide m6moire, IBRD (November 1991).
7.   Rapport our la mission d'6tude aupres des services du cadastre de cing
(5) pays, ANC !December 1991).
LEGAL DOCUMENTS
8.   Ordonnance 75-74 du 12 novembre 1975 portant 6tablissement du cadastre
g6n6ral et institution du 'ivre foncier.
9.   D6crets 76-62 et 76-63 du 25 mars 1976 relatifs a l'etablissement du
cadastre general et a l'institution du livre foncier.
10.  Loi 87-19 du 8 d6cembre 1987 determinant le mode d'exploitation des
terres agricoles du foncier national et fixant les droits et obligations
des producteurs.
11.  Constitution de la R5publique Algerienne D6mocratique et Populaire du 23
f6vrier 1989.
12.  D6cret executif 89-234 du 19 decembre 1989 portant creation de l'Agence
National du Cadastre.
13.  Loi 90-25 du 18 novembre 1990 portant orientation fonciere.
14.  Loi 90-29 du ler decembre 1990 relative a l'amenagement et l'urbanisme.
15.  Loi 91-10 du 27 avril 1991 relative aux biens Wakfa.
16.  Loi 91-11 du 27 avril 1991 fixant lea rigles relatives a l'expropriation
pour cauce d'utilit6 publique.



- 64 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
17.  D6cret ex6cutif 92-63 du 12 f6vrier 1992 modifiant et completant le
d6cret ex6cutif 89-234 du 19 d6cembre 1989 portant cr6ation de l'Agence
National du Cadastre.
18. D6ecret executif 92-134 du 7 avril 1992 modifiant et completant le d6cret
76-62 du 25 mars 1976, modifi6 et compl6t6, relatif a l'6tablissement du
cadastre g6neral et a l'institution du livre foncier.



I              ~Al GERIA                                                                  Me9!raon Jea
A L G E R I A                                         M  ~~e   i f a r r a n e a n i      
CADASTRE PROJECT
REGIONAL OFFICES / HEADQUARTERS
OF NATIONAL CADASTRE AGENCY
28    ~          ~             -f~            K6         /..
-           C,~~~~~~ 
\911AYANAIkES                            i!  CHEbSRJAMECNC2KCA                  -       RN4FDNA11ONMIEOW                O,  WstVU E                                                                              1   ^'c    !  
1 hnE4L                301  BAYADI               30 QYARISIA                       PE00W,tOshLlCE$F5oNqIOFtL                OINELWILCCAROLS                 r   W,AAtA4WIRTIR3                           .     
J^MN TEMOUCHENt          %w El UN                  tC IFIHEAEC                                                                                                                                                             %            N
-M0IIERS                 C. OIARDMIA               20 5*12_4                                                                                                                                                                   .12~
23 AIN1ASA               24 (MJELMA                19 HETIF                   LW   CIAL SVe                                    MVOA0                           i   kATflcRtL                                                       4?JT't..d.47 y%r
9AI RTA                 33 [1LlI                 2 2 S19,1 BRAllA  E                                                                                                                                       *    y8< ,*/,,     32                  
389341HA                13S JIE L                 2 ! 5429,3                                                                                                                                                "      NA 1,/ -. .~     /1.
38113.14                   IlSJ HbCHELA           41 SCUlL 4313.                                                         -   MERDFCIS                      .-.-lWtAECuA;ES                                  3       . >,       
754534                      13.4011 !                T1 AMA3JGHASSET                                                                                                                                  S
9 CUIDA                 7V MASCASA                 7 TIEBE=A                                   D          33           100         H50                                                                   i                i .        11 '   
34E4RDJEOURFERD~~~1 2f.5                                        MI                           - I    M     E I              I     _                -       3P4SCNALHMeDLLNDAUE3              ISo  '\ \ '          .         S
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?
IC  UIRA1                -2 MILk                   3 TINSDOUF                                                 ilIlOClEtERS                                                                                          N         \1         1-'           ,
35 EOUMERDiES            2,s MOSIAOANEM            4;> TIPA2A                       flu R',c4 ha, H ERQ aedb                         I    A 
2'iCO N 51L StlN E    5 b  ^SlLA               :x  TISSE INSILT                 CO. 4 .    anbr m -o S. ,, anSne   reipor s    Sr  4.    lsrern ;o lu,.  ITi rsJ*r   1_4  ,-                                                         I   
CCNSIkANTH              42NJyJ                    .44 112- 4C otE^E41N ifrn/n*Fe''roo=lFln   Cj,pooArM.. 35.donCmokio7@eW So Ando' 33 lIr                                                                                   4
051A41A                 Si ClANAI                 SIEO ERN                          F 5'$ONAL 3OFF ~ICES OF i~ 1,4PN L  r3y31oPAED  fsWIeLAAAD So,W eHrs                     W                                                  .R 
A AIN DEl L.  " OUCD         4CCM   ~~~~~~~~~,,,$erl F st CUArcle.ls CirD,gS' si ENer59
-9~~ ~ ~   ~                           __T A  3         _ 2_D BE AB         ,,          ___E                                                                                                                           X '    ICA
~~,&ECHAR  I 8,  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mn- I' A
69PJAIA  AU  KI* WHFIA  41   5OUC   AHRA5                                                            ---VALA-YA  bW'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES  373N9



