Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3488 AL
(Cadastre Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 5, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3488 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the "Bank").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the  financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (B) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
Page  2
(the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ANC" means the Borrower's National Cadastre Agency (Agence Nationale du 
Cadastre), established and operating as an administrative public establishment 
(etablissement public administratif) pursuant to the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 
89-234 dated December 19, 1989, as amended by the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 
92-63 dated February 12, 1992, and as applied by the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 75-74 
dated November 12, 1975, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banque d'Algerie), 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10 dated April 14, 
1990, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"GCEP" means the Borrower's General Cadastre Establishment Program 
(Programme pour l'Etablissement du Cadastre General) which sets forth the long-term 
actions and measures, and
related financing plan, for establishing a land registration system (cadastre), which 
system includes a general cadastre and a land registry, throughout the Borrower's 
territory, all as provided in the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 75-74 dated November 12, 
1975, and the Borrower's Decrees No. 76-62 and No. 76-63 dated March 25, 1976, as 
amended by the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 92-134 dated April 7, 1992, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and as formulated in the report of the Borrower's 
Ministry of Finance dated April 1988;
(d)
"Multiannual Plan" means ANC's multiannual plan for the implementation of 
the GCEP, as such term is defined in sub-paragraph (c) of this Section, which plan is 
provided for both in the Borrower's executive decrees establishing ANC and within the 
framework of the Borrower's Law No. 88-02 dated January 12, 1988, and which plan sets 
forth, inter alia, ANC's obligations in respect of its production and productive 
capacity and the related financial resources to be made available by the Borrower for 
the implementation of the GCEP during the period 1993-1996;
(e)
"DGDN" means the General Directorate of National Domain (Direction 
Generale du Domain National) of the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 90-190 dated June 23, 1990, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;
(g)
"INC" means the Borrower's National Cartographic Institute (Institut 
National de Cartographie), established and operating as a public establishment with 
industrial and commercial personality (etablissement public caractcre industriel et 
commercial) pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 67-211 dated October 17, 1967, 
as amended by the Borrower's Ordonnances No. 68-84 dated April 23, 1968, and No. 73-27 
dated June 5, 1973, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(h)
"MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
 
(i)
"MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy;
 
(j)
"MOJ" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice;
 
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Statutes" means, collectively, the Borrower's Ordonnances, Decrees, and 
Executive Decrees referred to in sub-paragraphs (a), (c), (e) and (g) of this Section; 
Page  3
and
(m)
"GCEP Implementation Budget" means the budget, referred to in Sections 
3.03 (b) and (c) and 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, to be prepared by the Borrower each 
Fiscal Year specifying, inter alia, the proposed allocation of human, physical 
(including vehicles) and financial resources, and planned use thereof, and the 
programming of Project-related activities to be financed in whole or in part by the 
proceeds of the Loan, for the purposes of carrying out the
Multiannual Plan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty-three million dollars 
($33,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six (6) months' 
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be 
Page  4
amended to read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the agencies and ministries listed in sub-paragraph (b) (i) of 
this Section with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, accounting, economic,
cadastral, environmental protection and land survey practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
(i)
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall vest responsibility for the carrying out of the 
different parts of the Project in the agencies and ministries, as 
stated below:
ANC:  Parts A (1), B (1) (a), B (1) (b), B (1) (c), B (2) (b), B 
(3) (a) and B (4) of the Project;
INC:  Part A (3) of the Project;
DGDN: Parts A (2) and B (2) (a) of the Project;
MOA:  Part B (1) (d) of the Project; and
MOJ:  Parts B (1) (e), B (2) (c) and B (3) (b) of the Project.
(ii)
The Borrower shall make the necessary arrangements, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to ensure that each of such agencies and ministries 
shall carry out its respective obligations in respect of 
implementing said parts of the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and in order to coordinate the implementation of the GCEP and 
facilitate the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall take all action 
necessary to ensure that at all times ANC possesses a management team, with 
organizational standards and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and that said team is 
at all times staffed with personnel in numbers and with qualifications, experience and 
terms of employment all satisfactory to the Bank. Such team shall be under the 
responsibility of ANC's Director and shall include, inter alia, a Project manager, an 
administrative accountant and a training manager.
Section 3.03. (a) Without any limitation or restriction on the provisions of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried 
out through ANC, the GCEP on the basis of the Multiannual Plan with due diligence and 
efficiency, and shall at all times take all action necessary to achieve the objectives 
Page  5
thereof.
(b)
Not later than December 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal 
Year ending December 31, 1992, the Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, and thereafter furnish to the Bank the GCEP 
Implementation Budget proposed for the following Fiscal Year.
(c)
Not later than June 30 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal 
Year ending December 31, 1993, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an annual 
report, in such detail as shall be requested by the Bank, of the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in carrying out the GCEP Implementation Budget during the preceding 
Fiscal Year.
(d)
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly thereafter, taking into account the 
Bank's findings and recommendations, carry out, or cause to be carried out, the GCEP 
Implementation Budget with due diligence and efficiency, and at all times shall take 
all necessary measures to achieve the objectives thereof.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause the concerned agencies 
and ministries to maintain, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies or ministries of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project, or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
Page  6
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1992, furnish 
to the Bank, for its review and comments, a plan of action specifying all measures 
proposed to be taken by the Borrower to ensure that it will submit to the Bank, within 
the time limits provided in Section 4.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement, the Project 
audit reports required pursuant to the provisions of said Section, and all in 
accordance with generally accepted international auditing norms and principles.
(b)
The Borrower shall promptly thereafter carry out said plan of action, 
taking into consideration the Bank's comments and recommendations thereon.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall recruit, or cause ANC to recruit, under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, at least twelve (12) qualified administrative 
accountants in order to strengthen ANC's financial management.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Borrower, or any authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ANC or DGDN or INC.
(b)
Any of the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any one of the events 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, the Multiannual Plan.
(b)
The Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, the GCEP Implementation Budget proposed for the Fiscal Year 
ending December 31, 1993.
(c)
The Borrower shall have taken all action necessary to ensure, or caused 
ANC to take all action necessary to ensure, that qualified consultants have been 
recruited in respect of carrying the studies referred to in Parts B (1) (a) and B (1) 
(b) of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall have taken all action necessary to ensure, or caused 
ANC to take all action necessary to ensure, that the administrative accountants 
referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement have been recruited.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Governmental Palace
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINPLAN
67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI), or
197688 (TRT).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ N. Y. Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ P. Bottelier
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                4,000,000        30%
(2) Goods (including          22,500,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles, an aerial                         expenditures
Page  8
    photography air-
    plane, aerial photo-
    graphic, photogram-
    metric, topographic,
    reprographic and
    computer equipment,
    and documentation,
    but excluding fur-
    niture and sundry
    items)
(3) Furniture and              2,000,000        80%
    sundry items
(4) Consultants'               2,500,000        100%
    services and
    training
(5) Unallocated                2,000,000
    TOTAL                     33,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in establishing a land 
registration system (cadastre), which system includes a general cadastre and a land 
registry, throughout its territory, by supporting the first four (4) year period of 
the GCEP. In particular, the Project will assist the Borrower in: (i) developing the 
appropriate legal and institutional framework for the said registry; (ii) gradually 
increasing activities related to the said registry during the first four (4) year 
period of the GCEP; and (iii) organizing computerized and other information systems, 
based on the Cadastre, for taxation and other land-related uses. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Establishment of a Land Registration System (Cadastre)
 
1.
Cadastral Mapping. (a) Carrying out of the first four (4) year period of the 
GCEP (1993-1996) for the cadastral mapping of about three million (3,000,000) hectares 
of rural land and about thirty-six thousand (36,000) hectares of urban land, which 
program shall include, inter alia, use of aerial photography and orthophoto 
techniques, mapping surveys for the cadastral mapping of the Borrower's Birtouta, 
Oran, Mostaganem and El Oued pilot urban zones, and use of computerized and 
stereoplotting cadastral mapping techniques; and (b) acquisition, maintenance and use 
of three (3) global positioning system (GPS) receivers, vehicles, office space and 
equipment, topographic, reprographic and photogrammetric equipment, and computer 
hardware and software and related items in connection therewith.
2.
Establishment of a Land Registry. (a) The implementation of land title 
establishment procedures in respect of about one million (1,000,000) parcels of land, 
including, inter alia, establishment of a land recordation system and use of 
computerized land registration systems; and (b) provision of office space, furniture 
and filing equipment, and of computer hardware and software in connection therewith.
3.
Land Aerial Photography. (a) The aerial photography of about eighteen thousand 
(18,000) hectares of urban land at scale 1:2,000, 1:4,000 and 1:8,000, and of about 
one million three hundred thousand (1,300,000) hectares of rural land at scale 
1:10,000 and 1:20,000; and (b) acquisition and use of an aircraft equipped with aerial 
photography equipment, and provision of related materials, in connection therewith.
Page  9
Part B:
Technical Assistance
 
1.
Studies. The provision of consultants' services to carry out the following 
studies, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (a) a study for 
improving ANC's organization and management; (b) a study for developing an appropriate 
training program for ANC personnel; (c) a study for preparing a master plan for the 
computerization of ANC's operations; (d) a study defining
the optimum future land policy to be pursued by MOA, which study shall address, inter 
alia, land ownership and transfer principles, limitations on use of agricultural land, 
modalities of land consolidation and minimum holdings, and land environmental 
protection standards; and (e) a study for developing a land law data base for the MOJ 
referred to in Part B (2) (b) below.
2.
Institutional Development. The provision of consultants' services in respect of 
the following institutional development activities, based on terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) preparation of technical instructions and administrative 
procedural manuals for the implementation of the GCEP; (b) implementation of the 
recommendations of the study for improving ANC's organization and management, referred 
to in Part B (1) (a) above; and (c) provision of a land law library for the MOJ 
courts. 
3.
Training Programs. The provision of consultants' services to carry out the 
following training programs, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (a) 
an ANC personnel training program developed pursuant to the study referred to in Part 
B (1) (b) above; and (b) a training program for trainers to strengthen the 
capabilities of the MOJ magistrates assigned to legal disputes arising out of, inter 
alia, the land title establishment procedures referred to in Part A (2) (a) above, and 
for notaries. 
4.
Land Information System. The provision of consultants' services to establish a 
computerized land information system, based on the cadastral maps and related data and 
information referred to in Part A above, and incorporating other pertinent data 
resulting from, inter alia, surveys, census and satellite photography.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1998
through March 1, 2009
1,375,000
 
On September 1, 2009
1,375,000
 
_____________________________
Page  10
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years 
0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods (including vehicles) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (including vehicles) shall be 
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of two million dollars 
($2,000,000) or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods (other than vehicles) in accordance with the 
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of 
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive Bidding
 
Civil works, furniture and sundry items, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of four million dollars ($4,000,000), may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
International Shopping
 
Page  11
Goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of three hundred 
thousand dollars ($300,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to three million dollars ($3,000,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from suppliers from at least three 
(3) different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) or more, and each contract for 
goods (including vehicles) and sundry items estimated to cost the equivalent of two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two (2) conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants: (a) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' 
Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of 
terms of reference, budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) each, or less. In respect of 
each such contract, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its 
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, two (2) conformed copies 
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective evaluation and 
recommendations for award, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract, or the 
contract itself, is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or the 
Consultants' Guidelines, promptly inform the Borrower thereof and state the reasons 
for such determination.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out 
Page  12
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two 
million dollars ($2,000,000), to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after, and to the extent that, the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
Page  13
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
