Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Ripen No. P-4071-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (FSAR) PROJECT
May 10, 1985
Tis dcnnment has a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients ondy in the perfomance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CPAF)  1/.
US$1.0 - CFAF 490
CPAP 1 million - US$2,041
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                       British/US Equivalent
1 meter                   m 3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha) - 0.01 km2 -  2.4711 acres
1 kilometer (km)          -  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  -  0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENEEMA        National Center for Study and Experimentation
of Agricultural Machinery
FONADER        National Rural Development Fund
FSAR           Fonds special d'actions rurales (Rural Development Fund)
MIDEVIV        Food Crop Development Agency
MINAGRI        Ministry of Agriculture
MINMEN         Ministry of Energy and Mines
MINPAT         Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
PMCU           Planning, Management and Control Unit
RDF            Rural Development Fund
SEMRY          Agency for the Promotion and Modernization of Rice
Cultivation, Yagoua
SODECAO        Cocoa Development Company
SODECOTON      Cotton Development Company
SOFSAR         Operational Service of RDF, Maroua
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/  The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of CFAF 50 to
FF1. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OWm  USE ONLY
SECOND RURAL DEVEOPMYENT FUND PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SMMMARY ...........         ..........            (ii)
T.   THE ECONOMY ...............................................    1
II.  BANK GROUP OPEtATIONS IN CAMEOON.  .......          .........    4
III.  THE RURAL DEVELOPNENT SECTOR ..............................     6
A.  Agriculture ...........................................    6
B. Rural Water Supply ....................................    7
C. Bank Group Involvement, Lending Strategy and
Project Rationale                 ...   8
D. The First RDF Project                . . .    8
IV.  THE PROJECT ..............................................       9
A.  Project Objectives and Description          .     .         9
B. Detailed Features of Key Components          .     .        10
1.  Institutional Development .........................   10
2.  Identified Sub-Projects ...........................   11
C. Organization and Management              .       .          12
D.  Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements      . .         13
E. Procurement and Disbursement             .        .         15
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting           .     .        17
G. Benefits and Risks                  ..                      17
V.   LEGAL INSTRUMERTS AN1  AUTHORITY ..........................    18
VI.  RECOMMENDATION ............................................   18
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CAMEOON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNMXY
Borrower:                Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:              Fonds National de D4veloppement Rural (FONADER)
Amount:                  US$25.5 million
Terms:                    Standard IBRD terms
Flow of Loan Proceeds:   US$25.5 million as grant to FONADER's Rural
Development Fund (RDF) account, of which US$22.4
million for appraised sub-projects, US$3.0 million
as line of credit for as yet unidentified sub-
projects, and US$0.1 million for studies.
Project Description:      1. The project would support two important Govern-
ment objectives:
a) strengthening rural development institutions
at national, provincial and village levels;
and
b) improving living conditions and incomes in
rural areas through implementation of
selected high priority rural operations, not
being undertaken under existing projects and
programs and for which no alternative
financing is readily available.
2. To achieve these objectives, the project would
provide financing for:
a) Institutional development, i.e.. the
strengthening of agricultural planning,
project preparation and appraisal capacity
at the regional level; the strengthening of
RDF management at central and regional
levels; three priority studies; and a line
of credit for small-scale, high priority
rural activities to be identified and
designed to complempnt on-going rural devel-
opment programs; and
b) Identifled sub-projects, i.e., rural water
supply (drilling of 1,000 boreholes);
bottomlands development; bullock-fattening;
groundnut marketing and shelling; functional
literacy training; and access roads con-
struction (350 km) and maintenance.



(ili)
ESTIhIIED COSTS                             Local        Foreign        Total
US$ million
Institutional Development
Strengthening of Ag. Planning             0.4           0.8           1.2
Strengthening of RDF Management
- Headquarters                         0.6           1.0           1.6
- SOFSAR                               3.9           5.5           9.4
Priority Studies                          0.4           0.1           0.5
Line of Credit                            3.0            3.0          6.0
Identified Sub-Project
Bottomlands Dev. in the North             0.4           0.4           0.8
Rural Water Supply                        6.1           11.2         17.3
Bullock-Fattening                         0.0           0.0           0.0
Groundnut Marketing and Sbelling          0.3           0.3           0.6
Functional Literacy Training              0.2           0.4           0.6
Bottomlands Dev. Around Yaounde           0.3           0.2           0.5
Access Roads in the SODECAO Area          2.0           2.0           4.0
Total Base Costs                            17.6           24.9         42.5
Contingenices
- Physical                               1.0            1.8          2.8
- Price                                  6.2           5.1          1i.3
Total Costs                                 24.8           31.8         56.6
Less : Operating Costs for the
first RDF Project during
Execution                             5.9           6.3          12.2
Total Project Costs                         18.9           25.5         44.4
(oi which taxes)                         (3.3)          -            (3.3)
Total Financing Required                    18.9           25.5         44.4
FINANCING PLAN
Government                               18.1           -            18.1
Beneficiaries                             0.8           -             0.8
IBRD                                      -            25.5          25.5
Total                                       18.9           25.5         44.4



(iv)
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT (US$ million)
1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992
Annual          1.6        5.8      6.1       6.0      4.0      1.7       0.3
Zualative       1.6        7.4    -13.5      19.5     23.5     25.2      25.5
ECONOMIC RATE OF RErURN: 22Z on directly productive sub-projects (repre-
senting 191 of project costs).
Benefits and Risks:       1. The most significant benefits would be the
further strengthening of Government's capabili-
ty to prepare and execute small-scale rural
projects; the creation of a sound institutional
and policy framework for rural water supply;
and substantial benefits from directly-
productive components. In addition, the
village water component alone would provide
some 350,000 beneficiaries with clean drinking
water.
2. The project has two sources of risk:
a) 4nadequate management both in RDF and in
sub-project executing agencies; to reduce
this risk, agencies have been carefully
selected on the basis of their satisfactory
past performance and would receive technical
assistance as appropriate; and
b) loss of momentum in formulation and imple-
mentation of a rural water policy; to avoid
this, technical assistance would be provided
to the responsible sectoral institution,
regular exchanges of views would take place
with the Bank and disbursement against
borehole drilling and pump supply contracts
would be conditional upon adoption of
satisfactory measures.
APPRAISAL REPORT:        No. 4780-CM
MAP:                      IBRD 17362
May 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC 07 CAMEROON
FOR A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (CSAR) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$25.5 million to help
finance a second rural development fund (RDF) project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years. including a 5-year grace period, at the standard variable
interest rate.  Its proceeds would be made available to RDF on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled 'United Republic of Cameroon-Economic Memorandum"
(Report No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1980. Since then, several economic and sector missions have visited Cameroon.
Their major findings are incorporated in the following paragraphs.  Annex I
provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diverse countries, with a wide
variety of climatic and ecological zones, ethnic groups languages, and tradi-
tional cultures. It has an estimated population of 9.3 million (1983) and
covers an area of 475,000 =a2, about the same as Spain. The overall popula-
tion density is low, but there are several densely-populated regions in the
west and the extreme north, for example. The main centers of population and
economic activity are widely separated, making the development and maintenance
of an adequate transportation network vital but also costly. Cameroon's main
opportunities for development lie in the expansion of agricultural, livestock
and forestry production; the exploitation of energy and mineral resources; and
the processing of agricultural, forestry and mineral products for domestic
consumption and export. Cameroon became an oil producer in 1978 and total
production is estimated at 7.6 million tons in 1984. Most of the oil is
exported as crude; only about 1.2 million tons are refined in Cameroon, to
meet domestic demand.
4.        Basically an agricultural economy at independence in 1960, Cameroon
has experienced rapid rural-urban migration, and over one-third of the popula-
tion now lives in cities or towns. Douala, the major industrial center and
port city, has an estimated population of about one million; Yaounde, the
capital, is the second-largest city, with an estimated 500,000 residents.
Apart from these two large cities, however, there are several other urban
areas of significant size; these secondary centers play important roles in the
economies of the various regions.
5.        The stated development philosophy of the Government of Cameroon is
"planned liberalism", characterized by five-year indicative investment plans
and a mixture of private and public ownership. Market forces are tempered by



-2-
extensive Government regulation in areas such as price control, investment
incentt)es, interest rates and credit allocation. In general, the Govern-
ment's macroeconomic policies have been prudent and Cameroon's CGP per capita
(US$800 in 1983) is one of the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. In addition,
the country has enjoyed exceptional economic and social stability, in line
with the Government's emphasis on balanced regional development and strong
central authority.
6.        The past few years have been a period of transition.  In November
1982, after almost 25 years in power, President Ahmadou Ahidjo resigned and
his constitutional successor, Prime Minister Paul Biya, became President.
President Biya consolidated his power in September 1983 when he was elected
president of the sole political party and in January 1984 vhen he was con-
firmed as President of Cameroon in a national election. However, the countrv
was shaken in April 1984 when a group of soldiers launched an unsuccessful
coup attempt. Over this past year, Mr. Biya has promised a more democratic
style of government, more rigor in the management of public funds and greater
social justice. Tne new Government is committed to economic liberalization,
although still within the context of "planned liberalism". It has also
endorsed the objectives of preserving a strong agricultural base, maintaining
a high degree of food self-sufficiency, and building up social and transport
infrastructure, via a moderately enlarged investment program. It has ex-
pressed strong interest in improving the efficiency of state enterprises,
including, in some cases, through privatization.
Economic and Social Developments
i.        Over the past two decades the Government has managed to establish
favorable conditions for accelerated economic growth and fiscal stability.
Average growth was sluggish in the 1960s and early 1970s at 3.7% per annum,
but accelerated to 8.6% per annum in the second half of the 1970s and is
estimated at about 7% for the first half of the 1980s. Investment, which Was
at a low 10% of GDP in the early 1960s, grew to an average of about 20% in the
second half of the 1970s and to 26% in 1983. This growth in investment was
made possible by the gradual easing of constraints to absorptive capacity, the
increase in domestic savings and more recently, oil resources. Before the
beginning of oil exports in 1978-79, Cameroon registered small trade deficits,
though modest surpluses were recorded in 1973-74 and 1977-78. The small
deficits on the current account were amply offset by capital account flows,
mainly public borrowing. However, despite a tenfold increase in public
indebtedness in current terms during the past decade, the debt service ratio
has consistently remained under 152.
8.        Prior to 1978, Cameroon's economy, apart from a small manufacturing
sector concentrated in heavily protected import substitution activities, was
based essentially on agriculture. Agricultural products accounted for 71% of
1978 export earnings, with coffee and cocoa alone accounting for 53%. Howev-
er, oil production began in 1978 and it rapidly assumed a dominant position in
total merchandise exports (63% in 1983) as well as representing an important
fraction of total GDP (13% in 1983). The vast majority of the labor force,
however, remains in agriculture - 75% according to the most recent estimate.



-3-
9.        Although steady progress has been made in the well-being of the
population over the past two decades, much remains to be done in the social
sectors. Enrollments increased considerably at all levels of the educational
system, but its quality and efficiency deteriorated. Health-related indica-
tors are on the low side, considering Cameroon's overall level of economic
development. Life expectancy at birth is a low 53 years, the result of a
still high infant mortality rate. Inadequate health coverage, poor access to
water supply, lack of sanitation services in crowded urban areas, poor nutri-
tion and health practices are the main reasons for this high rate.
10.       In 1981, about 40% of the rural population was considered to live in
absolute poverty, i.e., with an annual per capita income of less than US$105
(1981). This may in part explain the heavy rural out-migration to the cities
of Yacunde and Douala, where average incomes are considerably higher than in
the countryside, in part fueled by the expenditure of increasing oil revenues
giving rise to expectations of formal sector employment under favorable
conditions. In actual fact, however, conditions in these cities are not much
more favorable, with one quarter of their population classified as absolutely
poor.
Development Prospects and Issues
1i.       The basic issue for Cameroon is to adjust to the oil and post-oil
eras. Despite a variety of other mineral resources, it is unlikely that their
exploitation will make up for the expected decline of oil production beginning
in the late 1980s. Oil revenues offer a window of opportunity to finance
needed investments and introduce policies aimed at preparing the economy for
the post-oil era for example, measures aimed at increasing productivity in
agriculture. On the other hand, lack of caution in using oil revenues could
have highly disruptive effects on the economic and social fabric of the
country. So far caution has prevailed. However, pressures for an accelerated
improvement of living conditions are mounting.
12.       In the longer term, the major issue is to cope with a fast-expanding
population. Although its growth rate, currently estimated at 3.2% p.a. is not
uncommon in the regional context, it is accelerating, and Cameroon's popula-
tion is expected to double in 22 years. The urban population would triple to
9 million. Providing meaningful employment opportunities to a sharply expand-
ing urban labor force is and will remain a major challenge for the Cameroonian
*       authorities.  At present only 251 of the labor force is employed outside
agriculture, 10% in industry and 15% in services. If large-scale unemployment
is to be avoided in cities, by the year 2000 about 2 million jobs would have
to be added to the existing 750,000 outside agriculture.
13.       The Government's major objectives in the Fifth Plan period (1981-86)
are to maintain food self-sufficiency, improve income and living conditions in
rural areas as a means of slowing down migration to cities, provide health
services and adequate drinking water to a vastly expanded portion of the
population and greatly increase the supply of well-trained Cameroonians.
These objectives are consistent with Cameroon's present requirements. The
projected annual GDP growth rate of 7% over the Fifth Plan period appears
comfortably attainable.



-4-
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
14.       Total public external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from
US$371 million at the end of 1976 to US$1.9 billion at the end of 1983. Debt
service payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to US$219 million in 1983,
Awhile exports increased from US$700 million in 1976 to about US$1.7 billion in
1983. However, Cameroon's traditionally modest reliance on external financing
has been followed, during the oil era of increased financial independence, by
diminished recourse to external borrowing and some prepayment of foreign
loans. Gross disbursements against public and publicly guaranteed external
borrowing have declined sharply from a peak of US$564 million in 1980 to
US$163 million in 1983. Net transfers have fallen from a peak of US$389
millions in 1979 to minus US$57 million in 1983, when debt service payments
exceeded gross disbursements. Rising interest rates, a hardening of average
loan terms and the appreciation of the dollar have increased Cameroon's debt
service ratio somewhat since 1980. However, the debt service ratio appears
likely to remain below 15% for the rest of the decade, even allowing for a
continued decline in external lending to Cameroon on concessional terms.
Cameroon is basically creditworthy.
15.       The public enterprise sector is becoming a major burden for the
Government, and financial support of weak or failing enterprises now amounts
to at least CFAF 100 billion, well over one-third of Cameroon's net oil
revenues. It has become clear to the Government that this situation could not
be allowed to continue, and the Government has now embarked with the Bank on
what will probably be a major effort in the rehabilitation of the sector,
concentrating both on the economic policy environment ultimately responsible
for the difficulties of the sector as well as on rehabilitating, liquidating
or divesting individual enterprises.
PART II - B4NK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
16.       Bank/IDA commitments in Cameroon as of March 31, 1985, amounted to
US$793.4 million equivalent and covered 44 projects: 21 in agriculture, 13 in
transportation, 3 in education, 3 in public utilities, 1 small and medium-
scale enterprise project, 2 technical assistance.projects and 1 urban project
(Annex II). Transport and agriculture account respectively for about 442 and
43% of these commitments. IFC had invested in seven enterprises, with total
net loan / equity commitments of US$12.4 million.
17.       Performance in project implementation is, on average, good in the
transport sector, mixed in agriculture and mediocre in other sectors. The
Government has generally shown willingness to collaborate with the Bank in
finding solutions, but implementation delays and setbacks have occurred,
notably over the last year in the wake of recent political changes. In
particular, the overall disbursement rate, which used to compare favorably
with that of most other countries, has slowed down due to administrative
bottlenecks, notably in the central procurement agency. Technical assistance
to help streamline procurement procedures is being arranged.
18.       The Bank's initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government's development efforts in three main directions: (i)



-5-
strengthening and extending the road and rail trunk systems and improving the
port of Douala; (ii) raising agricultural output and exports; and (iii)
improving education. Until 1975. apart from one water supply project, Bank
lending was concentrated entirely in the transport, agriculture and education
sectors. Since 1975, Bank lending has diversified into forestry, small- and
medium-scale industry, urban development, technical assistance and telecommu-
nicatious. For the immediate future, projects are being prepared in agricul-
ture to support the Government's objectives of increasing smallholders'
productivity and improving the quality of rural life, in transport to upgrade,
expand and maintain the network (Highway VI Project), in urban development to
build up the local government' capabilities to cope with fast growth,  in
education / manpower training to support the demands of increasing public and
private investment, and in health for the under-serviced rural areas
19.       In view of the expected decline of oil revenues in the late 1980s,
the Government of Cameroon would like the Bank to maintain an active assis-
tance program as: (i) a way of ensuring a smooth and continued flow of re-
sources for development; (ii) a vehicle for technical assistance in project
design and implementation; (iii) a guarantee of impartiality in providing
guidance; and (iv) a source of advice for policy reform. The rationale for
maintaining a sizeable Bank program lies in the need to meet the country's
increased and more complex requirements for development assistance. In order
to ensure productive use of its oil revenues and to prepare for the post-oil
era, the Government must make critical decisions concerning the size and
composition of the domestic investment program and the removal of the major
development bottlenecks. The Bank's major objectives are to strengthen the
Government's policy making, investment planning and implementing capabilities,
promote private initiatives and reduce the role of the parapublic sector in
the economy, develop the country's human resource base and improve the living
conditions of lower income groups.
20.       The Bank's objectives will increasingly be pursued through sectoral
approaches combining lending, intensified economic and sector work and techni-
cal assistance to the central and technical ministries. The Bank is in the
process of preparing and discussing with the Government strategy papers for
the major sectors with a view to reaching broad agreement on a macroeconomic
and sectoral policy framework. This dialogue is expected to pave the way
toward a more sectoral approach to lending in support of well-defined Govern-
ment programs. Key topics for discussion will be the role of the public
enterprise sector, trade liberalization and pricing policies, the pace and
pattern of resource development, skilled manpower constraints and needs, and
administrative reform. Although the Government is keen on moving towards
sectoral approaches, differences of opinion on their content might delay their
formulation and implementation. Nevertheless, for the years ahead, the nature
of the Bank's involvement is expected to shift towards fewer but larger
sectoral operations.
21.       Disbursements of official development assistance during the second
half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45 million a year, mostly in the form
of grants. France provided most of the assistance. In the 1970s, foreign aid
increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in the form of
grants. Bank and IDA financing amounted to about 23Z of total disbursements
and the Bank Group became the major source of public assistance. Cofinancing



-6-
has been featured in 22 of the 44 Bank-financed projects and is being actively
sought for several projects under consideration to improve aid coordination
and support a gradual shift to private financing.
22.       Cameroon's borrowing from private sources accounted for 31.5Z of
external financing in 1982, up from only 11X in 1967-69. Public external debt
outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1982, amounted to US$1.9 billion,
8.2% of which was in the form of Bank loans and 8.5% in IDA credits. Bank
loans in 1982 accounted for 6.4% of public external debt service and IDA
credits for 0.7%. By 1985, Bank loans and IDA credits are projected to
account for about 26% of debt outstanding and about 14% of debt service.
PART III - THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
A.  Agriculture
23.       Background.  Agriculture has traditionally been the cornerstone of
the Cameroonian economy, directly accounting, until 1978, for over 75% of
employment, 70% of export earnings, and 35% of tax revenues. The sector
exhibits considerable regional variety of output, including livestock, large
forestry resources and a range of industrial and food crops. Food and bever-
age processing is dominant in manufacturing, and agriculture plays a major
role in trade and transport.
24.       Government's policy.  As indicated in para. 8, the advent of oil in
1978 has triggered a rapid decline in the relative share of the agricultural
sector in the country's GDP and exports. Although these trends are expected
to continue for some time, Government wishes to avoid the decline of agricul-
ture experienced in other oil-producing countries. Its sectoral strategy aims
inter alia at: (i) achieving food self-sufficiency despite growing urbaniza-
tion; (ii) preparing for the post-oil era by preserving various sources of
export earnings and the economic viability of the regions; (iii) slowing down
the urban drift by improving rural incomes and living conditions; and (iv)
decentralizing management of agricultural development programs. In support of
these objectives, the Fifth Developmen. Plan (1981-86) proposed to devote to
the sector about 24% of total planned investment (against an actual 11% under
the previous Plan). Such an increase has required a considerable strengthen-
ing of the capacity of regional institutions to prepare, appraise and imple-
ment sound projects. Additionally, it is important that the large operations
included in the fairly rigid five year planning horizon be complemented by
smaller scale, quickly implemented interventions to meet urgent priority
needs. The project would address those needs, while promoting the diversifi-
cation of output and providing for rural amenities.
25.       Instituttons   Under the Government's policy, implementation of
agricultural development is generally carried out by parastatal and Government
agencies, while the scrvices of the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI) focus on
policy-making, planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation.
26.       Among the development agencies, some are crop and/or area specific:
they include SODECAO, responsible for smallholder cocoa production and general
development in the Center and South Provinces; SODECOTON and SEHRY,



- 7 -
responsible respectively for cotton and rice production and integrated
development in the Northern Provinces. Other agencies are specialized along
functional lines: examples are MIDEVIV (for fooderops, seed multiplication and
vegetable development), and CENEEMA (for testing and extension of agricultural
machinery and equipment, including intermediate technology and training of
mechanics).
27.       The broadest mandate was given to the FONADER (National Fund for
Rural Development), which was established in 1973 to organize and supervise
both rural development progrsms and agricultural credit operations. FONADER
is legally a separate financial entity, under the tutelage of MINAGRI, but
with administrative autonomy. It operates from its Yaounde headquarters but
has been decentralizing its activities since 1978. A separate directorate was
created in 1977 to assume responsibility for the First Rural Development Fund
(RDF) project. It has operational autonomy and keeps RDF accounts, which are
separate from other FONADER's accounts. The RDF Division is based in the
capital but has an operational branch in Maroua (SOFSAR). This satisfactory
arrangement would continue under the second project. FONADER still relies on
other Government field services for supervision and execution of activities
for which it provides direct and credit financing.
28.       By contrast with these development agencies, which have financial
and operational autonomy, the services of the MINAGRI at provincial and
departmental levels are hampered by insufficient and inadequately trained
personnel, and by the lack of coherent work programs and the means to imple-
ment them. These weaknesses would be addressed under the proposed project.
29.       A program for financing urgently needed, small and diversified rural
investments not undertaken under existing projects and programs is essential
to complement on-going activities by the rural development agencies which do
not have adequate discretionary funds in their budget. To that effect, the
first Rural Development Fund Project created a mechanism under which funds are
flexibly provided for small sub-projects (of a directly-productive, infra-
structural or social nature) aimed at removing development bottlenecks in the
rural areas.
B.   Rural Water Supply
30.       Policy and institutional framework.  The rural water supply sector
lacks a coherent national policy framework providing for: (i) the efficient
functioning of existing waterpoints; (ii) self-financing mechanisms to ensure
replicability and eventual country-wide coverage; and (iii) rational long term
development. Institutional responsibilities are split between three minis-
tries, i.e., the Ministry of Planning for planning, and the Ministries of
Agriculture, and Mines and Energy (MINMEN) for construction, operation and
maintenance. For lack of planning and coordination, this arrangement is not
satisfactory. The Government has been concerned with this situation and has
just established a National Water Committee, a high level interministerial
body, with the dual mandate of: (i) developing a rural water policy based on
the principle of beneficiaries' contribution to the operation, maintenance and
renewal costs of rural water installations; and (ii) planning, coordiuating on
and supervising all future rural water interventions. The proposed project



-8-
would support the technical vork of the Comittee and serve as a vehicle to
implement its policy decisions (para. 50).
C.   Bank Group Involvement, Lending Strategy and Project Rationale
31.       Since 1967 the Bank Group has been Involved in 21 projects In the
agricultural sector with a total of US$337.4 million in loans and credits.
While earlier lending concentrated on plantation projects, In the 1970. it
shifted to regional integrated export/food crop projects combined with rural
infrastructure. Future lending is expected to follow a more sectoral ap-
proach, with operations aimed at addressing single sets of issues identified
as major bottlenecks to achieving production gains (e.g., research, extension,
credit). With the absorptive capacity of Cameroon to implement agricultural
projects being increasingly stretched, while alternative sources of financing
are available to the Government, Bank strategy is focusing less on resource
transfer than on institution building, both to prepare and execute new
projects, and on deepening a policy dialogue conducive to the int_oduction of
policy reforms needed in the present context. These include improvements in
incentives policies, a better gearing of support services towards farmers
needs, increased local participation in the operation and maintenance of
small-scale rural investments, and the establishment of a sound institutional
framework. The project would support the Government's objectives (para. 24)
and would be in line with the Bank's strategy for the sector. The Bank would
be well placed to finance it, having generated the underlying philosophy of
developing intermediary financial institutions such as RDF and supported the
creation and initial operations of the Fund under the first project.
D.   The First RDF Project
32.       The global objective of the first RDF Project (Cr. 723-CM) was to
help create within FONADER an original intermediary financing institution
capable of catering for high priority sub-projects identified as bottlenecks
to rural development and not taken care of through other agencies or programs.
Such a local capability is essential to enable Government and the internation-
al donor community to address those needs adequately. Under the Project, the
national and regional institutions involved in agricultural planning were to
be strengthened. A number of sub-projects were identified, appraised and
costed, and funds were provided for unidentified activities to be prepared
during project execution. The total project cost was US$10.6 million. The
Credit, amounting to US$7 million, was approved by the Board on June 30, 1977
and became effective on January 30, 1978.
33.       Despite initial delays in execution, the Project has largely met its
institution-building objective and has achieved a satisfactory physical
performance. The RDF Directorate responsible within FONADER for carrying out
the Project, was built into a reasonably strong and generally well-organized
institution, both in terms of administrative and financial management. By
project completion, the rural water program, bottomland development and credit
for vegetable gardening were 100Z completed. Some shortfalls are expected on
the small dam construction (40Z of appraisal objective) due to insufficient
geological surveys and on cattle fattening loans (55%) because of inadequate
credit supervision. Sub-projects identified and financed by RDF under the
project were concentrated in vegetable gardening. A lesson was learned from



the difficulties encountered in creating a regional agricultural planning and
small project preparation capacity: due to the unsatisfactory performance of
Government's central services, under the first project RDI had to extend its
role beyond that of supplier and controller of funds and became too deeply
involved in project execution. Under the proposed project, these services
would be provided by development agencies with well-proven implementing
capacity, allowing RDF to focus on planning, preparing, funding and supervis-
ing small projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The Second RDF Project would follow the basic philosophy of the
first (para. 32). In line with Government's strategy, which aims at nation-
wide coverage of an RDF-type mechanism. the project area would be extended
from four departments in the north to cover the three northern provinces, and
would also include some priority intervention areas in Center and South
Provinces. The selection of these areas was based not only on their urgent
development needs, but also on the presence of competent sub-project executing
agencies to ensure that RDF could operate as a financial intermediary.
Identified sub-projects for RDF financing were for the most part prepared by
Cameroonian institutions or with technical assistance and under terms of
reference drafted by, or in consultation with, two Bank's (pre-appraisal)
missions (November 1982 and March 1983). These joint efforts have greatly
contributed towards the evolution of solid, well conceived sub-projects, all
of which are judged within the executive capability of the respective agen-
cies. Appraisal took place in May/June 1983. Negotiations were completed in
Yaound6 on April 25, 1985. The Cameroonian delegation was led by H.E. Paul
Pondi, Cameroon Ambassador to the U.S. The staff appraisal report (No.
4780-CM, dated May 10, 1985) is being circulated separately.
A.   Project Objectives and Description
35.       The second RDF project would support two important Government
objectives:
(a)  the medium- to long-term objective of institution building at
national, provincial and village levels; and
(b)  the short-term objective of improving living conditions and incomes
in rural areas through flexible implementation of selected high-
priority rural interventions, which are not undertaken under
existing projects or programs and for which there is no alternative
financing.
36.       To achieve these objectives, the project would provide financing
for:
(a)  Institutional development, covering:
(i) the strengthening of MINAGRI's regional agricultural planning,
project preparation and appraisal capacity;



- 10 -
(ii)  the strengthening of RDF managment at the central and regional
levels;
(iii) the execution of three priority studies; and
(iv)  the establishment of a line of credit for small, high priority
rural activities to be identified under the project, to comple-
ment on-going rural development programs.
(b)  Identifled sub-projects, covering:
(i)  the drilling of about 1,000 boreholes for rural water supply;
(ii)  the development of about 1,000 ha of bottomlands for rice and
sorghum cultivation under partial water control ln the northern
region;
(iii) a bullock-fattening scheme for about 2,000 farmers;
(iv)  the support of groundnut marketing and shelling;
(v)  functional literacy training for village groups;
(vi)  the pilot development of about 20 ha of bottomlands for vegeta-
ble production around Yaounde; and
(vii) the construction and maintenance of about 350 km of access
roads in the SODECAO area (Center and South Provinces).
B.  Detailed Features of Key Components
1.  Institutional Development
37.       Strengthening of agricultural planning and RDF management.  One of
the project's most important long-term contributions would be the strengthen-
ing of national agricultural institutional capability through identification,
preparation and appraisal by MINAGRI of a continuous stream of high priority
sub-projects for RDF financing. The Bank-financed Technical Cooperation
Project (Cr. 1168-CM) aims at reinforcing MINAGRI's capacity to do this at the
central level through provision of technical assistance and training. The
proposed project would complement these efforts at the provincial level
through the international recruitment of two agro-economists with qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to the Bank (6 man-years) (Section 3.03(a) of
the dr^ft Loan Agreement, hereafter L.A.), and through the identification,
formal overseas training, and in-service training of six qualified national
agro-economists. These staff would be posted as MINAGRI's provincial delega-
tions (Yaound6 and Caroua) and would be responsible, in cooperation with
existing development structures, for preparing future sub-projects. To enable
RDF to cope with its increased responsibilities (para. 44), its management
would be strengthened through the international recruitment of a financial
controller and an agricultural rural engineer to be based at headquarters and
of a senior accountant, and a workshop manager to be based in Marona (Section
2.02 of the draft Project Agreement, hereafter P.A.). Because of their key



- 11 -
role in project implementation, the financial controller and the senior
accountant would have assumed their functions as a loan effectiveness condi-
tion (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft L.A.).
38.       The project would finance consultancy services for three priority
studies, covering vegetable marketing in the North, feasibility of a rural
development project in the Adamaoua region, and the training of blacksmiths in
the rural areas.
39.       A line of credit, (totalling US$b.0 million) would be operated as a
flexible mechanism for the allocation of funds to: (i) directly-productive
small sub-projects, such as bottomland development, vegetable, and seed
production; (ii) production-support sub-projects such as small infrastructures
(bridges, submersible river crossings, field stores, rural water points); and
(iii) other priority needs (applied research studies, and training). To be
eligible for Bank financing under the project, sub-projects, expected to be
concentrated in the Extreme North, North, Adamaoua, Center and South Provinces
(US$5 million out of 6 million) should not cost more than US$750,000 each.
Full supporting documentation would have to be submitted to Bank's approval ex
ante for sub-projects costing more than US$150,000, and ex post for others.
Directly-productive sub-projects would have to show an estimated economic rate
of return (ERR) of at least 15%, and no more than US$3.0 million of the line
of credit could be utilized for sub-projects for which no ERR can be calculat-
ed. These criteria were designed to increase the training opportunities of
local staff, while promoting a focus on high priority interventions and an
appropriate sectoral and regional balance. Assurances that they wou ld be
complied with were obtained at negotiations (Schedule 2 to the draft P.A.).
2.   Identified Sub-Projects
40.       Rural water supply.  The single most important identitied sub-
project would be the drilling of about 1,000 boreholes for rural water supply,
including installation of hand pumps, in the drought stricken northern prov-
inces, where almost half of all water points are dry for several months of the
year. Clean drinking water would be provided year-round to about 350,000
villagers, covering about 25Z of the most urgent needs. Because of implemen-
tation difficulties encountered by Government's central services during the
first project, borehole drilling would be undertaken by a contractor selected
under international competitive bidding on the basis of a turnkey contract.
This contract would include borehole drilling and testing, construction of
wellheads, pump installation and testing, on-site training of village pump
caretakers and maintenance during a one-year warranty period. Operation and
maintenance would then be entrusted to caretakers designated by village water
committees and supported by maintenance brigades initially financed under the
project.
41.       This 1irge component, to which Government attaches the highest
priority, would be the vehicle towards establishing a satisfactory policy
framework and a permanent solution for the nationwide organization and manage-
ment of rural water supply. Under the project, the National Water Committee
(para. 30) would receive 18 man-months of internationally recruited, highly
specialized medium-term consultancy to help define and elaborate a rural water
policy and organize the coordination and supervision of all rural water



- 12 -
interventions. Periodic exchanges of views on the Committee's recommendationa
would take place with the Bank. The consultants, whose terms of reference
were agreed upon at negotiations, would be recruited before December 31, 1985
(Sections 4.02 and 3.03(d) of the draft L.A.). In addition, a strong communi-
ty service, attached to the RDF Operational Service in the Northern Province
(SOESAR), would be developed to organize the villagers' financial and human
participation in the establishment, maintenance, and replacement of rural
water points (para. 47).
42.       Feeder roads.  The inadequacy of the rural roads network has been a
major obstacle to agricultural development in the cocoa-growing Center and
South provinces. To overcome that constraint, SODECAO (para. 26) has been
efficiently conducting, through a specialized unit, a limited program of rural
roads construction and maintenance. The project would provide for: (i)
creation and equipment of an additional feeder roads construction brigade,
with technical support from SODECAO's roads construction division; and (ii) a
five year program of construction and maintenance. Some 350 km of priority
roads were identified during project preparation; sections to be included in
the first year program have been selected and preparatory work (detailed
survey, layout) is underway. Construction would be to standard design crite-
ria satisfactory to the Bank, at an average cost of US$12,000/km. Subsequent
maintenance would be assumed and financed by SODECAO.
43.       Other identified sub-projects.  The other identified sub-projects
would aim at: (i) exploiting the potential of Cameroonian agriculture towards
further diversification (bottomlands and bullock fattening); (ii) alleviating
the marketing constraints facing an increasing groundnut production in the
north; and (iii) facilitating cotton-marketing by village groups through
functional literacy programs in the north.
C.   Organization and Management
44.       A total of 560 man-months of long-term technical assistance, (in-
cluding 252 for RDF) plus 41 man-months of short-term consultancies would be
provided to achieve the project's institution-building objectives. RDF's
principal responsibilities under the project would be: (i) monitoring, review
of sub-project proposals and subsequent supervision and evaluation; (ii)
administration, channelling and accounting of the funds to finance sub-
projects; and (iii) advice to sub-project executing agencies on the prepara-
tion ot their annual work programs and budgets, as well as progress reports.
Under the first Project, the RDF Directorate within FONADER has demonstrated
its ability to provide financing and accounting services for sub-projects.
Therefore, with the proposed strengthening (para. 37), RDF management would be
able to manage and supervise the increased financial and administrative
portfolio of the second project. The annual work programs to be reviewed by
the Bank would cover training aspects aimed at building RDF's institutional
capability to a level enabling it to handle a third project which would
consist solely of a line of credit for unidentified projects. As under the
first Project, RDF staff would be exclusively concerned with the carrying out
ot the second project.
45.       The agencies chosen to implement the identified sub-projects (SOFSAR
for rural water and the bullock-fattening scheme; SEMRY and MIDEVIV,



- 13 -
respectively for boctomland development in the north and near Yaounde;
SODECOTON for groundnut marketing and functional literacy training, and
SODECAO for feeder roads) have been carefully selected for their technical and
financial management competence. The sub-projects would be executed on the
basis of operational agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,to be entered
between FONADER/RDF and the respective agencies by December 31, 1985 (Section
2.01(b) of the draft P.A.). The agreements would define in detail the
respective roles of the entities concerned, time frame of execution, and
methods of financing. As under the first Project, SOFSAR would represent RDF
vis-a-vis the executing agencies in the north (chiefly SEMRY and SODECOTON).
46.       Day-to-day management of the borehole drilling sub-contract
(para. 40) would be entrusted to a Project Planning, Management and Control
Unit (PMCU), to be attached to the SOFSAR; PMCU, which would be responsible
for administrative, technical and financial supervision of tne sub-contract.
would be staffed with an integrated team of qualified and experienced
Cameroonians, backed-up and further trained on-the-job by technical assistance
(about 200 man-months) specialized in geophysics, hydrology and drilling.
Overall supervision would be entrusted to the National Water Committee. As
the PMCU is considered critical for the sound implementation of the sub-
project, its creation and the appointment of the engineering consultants would
be a loan effectiveness condition (Section 6.01(c) of the draft L.A.). PMCU
would submit yearly work programs and budgets to the Bank for comments and to
MINAGRI and the National Water Committee for approval (Section 2.01(d)(ii) of
the draft P.A.).
47.       To ensure beneficiaries' labor and financial participation in
maintenance and replacement of the water points, a sensitization campaign
would be conducted by RDF and the specially trained community development
service, in parallel with the siting of the boreholes, and before drilling
begins. For each selected village, a village water committee would be estab-
lished. to sign with RDF individual contractual arrangements specifying: (i)
the village's obligation to designate a caretaker for the day-to-day mainte-
nance and surveillance of the installed pump; and (ii) RDF's obligation to
train the caretaker for routine maintenance and to ensure, with assistance
trom MINAGRI's and MINMEN's rural engineering services, regular inspections
and major repairs. RDF would keep for each village a separate water account.
To help RDF meet its obligations, a strong pump maintenance and repair system
would be set up at the village, sub-district, departmental and regional
levels. Although details may vary depending on the precise policy and insti-
tutional framework adopted by the Government, an understanding was reached at
negotiations that these overall arrangements would be followed.
D.   Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
48.       Total costs of the RDF program over a five-year period, are estimat-
ed at US$56.6 million (end-1984 prices). These include continued operating
costs associated with programs started under the first project of US$12.2
million. Total investment and incremental costs associated with the second
project are US$44.4 million, of which US$3.3 million represent identifiable
taxes and duties. The net-of-tax project cost is therefore US$41.1 million.
The project would be exempt from taxes and duties on imported items. The
foreign exchange camponent (US$25.5 million) is about 57% of total cost.



- 14 -
Total contingencies amount to 33Z of base costs. Physical contingencies of
OZ have been applied to all costs except salaries and technical assistance.
Price contingencies over the five-year implementation period are based on an
average rate of increase of 8% for FY86 and 91 annually thereafter.
49.       The proposed Bank loan of US$25.5 million would cover the total
foreign exchange component, while the domestic contribution (US$18.1 million
from Government and US$0.8 million from beneficiaries) would cover all local
costs. The Bank loan would be made to Government for 20 years, including a
5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. Together
with Government's contribution, it would be deployed as follows for: (a)
institution building: US$11.3 million (Bank : US$5.6 million) including
US$4.7m for strengthening the regional planning capacity and RDF management
(Bank : US$2.5 million); US$6.0 million for the line of credit (Bank : US$3.0
million); and US$0.6 million for studies (Bank : US$0.1 million); and (b)
identified sub-projects: US$33.0 million (Bank : US$19.9 million) including
US$24.0 million for rural water supply (Bank : US$17 million); US$5.6 million
for feeder roads construction (Bank : US$1.3 million); US$1.9 million for
bottomland developments (Bank : US$0.7 million); US$1.5 million for the func-
tional literacy groundnut marketing and bullock-fattening sub-projects (Bank
US$0.9 million). All funds would be passed on to FONADER's RDF account as
grants. As a condition of effectiveness, Government would deposit CFAF 400
million (US$0.8 million) out of its contribution into a RDF II project account
(Section 6.01(a) of the draft L.A.). These funds would serve as initial
working capital covering about four months of expenditures for all identified
sub-projects and would be in addition to the standard three-months advance in
budgeted expenditures. The project account would be replenished quarterly
thereafter (Section 3.02(b) of the draft L.A.).
50.       Cost recovery and credit schemes.
(a) Rural watai works. It is expected that during the first year of the
project the National Water Committee would develop proposals for a
cost-recovery policy providing that at least the cost of operation
and routine maintenance of rural water points is met from the
beneficiaries, with Government financing the initial investment aud
pump renewal. Various possible collection mechanisms (e.g. direct
contribution, communal tax system) were envisaged during project
preparation, and will be revieswed by the Committee with technical
support financed under the project. For the longer term, the
Government intends to i3urther progress towards coverage of renewal
costs from the beneficiaries. Adoption of measures, satisfactory to
the Bank, to implement a policy embodying these principles in the
project area would be a condition of disbursement against the
borehole drilling and pump supply contracts (Schedule 1, para. 3(b)
of the draft L.A.).
(b) Bottomland development. As under previous projects (SEMRY I and II,
Cr. 302 and 763-CM), SENRY would, over 12 years, recover investment
and operating costs, without interest, from the beneficiaries of
bottomlands developed in north for rice and sorg'r  cultivation
(Section 4.05 (b) of the draft L.A.). For the bottomlands developed
around Yaounde for vegetable growing, given the innovative nature of



- 15 -
the sub-project, beneficiaries could not be asked to incur financial
risks until the viability of the operation has been demonstrated.
Only 50% of investment costs would therefore be recovered at full
development (project year 3). If this pilot phase were successful,
the percentage could be raised with a view to eventually reaching
full recovery. Maintenance costs of the bottomlands would be fully
borne by the beneficiaries.
(c) The bullock-fattening scheme and bottomland developments would
involve the provision of credit to farmers for the purchase of
inputs for an amount of US$0.3 million, at an interest rate of IOZ.
Because of the small amount involved, this component would not be a
good vehicle to rationalize interest rate policy in Cameroon and
would be entirely financed by Government.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
51.       All goods, works and services would be procured following Bank
guidelines. Contracts for US$150,000 or more totalling about US$18.2 million
(Bank : US$15.2 million) would be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for goods (except for
pumps) below US$150,000 (total: about US$2.1 million; Bank : US$1.6 million)
would be awarded through local competitive bidding procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below, with amounts financed by the Bank loan shown in parentheses.



- 16 -
ARMMS MND MODS OF POCUR
(USe Uhllio'
Total
project
Terms to be Procured             ICB          LCB     Others       N.A. *        costs
Civil Works
- Buildings                                0.9                                  0.9
(0.7)                               (0.7)
- Boreholes                   15.0                                             15.0
(12.6)                                           (12.6)
- Battomlands                                        0.8 al                     0.8
(0.7)                     (0.7)
Vehicles and Heavy Equipment     2.0         0.8                                  2.8
(1.6)       (0.6)                                (2.2)
Other Equipment
- PuMps                        1.2 b|                                           1.2
(1.0)                                            (1.0)
- Office Machines
and Furniture                            0.4                                  0.4
(0.3)                               (0.3)
Technical Assistance and
Consultants' Services                                 6.1 c/                     6.1
(5.0)-                    (5.0)
Bullock-fattening Credit                               0.1 d/                     0.1
Line of Credit                                                      6.0 e/        6.0
(3.0)-        (3.0)
Local Persozmel/
Operating Cost                                       17.5          5.8 f/       23.3
Total                      18.2          2.1      24.5        11.8           56.6
(15.2)       (1.6)     (5.7)       (3.0)         (25.5)
*   Not applicable.
al Executed by SEMRY and MNIDEVIV.
U/  Limited ICB.
c/  To be procured individually or through firms, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
al  Bulls to be purchased from local farmers.
el  Procurement under the line of credit vill follow the same procedures as for all other
components, with the respective amounts depending on the nature of the sub-projects.
f/  Local personnel.
52.        The Bank loan would be disbursed over about 6 years as follows: (i)
for civil works (buildings and bottomland development), the turnkey contract
of 1,000 boreholes, imported vehicles, heavy and light office equipment,
pumps, technical assistance and consultants' services, 802 of total expendi-
tures; (ii) for sub-projects expected to be financed under the line of credit,
502, corresponding to the estimated foreign exchange component; and (iii)
about US$2.2 million would be unallocated. Except for the line of credit,
disbursements would be supported by full documentation. Part of disbursements
against sub-projects under the line of credit would be against statements of
expenditures. RDF has gained experience in the preparation of statements of



- 17 -
expenditures under the first Project and this should, therefore, pose no
problems.
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
53.       RDF's headquarters Accounting Department has proven its ability and
needs no strengthening, except for a micro data-processor to mechanize ac-
counts. However, RDF's headquarters would be provided with an experienced
internationally recruited financial controller, familiar with Bank procedures,
to handle its increased workload (consolidating and auditing sub-project
accounts, supervising procurement procedures). In addition, its operating
branch in the North (SOFSAR) would be strengthened with an internationally
recruited chief accountant, vho, in addition to overseeing RDF's Maroua
financial complex, would be in charge of the accounts of the rural water
supply sub-project. Botb the implementing agencies and RDF would keep sepa-
rate accounts for individual sub-projects. Assurances were obtained that
RDF's consolidated, annual accounts would be prepared as a separate document
and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02(a) of
the draft P.A.) The auditors' report would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year, and summary quarterly reports on
the progress of each sub-project would be prepared by RDF on the basis of the
executing agencies' quarterly reports to it.
G. Benefits and Risks
54.       The economic rates of return (ERRs) for the identified sub-projects
for which a rate of return could be calculated, range from 20% to 37Z. The
average ERR on these components, which account for 19% of project costs, is
22%. In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of benefits which
cannot be quantified. The most significant would be the further strengthening
of Government's capability to prepare and execute small-scale rural projects,
the creation of a sound institutional and policy framework for rural water
supply, and improvements in village level administration. In addition, the
village water component would provide some 350,000 beneficiaries with year-
round clean drinking water and 5,000 farmers would benefit from the literacy
camDaign.
55.       The project has two sources of risk:
(a) inadequate management both in RDF and in sub-project executing
agencies. To reduce this risk, agencies have been carefully select-
ed on the basis of their satisfactory past performance and would
receive technical assistance as a?propriate; and
(b) loss of momentum in formulation and implementation of rural water
policy. To avoid this, technical assistance would be provided to
the responsible sectoral institution, regular exchanges of views
would take place with the Bank and disbursement against borehole
drilling and pump supply contracts would be conditional upon adop-
tion of satisfactory measures to implement the beneficiaries'
participation policy.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agree-went between tle Republic of Cameroon and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and FONADER, and the
recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the draft Loan and Project Agreements are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
58.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be: (i) Government
deposit into the RDF revolving fund account, of a sum equivalent to CFAF 400
million; (ii) the ass'uption of duties of a financial controller and a senior
accountant by FONADER; and (iii) the establishment of the PMCU and the employ-
ment of its engineering consultants (Section 6.01 of the draft L.A.). A
special condition of disbursement against the borehole drilling and pump
supply contracts would be the adoption of satisfactory measures in the project
area for implementing a water policy based on beneficiaries participation
(Schedule 1. para. 3(b) of the draft L.A.).
59.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington D.C.
Attachments
May 10, 1985



- 19 -
ANNEX I
T A R L   I 3A                               Page  1 of  7
CAmIUaN                - S0C.AL IIIOCATDRS  S  SHT E
C4111CO                              UDIRSIC CODUPS CIfIONUImD 9303)j 
osr                (MMT    R? ETIR) /b
ucas         tiiznoaaDDLcE a.        NMbC   SCLE a7 R
196n/b       i        RST197A L ETTd&   AQICA S. OF BASAW    N. AFCA A IUD EANS
AM   imwu         SQ. m)
TOTAL                               475.4         .75.4        475.4
ACHICULTURAL                        143.9         142.8        152.4
CP FUE OITA (US)                       1U0.0         260.0       890.0         1112.9                    1149.6
mEaT COuuAiOu MR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        61.0          64.0        122.0         529.0                     622.1
PUIATIU  AS VITS. STATISTICS
POPULATtON HID-YCAR (THOUSANDS)    5332.0        6506.0      92S6.0              -
U11RA1 POPULATION C: OF TOTAL)       13.9          20.3         37.3          29.7                      48.2
POPULATION PROJECTIUNS
POPUlATION IN YEM  20C0 (HILL)                                17.2
STATIONARY POPULATION CHILL)                                  64.6
POPULATION ?IINTLM                                             1.
POPULATION DENSIT1
PER SQ. M.                         11.2          13.7         18.9          55.8                      36.3
PER SQ. M01. AGRt. LAND            37.0          45.6        58.9          111.5                     461.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YUS                          38.9          40.5         41.4          45.4                      43.6
15-64 YRS                          57-0          55.3        54.3           51.7                      53.1
65 AND ABOVE                        4.1           4.1          4.4           2.9                       3.3
POPULATION CROIH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               1.5           2.0          2.9           2.8                       2.5
URRAI                               3.0           S.6         8.0            5.2                       4.5
CRUDE SIRTh RATE (PER THOU5)         36.2          43.0         46.3          47.0                      40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEk THOUS)         21.2          18.5         14.7          15.2                      11.5
CROSS RPRODUCTION RATE                2.4           2.8         2.8            3.2                       2.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TOBS)             ..
USERS (2 OF HARRIED WEN)            ..            ..         2.0 I7          *                       22.2
vooA -M mumxmu
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        89.0         101.0       102.0           91.6                      97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       97.0          97.0       1O2.0           98.2                     110.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           52.0          55-0        58.0           56-7                      70.1
OF LEECH ANAIU AND PULSE         12.0          15.0        10 /d        17.0                      17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          28.0          23.0        16.0           18.7                      14.6
ALT8
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTP (YEARS)        43.0          47.5        53.3           51.7                      57.5
IHFAHT NORT. RATE (PER T0ous)       134.0         117.0        92.0          102.7                     101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..            ..        26.0 /e        35.6                      59.7
UR8UI.                                                       35.07.         54.1                      84.5
RURAL                                ..            ..        22.0 Te        27.3                      38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                                ..            ..
URN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          45230.0       28920.0     13990.0 If    11948.3                     4345.1
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON            3060.0 Izb   2610.0        1950.0 7T     2248.9                   I131.1
POP. PER ROSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             500.0         540.0 /1    370.0 Id       986.9                     632.9
URBAIIN                           680.0 hs   300.0 7        20O.O 71i     368.7                     545.5
RURAL                             500.0 o       650.0       5 10O.0 7oo   4012.1                    2513.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..            * *         *                                      26.2
u-OI-
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TrCAL                                ..            ..          5.7 /I
ma                                   ..           ..          5.17 
RURAL                                ..            ..         5.2 7Te
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROON
TOTAL                                -.           -.            --
URSa                                  .            ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF MWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..            ..         6.7 /e          ..                      66.2
URBAN                                ..            ..        22.6 7T          ..                      77.7
RURAL                                ..             -0.5 7                    ..                      16.1



-20 -                                                  ANNE I
T AS L 3  34                                    Page  2  of  7
cauao                  - sOCeL   hCATou DATA Suit
csuurn    ~~~~~~~~ wuwgai auoun (WIHT   AERAGES
mm                  (MST RECENT ESTIMATE) A.
1031?      MIDDI   INCOME          MIDOLI rICUS
I96a!L      1970tu    E     nTI Lk  AFRICA S. Uf SAHAR    V. ARICA & MID u.n
ADUSTED ENROMENI   LRtIOS
PRIMARYs  ToTAL                    05.0          91.0       107.0           91.0                      80.3
MA=L                    87.0         106.0       117.0            90.5                    102.5
FUtKE                   *3.0          77.0        97.0            73.6                     73.6
SEOONDARYm TOTAL                    2.0           8.0        19.0            17.1                     43.0
KALE                     4.0          11.0        25.0            23.7                     52.3
FEMAE                    1.0           4.0        13.0            14.S                     33.0
VOTIONTAL (C OF SECONDARY)           23.0          22.8        26.9 /f         5.3                      10.3
PUPIL-TEACNER RATIO
IARY                                 ..          48.0        52.0 jf        3.06                      30.3
SECODARY                             ..          21.0        25.0 if        26.3                      23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)              18.9 lb       12.0        40.5 /         35.6                      43.5
PASSENGE  CARS/THOUSAND POP           1.8           5.1         9.0 IC        20.7                      17.3
RADIO RECEIVERS/YHOUSAND POP          1.9          32.6        87.3           100.8                    138.8
TV RECIIVERS/71IOUSAID POP             ..            ..         ..             18.5                     46.1
NEWSPA    ("DAILY GENERAL
INTSTr) CRCULATION
PER THDUSAND POPULATION             1.3           2.6         3.3            17.2                     31.2
CINIA ANNUAL ATTENDACE/CAPITA         0.1           0.9 fL       *-            0.3                       1.7
TOTAL LABR FORCE CTHOUS)           2728.0        3165.0      4173.0
FvMw  (PERCENT)                    43.0          42.7        41.2            33.8                     10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0          85.0        83.0            57.1                     42.4
IDSTRY (PERCT)                      5.0           6.0         7.0           17.4                      27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              51.2          48.7        45.0            36.3                     26.2
MALE                               59.9          57.0        53.8            47.6                     66.4
FIALE                              42.9          40.6        36.5            25.1                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDICY RATIO              0.9           0.9         1.0             1.4                      1.8
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INC0ME
RECEIVED BY
RICES  5S OF HOUSEHDLDS              ..
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEODLDS            ..
LUlS! =M OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWT 40Z OF  OUSEHOLDS               ..            ..          .
ESTDIATED ABSOLUT  PoVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
lRBA                                 ..            *-       238.0 le        525.3                    274.8
RURAL                                ..            ..       105.0 k         249.0                    177.2
ESTUIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INmE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBUA                                ..            ..          ,.           77.4                     402.6
RURAL                                ..            ..         ..            186.0                    284.9
ESTIMATED Pop. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEET 1NC5E LEVEL (Z)
URBANI  
RURtL                                .0.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T S
a   The group average  for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetc meens. Covrage of countrIes among the
indicetors depends on availability of data end Lu not unifor.
/b   Ulearn othcwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Host Recent Estimte" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1978; /d 1977; Ie 1976; /f 1979; It Including ezSouch Cmroon under British adminietration; lb 1962; /i 1968;
JUNE 1984



-21-                                                                           ANNEX I
mrms. cast                                                                           Pageua  flT3of 7
NOR..  Aataitb   b..... s  a te    s.tt.  sartasldal  leeS" I.n.  abuSsSt  Is  1                            .. SI sheS    L. hs tes  the I1bu t59  -1 he SntMats,.siirlp
n .rtbl. basled Of 5t. isa  .1 *Ss..hsis  idSsSS.s  eiass.ri          p&s  mad C  dillersti   teUds  1. .slhtsii  the "Is.  TM  "sis s. domibSkdl....  aS    is
.Mtub   l. .5 ..sisi.dSi-. t-Ad.  a                              -hu..issud4. s.Je  dlul.s.  bias. se-dt..-
U. stS*fl5   oraru   . i   (n  ir.  -~ sustuv sitep .6 Sba tyhiat smts              ad (ali .sSpgm somt   LsirtS. st s    flub.      n sts addiii.   Rh-5 Sb. saw,a  mis  of oth
tchjss  .*fslu  tSs.ss r.s  aIL   isalla Ii Sssttn.n    raalr  swap m p               da.I .  ialS.k Uris  . I   aild. bs  . oh-e  bsst.1 S  tlwse., .atwlst.sa
.lsuiSss.).  ia lb. wrarstagus dot. She sssflma  55  psppsItSSt aa.iSSlo  e515b.tS. as    l.t -n S,                     t   ad Okadai ddIV   . s.JewLSp ar Sb assiStsoa Is.
eten he aS. use  h.n  sUSalAw.  Kies  Sb ta-mte  Of .asssttls ams -t .   fi,tlattisu   de oati  -  Sb  ISSi.oaiSiSu 5?da. ad  Is aso  di-.ss   -ssii   me  1
...Ss    .5 stisiSId   -M.. .5 -   isististle  isaftwI.  lb.. sswlrqs  .,s t-Ip ..sstl I. sttulisj lb.al   .sas  ISitiss  55 S Se ss.ssa   Sb ass,   a
A%     (bstSt.bsS   .-Iihju,..r.al.Thhglflht-almotptl5tt.s                                                                               -  attdw   ati  u si rsss
5970 .5   51ik                                                                                   tj5 J tlf                    ,5ttj; 1s.             ML - t-w3dtalm         .3
EfPN~,6h~53UI- m   t,.ap    ..sSst, etda .1..   l.s.uu silas,                                   a.Ldshss is  dhilea.5  phavles   ada.. tS  sp11 sSetia..  555515ttl Is9f
low.le  tthd       addSetdsto."m42heSS                                                   sbhtissesistM asset.-. t.pii.. stw  .et.hlSsal psimss.si  *ttVI
5955. 5515  Is St.l d.u..                                                 hu~~~~~~dad -             %sI        uisust rlS.iibt.1.- h- ..iSss  pia.iitiiu  ddyaea
wutse ttlUyleas  IsISSSSI.P,.tst-a   _eissei-   _dIs lte. ...e_                           ssgtl.as. "Mws. sd.#ut. s.d) ash sure  .s-pstiss   .ustdists   Is
.ilS  Ist it.s"al             t   Wastt.                  1_                                     Ai7ut,  f..  hi4a. 1.uh,ibiuhiIb     ;atti .brawi  iSslst .fI ithsst
M         .[M   ~~~~tn .", .1 his.
low. lope. " LI" ~ ~  ~        ~       ~ ~ ~~1- sSi.sbe ar.s
Ibis.  tstiets (csss t  t..ei  - bis .1  ubs S  ssts    wt.ls..s                     - 5bte              Its. AM'. 51        14p    - Su    -vdt.ke taas   lits sIttessu
M W  :w5pe              i,nt   pwsStit ps]ssl l.                   -  sltss               iss.sss tSIraesa      es                         t      stn         aewb
frtu dt a -          d,   0da a  -      I                se   .s                              5   s...sy  a   I   litbs   s -I..I  -espiS  es.sls
55tI.  Pr.teis  Pas.asSu.  Irssu I.ISr us.tasiss su Shus-                                     ts.Ispd punS.
tails.aise   ib  qsessswet hts- SeLsai  tflh  -s.ssr                                t4 ee  SI. Si'sa-it  tssss  * d-M sii,t         - ltien.-            uss
u..T-he stssssI . isnhits  rss  sit  h.s                   3i1.be s                        1stist...ds.a eit..tu. e .
-4s -t.t-..  s=  .Itst. s.f   all"ss  5-.W. Ia  o-jssis    tr.                                     sd                                      as       ulst   .          .wst
ass as  Itass - 3. ss is shle    P- Is  std-sutils seussyusIsu.                                                                      C- ss t-.l  sIs Is   as.
*st M . W htsd  es            -ts                                    isii   il    autSS sn  Slsp-t
uspt-Isit  tttsi.  i.ssI   titts. R- Is   us   lsI   5.l.                                         .,   5   isSs   t  ityeit                  -  plua        w  ASts l.us
htSs-51 tesse stsssdis*. 155.es.tsS1                          s  b   51                         s51,I-sts.   sLs  t1                    'tle-  ss4-tbn  ssss
UtsStSs       ss.    s  b   sds    is,L stu.slsst. sssss htsus           am.                       Wlsas  setI.sesut                - s.bltst    ea.i.   .
Ssusd Sh  hashstSsrs.seI-L.sL   s-I121f  s  ins1 Iita.tss-si                                3 Is  ..ssi  .1   I .    t tst55;tlsa tsfst.5
S,Itsu tts   5   ttuse.s   esi.ustdtly    t                                                    stii  5 tisi=.
ss   I  5  tusat s.  . s   ..,   I s.tsti s  .  Ist .ua-  tssttti srelass'ssuss  -5tt..dsst     esSse I             alIsiss
slS.sslsspusssut5   i   stlss   sssus      jsstSe    s*lesMtslal                                                               b   ustssItsse
abs  ~ 5551tusslass  talt51 lsiastss  l..i u.. ,.       lseusssss I  - ..dsststttl  su  stsdsu  SsI -lpus.t
0-I.: itit.dIsIfta ai tesa
rsstse55      treusus,uss   Oftt**5               1s5   s.t- .e   sit-               OtstsuIyZstt
ii  0-ti2 tetsl   set    Is  ls   .wtts    5sd.e                                               rs.ts.    t. tstSt-et                  he -  ssess  tp   u t ts             ..
utsikis.  Sat,lit,   5   t.:s.t.                                                Is  sIti   a..  h.s.sbuss.sF.eis.  sbs.t..bstss  I
utetuuu.isiss:   n..tf.*s.J151dse.1   I-   .t Ii.  abi-tst   iusIaSt                                                    --s.I                                 R
IslIsils lstt~s~s5   I-,as-u.tlst.td.5I  Il,s5    d.lslle-tiusa                                                           isfns  .s..tIt.   Idsula           -A  -sI  iue
Ma.ubiledtltultI   5Istds   ss                                                                                                                          s.i   st.l.s
ts5sCi.' -5.es.ItS.e5  ys..st     Sfs   tst   5tets..                                     t-ds5           is   Il   5  es5.sss 
IbaS-.stn   .5s   .l-stte-tt.tl's                            isst                           Itu 1.e   ltess51bwI  .    s      sda   h                           t5
usra-s  s.4v  P.n-  *.ss ..4  Isase I. A-Vlls   -5              ta tIL- sc



ANNEX  I
-22 -                                           Pa-ge 4 of 7
Population:   9.3 million  (mid-1983)
GDP per Capita:   US$810 -  (1983)
UUIYU  Re:ure OF CA1NRO0
3COEOMIC INDICATORS
(Nl4lcaw U92 at ourrzne prices)
Calendar Tera
J5  t976   l9T7   <8   lyRg 1980  t981   1982
UTURL PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY
GUARANITEED sORROWI   AND DEBT a/
Croa- disburemeata
Official grnt.                              20     24      23     11    18      L.&.  16a.  16a.
Coneeloual loans                            49     56     123    135   178   13    127        86
DAC                                      17     32      40     53    83      70     68      51
OPF                                       6      3      13      6    20     24       2      1
IDA                                      16    18       21     19    20      19    32      32
Other                                    10      3      49     57    54     20      24      2
loe-conceeilonal loa                        77    122    183    171   344    43       234      95
Official ezport credits                   1      7      19     12    75     82    102       21
ZID                                      17      8      15     35    27     24      14      17
Other aultilateral                       4       1       3     21   It       t8    14       10
Private                                   6    105     146    104   232    309    104       47
Exteral Debt
Debt outstandn  and disbursed             372    513     524   1136  1636   1999  2021       1912
official                               293    345      510    725  1018   1188   1294      1310
of which: IEND                       50      57      72    102   130    152    167      182
IDA                        50     68    a8    108   127    146    173         204
Private                                  79    16S     314    411   618   811    727       602
Undi.bursed debt                           321    496     544    787  1072    612    544      680
Debt Service
Total service pay enta                      36     39      57    104   133    183   200       264
TIterest                                 15     19      28     42    60    103    115      121
Payments as % of exports b/                 5.8    5.6     6.8    8.4   9.2   9.       8.6  11.6 C/
Average intereet rate an me  loans ()         4.5    6.3     5.6    6.8   9.2    6.0    6.4    9.2
Official                            2.5    3.9      4.6    4.3   6.4    4.9    5.1    9.2
Private                              9.2    7.6     7.5   10.3  12.5  16.4    9.3    8.5
Average saturity of new loans (years)        25.3   17.0   17.6   21.5  16.2  24.9  20.9   18.4
Officia                                    32.0   32.5   23.0  28.9  21.0  26.6   26.,   19.3
Private                                    10.1    9.0     6.9   ,t.1  1&.6   8.3    B.5    9.0
iA % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Post Recent
Year (1983)
Maturity structure of doubt outstanding
laturitioe due within  5 years                       35.7
Katuritia. dts within 10 Tears                       63.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                        4.2
./ In-period or end-of-period figures are eho-n
b/ Export data on fiscal year basic
c/1  Ui  in debt serrice ratio partly reflects decline in the value of the French Franc via-s-Vi3 the UIS dollar whicbL
depresses Cameroon s export earnings expressed in US dollars.



-23-                                                       ANNEX I
Paje 5 of 7
UNITS3 HEPOLIC Wf C^ E
ECDUC IUICATONII) Is
17!      1976      1977      197       197       110       1m       197       I193
NATUIS. CCIIITIS
(IN lENIEN CYFW DILLIONSI
GIP at Maret Price                 579.9    657.2    789.8    966.1  1W32.3   19366.2  10749.3  29168.3  2t5U.I
Grass Iaetw Savings                103.1    101.1    142.6    27S.6    271.3    360.2    515.1    721.8    938.!
Gross Nationl Savinrs               90.4      91.4    154.7    262 .5     23.6    335.-    53.9    662.4    878.4
Current Acct Bla     lb           -30.2    -31.1    -26.4         5.1    -15.6      40.6      45.0    114.1      n.a.
Exports of loads n NIFS            145.6    150.5    202.        2 96.1    301.5    449.6     m53.      706.8    111.9
Imports af 6oads me NS            -162.5   -171.1   -221.8   -251.3   -310.1   -336.4   -42.1   -531.2    560.5
(Ac 2 af GOP at Markipt Price)
P at Srket Prices                  100.0    100.0    100I.       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Grass Domstic Svim                  17.9      15.4      20.6      29.9      24.0     26.4      33.4      33.5      36.6
Gross National Savinus              15.6      13.9      19.6      27.2      22.4     24.5      30.5      30.3      34.3
Current Account Balac               -5.2      -4.7      -3.3       2.9     -1.6       2.9       2.6       5.3    n.a.
Exports ot 6loas an NFS             25.1      22.9      25.7      30.6      27.3      32.9     31.6      32.6      32.0
lmarts at loads and NFS            -23.0    -26.0    -29.1    -26.5    -27.4    -3.3    -26.4    -24.5    -21.9
(bmual Real Rates of Greoth)
GDP at  arket Prices                -1.9       2.4       9.9      10.6       4j        7.7     10.3       5.3       4.4
MMSS WUE AME  BY SECTOR
(In Current CFtF Milliansi
Agriculture incl.Livestnck etc     193.7    220.9    359.7    305.3    359.2    404.4    4Uc.1    586.7    607.1
tining                               2.3       2.0       3.2       5.2     19.5      61.5    154.5    253.5    343.6
Nanuf&ctArlr                       56.2      67.5      74.7      86.7    101.9    124.1    173.7    247.0    2'70.
Construction                        21.6      29.6      42.2      40.7     68.0      84.4    103.3    125.0    145.9
Electricita, Gas. Mater              5.7       6.7      10.1      11.0      14.3     16.3      17.5      22.2     30.1
Transmrt and Cuicattans             49.3      55.1      57.7     75.&      7'.6      90.0    103.6    119.3       129.9
Trad                                93.9    107.1    126.9       154.6    193.5    202.3    232.3    249.3    310.7
Public Administration               43.6      45.1      56.3      74.3      84.9     99.3    110.3    135.3    171.8
Other Services                      85.3      91.4    115.      141.9    159.0    206.1    263.4    29r.6    395.5
meart Dutles                        28.3      32.9     43.1      70.8      64.4      76.5    102.6    126.4    146.9
(As : of Total)
Aericulture incl.Lxvestoct etc      33.4      33.6      32._      31.6      ;1.7      Y.6      27.S      27.1      23.7
(fming                               0.4       0.3       0.4       0.5       1.7       4.5      9.9      11.9      13.4
Ranutacturxn                         9.7      10.3       9.5       .D       9.0       9.1      9.9      11.4      11.4
p                         Construction                         3.1       4.4       5.3       4.2       6.0   b .2         5.9       5.9       5.7
Electricity, Gas and Wtter           1.0       1.0       1.3       1.1       1.3       1.,      1.0       1.0       1.:
Transport and Comuwnications         9.5       8.4       7.3       7.9      6.9       6.6       5.9       5.5      5.0
Trade                               16.2      16.3      16.1     Io.0      16.?      14.9      13.3      11.5     12.1
Public Administration                7.5       6.9       7.1       '.7       ?.5      7.3       6.3       6.2      6.7
Other Services                      14.7      13.9      14.7      14.?      14.0     15.1      15.1      13.9      15.1
lhert Duties                         4.9       5.0      5.5        7.3      5.7       5.6       5.9       5.S       5.7
tE *1.00-- CfF                     f.4       225.1    247.8    238.6    216.6    209.2    233.3    296.7    354.7
(Period Aera
SURCE?Caeroonzan authorities. Sbak staff estimates.
'a F;scal Year (July 1- June 30) is used  Aith End Year shman in the table.
/b Dat on current account balance cow rra  the finistr'
ot Finance NP data.
MEST AFRIC CP2h
Olr.4/85



- 24 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
ECuNmC DIuIrAlEU
1871     1'76      177      1973       L        190      19        1992      1913
WMRN  FlnN fh"l he Jc
tin CFP Ililli3n)
Currn reeirpt                          7R.9       0.6    121.1    164.1    152.2    210.4    27?.3    3489    414.6
Current Ewenditure                     73.4      77.7     95.9    124.4    133.9    151.7    223.6    36.4    351.3
Curret wrrius                           5.5      21,9     25.2      39.7      11.3    5.?       55.7     97,5      63.3
Citol Enditure                         29.9      44.9     46.       41.8    515.1      73.2    153.9    19.1    196.5
External hutroin  (eUt)                 7.3       9.3    -19.t       0.2      -5.2     30.7      27.7     13.3      10.8
(As Permntau of GOP)
Curent ReLirts                         13.6      15.7     15.3      17.0      13.4     15.4      16.0     16.1      16.2
Current Eendite                        12.7      11.3     12.1      12.?      11.0     11.1      17.8     11.E      13.7
Current Swrpls for deficit)             0.?       3.3      3.3       4.1       1.6      4.3       3.2      4.3      2.5
Caital Expediture                       5.0       6.3      5.9       5.1       4.9      5.4       3.9      8.7       7.7
External Donrris (Nt)                   1.3       1.4     -?.5       0.0      -0.5      2.2       1.6      0.9       0.4
naeT, C        3     MID PRICES is
(In CPI Nillians-rd Period)
.'m   wuJ Ausi-unet                  94720   117,7PD  1455470  194,30    MM1:9    239,391  3WON700  445,600   477.200
Dat Credit to BvermmnOt               5,510    6.155     91.953   14:1W    16,731   21.14?   7,5jO0   40930   50,760
Bat Credit toUw Ecnumn              101,510   119970   169740   '36:52   277:913  341.447  47900   03,590  7%6.180
Govemen dwroiits   stilt buts          .0O90    19500    30.400   42:430   59,930   73.320  126:130  153.700  1VS430
Percentase. or Indx Mumters
Non    tI acitaw     n. I ofP SW/      16.3      17.9      19.7     1S99      19.3     20.7      20.4     20.4      19.6
Yjtandg Comqer Pnre Index /a
1I196400)               1.LS    1l9.0    206.9    237.4    259.1          It   304.6    346.9    393.9
*u-l Perctntage Chates in:
Yaof* r     .wr Price Index            17.4       9.      11.9      1.e        9.1      7.7       9.9     13.1      13.5
Bo* Credit to Govrnmnt                 42.7      19.9     50.4      473..     13.2     26.4    3M.R       41.7      25.7
BDa  Crrdit to Uwt frow                2P.6      19.2     41.5      39.3      26.0     21.4      3?.6     25.9      23.6
6onnt denAits with bknk                 2.3    Itl.3      55.9      39.6      41.7     22.3      77.1     21.9      27.2
SOWCE:Caeronia .-woritis   ak staff estimates.
/. Fiscal Tear (Jul- 1-Jre 30) i: ur.d. Trer idiCJiate  Ut mix Iw.mr tfur acth
fiscal Year.
lb UP is; or Fiscal Tear.
/c Plic rinance fihurec fur 1992 arc r.    w tvdget.
IEST AURICA P2
t! /325/



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                            Page 7 of 7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAERSO
ECUNIIIC INDICATUS(3)
1975    176       1977     1971      1979     1        1911      1992     193
eALNE  F PAllEIITS
(IN ItLLION! CFAF)
Emrorts of Goods and WS               145,600  150,500  202,600  296.100   30S00  449,00  549,900  715.900   91890O
Inorts of Goads and SF       s       -162,50c -171,10o  -221,000 -256,300 -3109100 -3B6,400  -462,2O  -531,200  5we60o
Resource Gap (deficit 5 -I            -16,900  -20,600  -19,200   39,00   -14300   63u5,    87,300  184.600  'A,400
Interest Pawnts (net)                  -8,572   -109196   -9292   -13.31?  -18,84    -21.803  -47.t61  -57.0??      - -
Slrkers' Resittans                     -7,606   -7,381   -6,709   -3.257   -1,691   -29345    1,315         -405    - -
Net Transfers                           2,848    79103    6,761    4,858    3.011         692    2.537  -13.033    - -
Belanc at Current Account             -30,229  -31,074  -26,440   789082  -19.64    40,023   44-991   114.142    - -
Net Direct Foreign Investment           5,443   51718    1.503    3.0Y1   9Y755   14,163   29,224   299160    - -
Total Net Mediu and Lon-
Term Borroigu                        13,978   28613   329016   24.773   35,928   49,575   94576   50.235    _  _
?Disbursements                    20,988   36,458   43,093   51,575   58190   65,704   49,040   131.996    -  _
:Aeorti:ation                     -7.010   -7845  -11,079  -26.802  -2.252  -16,129  -54.485   -81,649
Trade Credit (netl                      3,768    2,290   -3,532    2,99         610   -1.802   -10.571   30.461   -  -
Other Short Tern Capital               -4,914   -1,200   -2.287   -2.7B9  -11,225   -7,2D4   -3,902   13,423   _  -
Other Capital n.e.u.                   -3,755   -5,677   -39365   -18,28       -215      -569      919   -3.199
Gross O"icial Intemational Reserves    11.116   1l.706   13.799   75,359   19.235   41,279   l2.989    9,527   49-.9
Net Forezsn Assets                      9.110    6,aI0      -160   14,890   -99300   22,760   l0.230   -9.B150   59.280
US 91.00@ CFAF  (Period Averae)        222.4    225.1    247.8    238.6    216.6    209.2   Z35.3    296.1    354.7
SR 1.00@ CFW  (Period Averagel        271.4    263.4    286.3    296.1    277.1    27?.2    294.5    337.?    383.9
SOURCE:Caueromian authorities. Bank staff estimates.
Fiscal Year (july-June) is used .ith end wear sham in table.
Nate: - means 'not available'.
WEST AFRICA CF2B
01/2B7B5



-26-                              ANNE II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAUIONS
IN THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. STATIEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or
Credit                                                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Number        Year   Borrower      Purpose                            Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
--------- US$ million ---------
Twenty-two Credits and nineteen Loans have been fully disbursed    182.42        215.28
1245T-CM      1976   Cameroon      Education III                       17.0                    2.35
673-CM       1977   Cameroon      Tecb"ical Assistance                            4.5         0.42
1494-C0       1977   Cameroon      Feeder Roads                         4.6                    2.46
776-CM       2978   Cameroon      Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                                   8.5        1.23
1723-CM       1979   Cameroon      Highway IV                          38.0                    8.84
1734-CM       1979   Regifercam   Railway IV                           27.0                   13.17
1753-CM       1979   Cameroon      Second Water Supply                 21.0                   12.44
1791-CM       1980   Cameroon      Hevecam II                          16.5                    2.82
1010-CM       1980   Cameroon      Livestock II                                   16.0         9.05
1919-CM       1981   Cameroon      Northern Province Rural
Development                      25.0                   19.33
1168-CM       1981   Cameroon      Technical Cooperation II                       10.00 a/    7.08 b/
2073-CM       1982   Cameroon      Po-t and Telecomuunication
Assistance                        7.5                    5.49
2092-CM       1982   Cameroon      Forestry                             7.0                    5.69
2160-CM       1982   Cameroon      Oil Palm/Rubber Consolidation       50.8                   42.59
2180-CM       1982   Cameroon      Highway V                           70.0                   46.65
2244-CM       1983   Cameroon      Urban Development                   20.0                   19.51
2259-CM       1983   NPAC          Third Douala Port                   22.5                   18.33
2406-CM c/    1984   Cameroon      Western Province Rural              21.5                   21.50
Development II
2485-CM c/    1985   Revecam       Third Hevecam Rubber                 8.3                    8.30
TOTAL                                                  539.12      254.28     247.25
of which has been repaid                              48.66        8.12
TOTAL now outstanding                                  490.46      246.16
Amount sold                   12.72
of which has been repaid   12.72                 -          -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA bh                      490.46      246.16
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                      229.47       17.78     247.25
aI Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
b/ Beginning with Credit 1075-CM, credits haave bpen dennamnated in Special Drawing Rights. The
dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equival 't at the time of credit
negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalent as of March 31, 1985, for the
undisbursed amounts.
cl Not yet effective.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
lnvestment      Fiscal
Number          Year        Obligor           Type of Business             Loan      Equity   Total
--     USS million------
331-CM           1975        BAIA              Shoe Factory                   -        0.13      0.13
355-CM           1977        SAFACAM I         Rubber Plantation              -        0.81      0.81
430-CM           1979         SAFACAM II       Rubber Plantation              -         0.41     0.41
452-CM           1979         ALUCAM           Non-Ferrous Metal             7.00       0.93     7.93
551-CM           1981        SCM               Food & Food Processing        1.12      0.19      1.31
578-CM           1981        SOCAVER           Glass Bottle Factory           -        0.12      0.12
579-CM           1981        SAFACAM III       Rubber Plantation              -        0.17      0.17
633-CM           1982         SOSUCAM          Food & Food Processing        1.50        -       1.50
681-CM           1984        SAPICAM           Food & Food Processing        0.87      0.34      1.21
1985 a/     SPFS              Food & Food Processing        1.62      0.56     2.18
TOTAL gross commitments                                                     12.31       3.66    15.77
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                     0.87      0.34      1.21
TOTAL commitments now held by IFC                                           U.24        3.32    14.56
TOTAL UNDISBbURSED                                                           1.62      0.56      2.18
a/ Not yet signed.
r



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Cameroou
Second Rural Development Fund (PSAR) Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.     Timetable of key events:
(a) Time taken to prepare the Project: 16 months
(b) Project prepared by: FONADER
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the Project: Nov. 1982
(d) Date of appraisal mission: May 1983
(e) Negotiations completed: April 25, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  mid-October 1985
Section II.    Special Bank Implemencation Action:
Assistance in drafting the terms of reference for, and helping to
select resident specialists and consultants.
Section III.   Special Conditions
1.        During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) RDF's accounsts would be kept separately from FONADER's other
activities and would be audited annually by auditors acceptable
to the Bank (para. 53);
(b) specific conditionalities deemed necessary for correct execution
of sub-projects would be covered in operational agreements to be
entered into between FONADER/RDF and selected executing agencies
(para. 45);
(c)  a policy of recovery of maintenance and renewal costs of rural
water supply will be pursued, and the National Water Committee
will propose ways and means co this end; the Committee will
exchange views periodically with the Bank on proposals for rural
water supply (paras. 41 and 50); and
(d) consultants to provide advice to the Government in organization
and management of national rural water supply schemes, would be
appointed by December 31, 1985 (para. A1); and
2.        Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  Government has deposited into the RDF II revolving account an
initial amount of CFAF 400 million (US$0.8 million) representing
start-up working capital (para. 49);
(b) the financial controller and the senior accountant have assumed
their functions (para. 37); and



- 29 -
ANNME III
Page 2 of 2
(c) the PMCU has been established and the engineering consultants
have been employed (para. 46).
3.        A condition of disbursement would be that:
Against expenditures for borehole drilling and pump supply
contracts for the rural water supply component, Government has
taken measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to enforce its policy
based on beneficiaries participation in the cost of maintenance
and replacement of rural water installations (para. 50).



.;_. -    N I G E R                                  -       '      -3
A,LI    I C E R'. Ir_
otPtJ          }      { CEN~~~TRAL AFRICAN       _     _                                     .r.ifl               UI
r < ~~~REP>UBLIC' . * isr
NIGErecRe   A'                                     ine    NIGEI                                             CI        v
t                   k    ne.                I
Volta  Y    C H A 0                              -E                 4$ ~        ~    ~    ~    C         A    
.1    t
N.   I GE RI
UIIITED REPULIC OF CAMEROOEPUB
SE CO    IID RURL NEEIP"NENT FU       IID FOJECT 
ProJoect Area. lnntittitln- ' . iotetlon or Identified Sob-Projects                                 3                _
r.    -                                               araF. aOeECAO. A DEVror  so uNornw oh 
Deleeeliea Ive on.CdVWAw_ncAb  e Fhlimini cap                                        e_                            ^
UN T RDF  REPUt LC OFi HqC   EOOM n
3 reaou-SENRY Hq           O               5    u<ioCapitalsi  
Prjc   Rea. _mm tq ir t -on ice  oe e    ieI ortsu
Bou   ddt e; _ enCare,    -    Dif  b*ioloricmohes
CEEEAHwA..;
Oslegohon Nosoob  ha.    *rovinciol bondimab
O' MAu oli     ahiR-  d dcygW --orq d,oirlefiri  g
iiilAdaeam oDeom RDP aetso'                                              g       1/                          f
GAces- SodOC SODECAO Fe5 e     * r     capitol,
RUnpo .'um'r-d'                *Awo
UZ o~.ad  d.dp.uee ine          -i -                                                                           * -d.
;,-utm  Kttego,,,-t              - .; - .                                        - dro
N~~~ ~ ~   ~ I G Ef                                                                            \ R I A  A           ReAlt
[5:   AdrSd  TH, _I- t,scgc\g.n mid PmsU Bt maImbC
111111 Admuog pia MWD aw,n   <a
rj  Ac..., wad. SOOECA4 or. 4.;4
<-  Fb..d aad..noa l
,'EOUATORIAt GUINEA  j  G~~~~~~~~~Z A B7.                                            R I C  A N      
,' UEPoBL -I
,LPn                          |          F                     ,             s-                                 d-1t   D tlb
,~~~~~~~~~~~0
NIGETR  IA*                                                             AD
SJZ   ~~~~~WE9ThW7-Y~~~~~~~        rN,'                 I                                t r
A.'l A-iW' Ia'C'IV                                     - EA   I      -
EUTORIeso AL GUI'tNEGA      0NC0NG0
, ~~~* \ No.1.   ~~~~~~~c.   sat ~ ~        I



