Document of                          E COP
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4780-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (FSAR) PROJECT
May 10, 1985
H-|LECOUr Y
West Africa Projects Department
Agriculture D
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CIJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             CFAF 1/
US$1.00              =    CFAF 490
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I square kilometer (kmn)        0.3861 square miles
I hectare (ha)            =    2.4711 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENEEMA   Centre National d'Etudes et d'Experimentation du Machinisme
Agricole (National Center for Study and Experimentation of
Agricultural Machinery)
DDC       Departement du Developpement Communautaire (Department of
Community Development)
DEP       Departement des Etudes et Projets (Studies and Projects
Department) (MINAGRI)
DPA       Delegation Prov7inciale d'Agriculture (Provincial Agricultural
Office)
FED       Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
FONADER   Fonds National de Developpement Rural (National Rural
Development Ftund)
MIDEVIV   Mission de De6veloppement des Cultures Vivri&res (Food Crop
Development Agency)
MINAGRI   Ministere de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MINMEN    Ministere des Mines et de l'Energie (1Iinistry of Energy
and Mines)
MINPAT    Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire (Ministry of
Planning and Regional Development)
PES       Projet des Eaux Souterraines (Groundwater Project) (MINMEN)
PMCU      Planning Management and Control IUnit
RDF       Rural Development Fund
RWS       Rural Water Supply
SEMRY     Societ6 d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture (Agency
for the Promotion and Modernization of Rice Cultivation)
SODECAO   Societe de Developpement du Cacao (Cocoa Development Company)
SODECOTON Socifte de Developpement du Coton (Cotton Development Company)
SOFSAR    Services des Operations du Fonds Special d'Actions P.urales
(Operational Service of Rural Development Fund)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ The CFAF is tied to the French franc (FF) in the ratio of CFAF 50 to
FF1. The French franc is currently floating.



CAMEROON              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ............................  iii-iv
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .u ........................             v-viii
INTRODUCTION ...................................................   1
I.  BACKGROUND
A. The Country  . .
B. The Economy          ..................                     1
C. The Agricultural Sector       ..                           2
D. Sectoral Institutions        ..                            3
E. Bank Group Involvement in the Sector.                      4
Involvement and Lending Strategy.                       4
The First RDF Project.                                  4
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A.  The Northern Region ...........................           6
B. Center and South Provinces.                                8
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Description.                       9
1. Institutional Development ........................  10
Strengthening of Agricultural Planning .... .....  10
Strengthening of RDF Management ....    ............  10
Priority Studies ...............................  11
Line  of  Credit   .................................  12
2.  Identified Sub-Projects ............ ..............  13
Bottomlands Development in the North ...........  13
Rural Water Supply .............. ...............  14
Bullock-Fattening ....................     .       16
Groundnut Marketing and Shelling ...............  17
Functional Literacy Training ...................  18
Bottomilands Development Around Yaounde .........  19
Access Roads ...................................  21
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission who visited
Cameroon in May 1983, comprising Messrs. Honisch, Rychener, des Bouvrie,
Meerman and Ms. Iwase of the West Africa Projects Department.  It was
updated following post appraisal missions by Messrs. Rychener and Falloux,
of May and October 1984. The report was edited by Mrs. Layton and typed by
Mesdames Wikramanayake and Parks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii?
Table of Contents  (continued)                                                              Page No.
B.   Technical Assistance  and Consultancies  ....                     .............    22
C.   Credit ..................................................    22
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Cost Estimates  .........................................    23
B.    Proposed  Financing  .....................................    25
C.    Procurement  ............................................    27
D.    Disbursement  ...........................................    29
E.    Financial Control,  Audit,  and Reporting  ....                    ............    29
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    General  ..            ..............................................    30
B.    Rural Development  Fund  .................................    31
C,    Rural Water Supply Agencies  ............................    32
D.    Other Implementation Agencies  ..........................    35
SEIMRY  ...........           .....................................    35
SODECOTON  ............................................    36
MIDEVIV  ..........            ....................................    36
SODECAO  ..........            ....................................    37
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.    Production  .............................................    38
B.    Markets  ...........             .....................................    38
C.    Prices  ............             .....................................    39
D.    Financial Results  ......................................    40
E.    Government  Cash Flow  ...................................    41
F.    Cost Recovery  ..........................................    41
VII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.    Major  Benefits  and Beneficiaries  .......................    42
B.    Economic Analysis  ......................................    43
C.    Risks  ..................................................    45
VIII.  AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....................                           46
ANNEXES
4-1 Detailed Project Cost Estimates
4-2 Detailed Financing by Sub-Project
4-3 Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IBRD Loan
5-l Organization Chart (FONADER/RDF/Ministries/Executing Agencies)
5-2 Implementation Schedule
6-1 Yield Assumptions and Production
6-2 Summary Farm Budgets
6-3 Government Cash Flow
6-4 Recurrent Project Costs
MAP: IBRD No. 17362: Cameroon - The Project Areas



CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE NO. 129.859
File
Code
A.   Preparation Study for Rural Water Supply Component
"Programme d'Hydraulique Villageoise du FSAR II",
Volumes I and II; May 1983.                                   (la,b)
B.  Preparation Study for Development of Bottomlands in the
Northern Region
BL.  "Intervention et Amenagement des Bas-Fonds dans
la Region du Nord"; March 1983.                         (2a)
B2.  "Intervention et Amenagement des Bas-Fonds dans
la Region du Nord, Complement Agro-Economique du
Bas-Fonds de Kamtchouki"; April 1983.                    (2b)
C.   Preparation Studies for Bullock Fattening
Cl.  "Project FSAR II, Fiche Technique du Sous-Projet
Embouche Bovine"; 1981.                                 (3a)
C2.  "La Recherche Embouche Bovine dans les Monts du
Mandara Nord-Cameroun, Rapport Partiel"; 1981.           (3b)
C3.  "Projet de Developpement de l'Embouche Bovine
dans les Monts Mandara"; 1981.                           (3c)
D.   Preparation Report for Groundnut Marketing and Shelling
Sub-Project
"Sous Projet Decorticage et Stockage Arachide";
June 1983.                                                    (4)
E.   Preparation Reports for Functional Literacy for Village
Groups
El. "Sous-Projet Alphabetisation Fonctionelle dans
les GVP"; November 1982.                                (5a)
E2. "Groupements Villageois Pre-Cooperatifs";
October 1982.                                           (5b)
F.   Terms of Reference for Vegetable Marketing Study
"Projets FSAR II, Cultures Maratch6res, Fiche de
Projet, Termes de Reference"; March 1983.                     (6)



(iv)
Documents contained in the Project File (continued)                       File
Code
G.   Preparation Report for Bottomlands Development for
Vegetable Production Around Yaounde
"Amenagement des Bas-Fonds pour la Culture Maralchhre
autour de Yaounde"; March 1983.                                 (7)
H.  Preparation Reports for the Access Road Sub-projcet
HI. "Construction de Pistes de Desserte dans la
Zone de la SODECAO"; March 1983.                          (8a)
H2.  "Construction de Pistes de Desserte dans la
Zone de la SODECAO"; June 1983.                           (8b)
I.   Terms of Reference for Study to Train Modern Rural
Blacksmiths
"Formation et Installation des Artisans Ruraux";
1983.                                                          (10)
J.   Detailed Project Cost Tables (1983)
K.   Staff Working Paper for Rural Water Supply (1983)
(Includes draft organigram of proposed rural water
supply institutions, draft terms of reference for
proposed consultants, and draft contract for village
borehole maintenance.)                                          (11)
L.   Staff Working Paper for Bottomlands Devel
the North (1983)                                                     (12)
M.   Staff Working Paper for Access Roads (1983)                          (13)
N.   Draft Operation Agreement Between FONADER/RDF and Project
Executing Agency (1983)
(Example of agreement with SEMRY for bottomlands
development.)                                                   (14)
0.   Detailed Farm Budgets (1983)
(Bottomlands development North, bullock fattening,
bottomlands development Yaounde, farms in feeder
road area.)                                                     (15)
P.   Economic Analysis and Rate of Return Calculations (1983)             ([6)
Q.   Organigrams of Main Executing Agencies (1983)
(SEMRY, SODECOTON, SODECAO, MIDEVIV.)                          (17)



CAMEROON
SECOND RTJRAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:              Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER)
Amount:                   US$25.5 million.
Terms:                    Standard IBRD terms
Flow of Loan Proceeds:   US$25.5 million as grant to FONADER's Rural
Development Fund (RDF) account, of which US$22.4
million for appraised sub-projects, US$3.0 million
as line of credit for as yet unidentified sub-
projects, and US$0.1 million for studies.
Project Description:      The project would support two important Government
objectives-
a) strengthening rural development institutions
at national, provincial and village levels;
b) improving living conditions and incomes in
rural areas through the implementation of
selected high priority rural operations,
not being undertaken under existing projects
and programs and for which no alternative
financing is readily available.
To achieve these objectives, the project would
provide financing for:
-   Institutional development, i.e., the
strengthening of agricultural planning,
project preparation and appraisal capacity
at the regional level; the strengthening
of RDF management at central and regional
levels; three priority studies; and a line
of credit for small-scale, high priority rural
activities to be identified and designed
to complement on-going rural development
programs.



(vi)
Identified sub-projects, i.e., bottomlands
development in the north; rural water supply
(drilling of 1,000 boreholes); bullock-fattening;
groundnut marketing and shelling; functional
literacy training; bottomlands development around
Yaounde; and access roads construction and
maintenance (350 km).
Benefits and Risks
The main benefits would be the further strengthening of
Government's capability to prepare and execute small-scale rural projects;
the creation of a sound institutional and policy framework for rural water
supply; and substantial benefits from directly productive components.  In
addition, the rural water supply sub-project alone would provide some
350,000 beneficiaries with clean drinking water.
The project has two sources of risk:
(a) inadequate management, both in RDF and in sub-project executing
agencies; to reduce this risk, agencies have been carefully
selected on the basis of their satisfactory past performance and
would receive technical assistance as appropriate; and
(b) loss of momentum in the formulation and implementation of a rural
water policy; to avoid this, technical assistance would be
provided  to  the  responsible  sectoral  institution,   regular
exchanges  of  views  would  take  place  with  the  Bank,  and
disbursements against borehole drilling and pump supply contracts
would be conditional upon adoption of satisfactory measures for
beneficiaries' participation.



(vii)
Estimated Costs:                          Local    Foreign    Total        % of
-------  IS$ million ------   Base Costs
Institutional Development
Strengthening of Ag. Planning            0.4        0.8        1.2        3
Strengthening of RDF Management
- Headquarters                        0.6        1.0        1.6        4
- SOFSAR                              3.9        5.5       9.4        22
Priority Studies                          0.4       0.1        0.5        1
Line of Credit                            3.0       3.0        6.0       14
Identified Sub-Projects
Bottomlands Dev. in the North             0.4       0.4        0.8        2
Rural Water Supply                        6.1      11.2       17.3       41
Bullock-Fattening                         0.0       0.0        0.0        -
Groundnut Marketing and Shelling          0.3       0.3        0.6        2
Functional Literacy Training              0.2       0.4        0.6        1
Bottomlands Dev. Around Yaounde           0.3       0.2        0.5        1
Access Roads                              2.0       2.0        4.0        9
Total Base Costs                            17.6      24.9       42.5      100
Contingencies
-  Physical                             1.0       1.8       2.8
-  Price                               6.2        5.1      11.3
'Total Costs                                24.8      31.8       56.6
Less:  Operating Costs for the
first RDF Project during
Execution of the second project      5.9        6.3      12.2
Total Project Costs                         18.9      25.5       44.4
(of which taxes)                 (3.3)         -      (3.3)
Total Financing Required                    18.9      25.5       44.4
Financing Plan
Government                                18.1         -       18.1
Beneficiaries                              0.8         -        0.8
IBRD                                         -      25.5       25.5
Total                                       18.9      25.5       44.4



(vii _)
Estimated Disbursement (US$ million)
FY86      FY87       FY88       FY89       FY90      FY91     FY92
Annual           1.6        5.8       6.1        6.0        4.0       1.7      0.3
Cumulative       1.6        7.4       13.5      19.5       23.5      25.2    25.5
Economic Rate of Return:  22% on directly productive sub-projects (representing
19% of project costs).
Map:  IBRD 17362



CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
The Government of the Republic of Cameroon has requested IBRD
assistance in financing a second Rural Development Fund (RDF) project.
This project would follow the basic philosophy of the First Rural Develop-
ment Fund Project (Cr. 723-CM of August 4, 1977) which aimed at developing
local capability to prepare, appraise, and finance small-scale, but high-
priority rural development projects. The project area (Map IBRD 17362)
would be extended from four departments to the entire northern region and
would also include limited interventions in the Center and South Provinces
as a cautious step toward eventually extending its operations nationwide.
Identified sub-projects for RDF financing were prepared by Cameroonian
institutions entirely or, in some cases, with technical assistance inputs,
in consultation with the IBRD preparation missions of November 1982 and
March 1983. Appraisal took place in May 1983, and negotiations (started in
July 1984) were concluded in April 1985.
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Country
1.01      Cameroon is located on the gulf of Guinea and bordered by Nigeria
to the West, by Chad and the Central African Republic to the East and by
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Congo to the South. It covers 475,000 km2
with a population estimated at 9.3 million (1983), growing at an annual
rate of 3.2%. The capital is Yaounde, with about 500,000 inhabitants;
although about two-thirds of the total population lives in rural areas, it
is expected that Cameroon's population will be equally divided between
rural areas and urban centers by the year 2000.
B. The Economy
1.02      Over the past 15 years, Cameroon has experienced rapid economic
growth. The real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate during the
Second Development Plan (1966-1971) averaged 4.2%; in the Third
(1971-1976)t it rose to 4.6%; and in the Fourth (1976-1981), it is
estimated at over 10.0%.  The GDP is currently estimated at US$6.9 billion,
representing a per capita income of UIS$880 in 1982.
1.03      The Cameroonian economy is also experiencing the most rapid
structural transformation in its history as a result of rising production
and export of petroleum.  Prior to the exploitation of oil, Cameroon was
dependent on agricultural products for the bulk of its foreign exchange
earnings. Even as late as 1977/78, agricultural commodities accounted for



- 2 -
78% of all export earnings, with cocoa and coffee alone accounting for 53%.
However, oil exports, which represented about 1% of total exports in
1977/78, rose to some 63% in 1983, while agricultural exports fell to about
37% in 1980/81 and 28% in 1983. Similar, although less dramatic, shifts
have occurred in the structure of domestic production. Between 1978 and
1981, agricultural production (including forestry and fisheries) fell from
32% to 26% of GDP, while oil production rose from less than 0.5% of GDP to
over 11%. These trends continued during 1982 and 1983 and have resulted in
structural changes that are likely to persist well into the 1990s.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.04        Cameroon's diversified agricultural sector (including forestry
and fisheries) provides a livelihood for about 70% of the labor force. The
sector, divided in a rather dualistic manner between traditional
agriculture and industrial plantations, covers approximately
2.5 million ha, or 16% of the country's cultivable area. Traditional
agriculture, with its one million smallholdings of about 2 ha each,
accounts for over 93% of agricultural production, grown both for
subsistence and the domestic market.  Cocoa, coffee and cotton are produced
for export. Livestock production, mainly by nomadic and semi-nomadic
pastoralists in the north and in the northwest, accounts for about 15% of
the traditional agriculture production. The industrial plantations consist
of several large, predominantly Government-owned plantations mainly
producing palm oil and sugar (principally for domestic consumption) and
rubber for export.
1.05      There are large regional variations in cropping patterns and
population densities, leading to marked regional disparities in rural
incomes. In the cocoa and coffee producing areas of the south, the average
per capita rural income is about US$220. In the Western Highlands (maize
and coffee) and parts of the Northern Province (mainly sorghum), where
population densities rise to over 200/km2, it is only US$140. The average
per capita income in agriculture is low compared to the national average
income. These disparities are a source of increasing concern to Government
which recognizes the importance of agriculture for the long-term stability
of the economy.
1.06      Although Cameroon is largely food self-sufficient, cereal
imports, mainly wheat and rice for urban consumption, have risen sharply
since 1970. Potential may exist for increasing rice production, but
climatic conditions do not favor wheat growth. Cameroon will, therefore,
continue to import wheat, and this importation is expected to account for
25% of all cereals consumed by the year 2000. While there is in general no
acute food problem in Cameroon, the demand will continue to increase due to
urbanization. In the Fifth Development Plan (1981-1986) greater emphasis
has thus been placed on foodcrop production. To avoid an adverse impact of
growing oil revenues on agricultural production, Government's initial
budget for the Fifth Plan increased the share of the agricultural sector to
24% of the total planned investment, thus reversing the relative shares of
the agricultural and the energy/industrial sectors allocated in the Fourth
Plan.



-3-
D. Sectoral Institutions
1. Agriculture
1.07      Under Government's policy, the implementation of agricultural
development is generally carried out by parastatal and Government agencies,
while the central services of the Ministry of Agriculture ("Ministere de
l'Agriculture" - MINAGRI) focus on policy-making, planning, budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation.
1.08      Among the development agencies, some are crop and/or area
specific: the Cocoa Development Company ("Soci6t6 de Developpement du
Cacao" - SODECAO) is responsible for smallholder cocoa production and
general development in the Center and South Provinces; the Cotton
Development Company ("Socifte de Developpement du Coton" - SODECOTON) and
the Agency for the Promotion and Modernization of Rice Cultivation
("Socifte d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture" - SEMRY) are
respectively responsible for cotton and rice production and integrated
development in the northern region. Other agencies are specialized along
functional lines: examples are the Foodcrop Development Agency ("Mission
de Developpement des Cultures Vivri6res" - MIDEVIV) for foodcrop, seed
multiplication and vegetable development, and the National Center for Study
and Experimentation for Agricultural Machinery ("Centre National d'Etudes
et d'Experimentation du Machinisme Agricole" - CENEEMA), for testing and
extension of agricultural machinery and equipment, including intermediate
technology and the training of mechanics.
1.09      The broadest mandate was given to the National Fund for Rural
Development ("Fonds National de Developpement Rural" - FONADER),
established in 1973 to organize and supervise both rural development
programs and agricultural credit operations. FONADER is legally a separate
financial entity, under the tutelage of MINAGRI, but with administrative
autonomy. It operates from its Yaounde headquarters but has been
decentralizing its activities since 1978. However, it still relies on
other Government field services for supervision and execution of activities
for which it provides direct and credit financing.
1.10      By contrast with these development agencies, which have financial
and operational autonomy, the services of MINAGRI at the provincial and
departmental levels are hampered by insufficient and inadequately trained
personnel, and by the lack of coherent work programs and the means to
implement them. A program for financing urgent, small and diversified
rural needs which are not being met under existing projects and programs is
essential to complement on-going activities by the rural development
agencies. Creating a mechanism to that effect was a major objective of the
first RDF Project. Under the mechanism set-up, funds are provided for
small sub-projects (of a directly-productive, infrastructural or social
nature) aimed at removing development bottlenecks.



-4-
2. Rural Water Supply
1.11      The rural water supply sector lacks a coherent national policy
framework providing for (a) the efficient functioning of existing wate:
points; (b) self-financing mechanisms to ensure replicability and eventcual
countryside coverage; and (c) rational long-term development.
Institutional responsibilities are split between three ministries, i.e.,
the Ministry of Planning and Regional Development ("Ministere du Plan et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire" - MINPAT), the Ministry of Agriculture, and
ithe Ministry of Mines and Energy ("Ministere des Mines et de l'Energie" -
MINMEN) for construction, operation and maintenance. Government has been
concerned with this situation and has established a National Water
Committee ("Comit6 National de l'Eau" - CNE), a high level interministerial
body with the dual mandate of (i) developing and implementing a rural water
policy based on the principle of beneficiaries' contribution to the
operation, maintenance and renewal costs of water points; and (ii)
planning, coordination and supervision of all future rural water
interventions. The second RDF project would support the technical work of
the Committee and serve as a vehicle to implement its policy proposals
(para 5.08).
E.  Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
lnvolvement and Lending Strategy
1.12      Since 1967 the Bank Group involvement in agricultural projects
amounted to 21 loans and credits (US$337.4 million). The largest single
group of projects (11) have been in the tree crop subsector (oil palm,
cocoa and rubber); the other projects have concerned rural development
(4 projects), livestock (2 projects), rice production (2 projects),
forestry (1 project) and the Rural Development Fund (1 project).
Government's performance in implementing these projects has been mixed.
The implementation of the Second Livestock, the ZAPI and the Oil
Palm/Rubber Rehabilitation Projects was hampered by serious organizational,
managerial and financial problems, but major improvements have been made
last year. Government's performance in implementing the other projects has
been generally good and achievements have been satisfactory. The lending
program includes three new projects which have been appraised: the second
RDF project, the National Agricultural Research project, and the
Center-South Region Rural Development project; two are under preparation: a
National Extension and Training project and the Littoral Province Rural
Development project.
The First RDF Project
1.13      The main objective of the first RDF Project was to help develop
and strengthen the planning capacity within units of MINAGRI and to train
staff involved in rural development to increase their capability of
carrying out development projects. The main function of the RDF office was
to administer and channel funds to small-scale priority rural development
interventions in the four departments of Cameroon's northern region; it was
nct supposed to concern itself with project execution but only with project



- 5 -
financing. Well defined sub-projects were identified and costed, and funds
were also provided for unidentified activities to be defined and prepared
during project execution. The project was approved by the Board on June
30, 1977, and became effective on January 30, 1978. Due to early
management problems and slow disbursements, the original Credit closing
date of December 31, 1981, was extended to December 31, 1982, and then once
again to December 31, 1983.
1.14      Despite initial delays in execution, the Project has achieved a
satisfactory physical performance. At project completion 1,400 wells had
been renovated (100%); 60 wells capped (100%); 230 positive boreholes
drilled (53%); 315 manual pumps installed (64%); 4 small dams constructed
(40%); 1,100 cattle fattening credits allocated (55%); 60 market garden
loans made (100%); and 300 ha of bottomlands developed (100%). The fund
for unidentified activities started being utilized in 1982 with the
identification of several high priority interventions, mainly in vegetable
production. Under the reasonably strong and generally well-organized
FONADER's operational division ("Service des Operations du Fonds Special
d'Actions Rurales" - SOFSAR), costs were tightly controlled.
Bullock-fattening credit repayments have reached over 80% and the pump and
well maintenance in the north has been satisfactorily carried out.
1.15      However, the creation of a regional agriculture planning and
small project preparation capacity was less successful, as the Project
concentrated mainly on physical activities and on the building of its
management structure. Instead of following its original terms of reference
as supplier and controller of funds, SOFSAR has become too deeply involved
in sub-project execution (para 1.13). Although this was not the RDF
Project intention, it was probably inevitable, since its executing agencies
for sub-projects were mostly Government units, such as the Rural Works
Department ("Genie Rural" - GR), the Ground Water Project ("Projet des Eaux
Souterraines" - PES), and agricultural extension services. These units did
not have the established financial management capacity required and,
consequently, the Project became involved in the day-to-day operations of
some of these units to ensure a better control of the use of funds,
Clearly, these Government units for sub-project execution could not perform
satisfactorily and important lessons have been learned to improve the
implementation set-up of the second RDF project. However, the overall
performance of the first RDF Project has been satisfactory and justifies
the Bank's continued support to this important activity.
1.16      The first RDF Project, which was carried out in the same area as
the Northern Province Rural Development Project (Cr./Ln. 1075/1919-CM of
January 27, 1981), has also had the beneficial impact of providing new, and
rehabilitating existing, water points for the farming community, thereby
freeing cotton and foodcrop farmers and their families from the
time-consuming task of fetching drinking water in often far away streams.
In that respect, the Rural Water Supply (RWS) sub-project of the second RDF
project would complement the activities of the on-going Northern Province
Rural Development Project; moreover, part of the line of credit for
unidentified sub-projects could also serve to finance some isolated, small
rural infrastructure interventions considered essential for a better
implementation of the project (para 3.11).



- 6 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      The first RDF Project covered four departments of the then
Northern Province. In line with Government's strategy to eventually extend
RDF-type operations nationwide, the area would be gradually extended under
the second project to cover the entire northern region and some areas of
the Center and South Provinces. These two areas have been selected
because of their priority needs and the presence of competent sub-project
executing agencies (Chapter IT).
A. The northern region
2.02      The region covers 164,000 km2 (35% of the national territory) and
extends from 7° to 130 northern latitude. It is divided into 14
administrative departments. Its population is estimated at 2.6 million
(29% of national total), of which 85% is rural. Its average density of 16
inhabitants/km2 is slightly lower than the national figure (20/km2). The
population density varies greatly among departments: 70/km2 in Diamare and
Mayo Sava, 82/km2 in Mayo Tsanaga in the north, but only 6/km2 in M'bam et
Djerem and Benoue in the south. The region has the lowest school
enrollment rate of the country (31% in 1976, as compared with 59 to 92% for
the other provinces), which poses serious problems to community
organization and village self-administration.
2.03      Topography is varied and includes the Adamaoua Plateau in the
south, the Benoue plain in the center, the Mandara and Atlantika mountains
in the northwest, and the vast Chad plain in the northeast. Altitude is
high in the south and east, with peaks reaching over 2,000 m, and large
highland plateaux around 1,000 m (Adamaoua), but drops toward the north
across the Benoue plain to reach 300 to 400 m in the plain of Chad.
Similarly, annual rainfall is high in the south (N'gaoundere 1,570 mm in
153 days) and drops in the northern direction (Garoua 1,000 mm in 83 days,
Maroua 750 mm in 77 days, Kousseri 540 mm in 50 days). The wet season
lasts over five months (May to October). Half of the rainfall occurs in
July and August. At Maroua, in the center of the second RDF project area,
the mean maximum temperature reaches about 40°C in March-April and falls to
a mean minimum of about 18'C in December-January. Evaporation from January
to April accounts for 50% of the annual total.
2.04      The predominant vegetation is a mixed tree and shrub savannah,
typical of the Sudano-Sahelian zone, with a grassy swamp vegetation in the
seasonally flooded depressions ("yaeres").  The heavy resident and
transhumant cattle population has led to overgrazing of the vegetation in
the plains, and the encroachment of agriculture has resulted in the
degradation of the original light tree cover.
2.05      Apart from some tourism (three National Parks and the Mandara
Mountains), agriculture and livestock husbandry is the main economic
activity of the region. Sorghum and millet are the principal foodcrops
and, where soils retain sufficient moisture, two crops are grown, one ir.



the rainy season and the second in the dry season. Total annual production
of sorghum and millet averages 415,000 tons (1980). Seed cotton (about
80,000 tons), and groundnuts (about 40,000 tons) (both 1980) are the
region's most important cash crops. The cattle population, estimated at
3 million (1980), represents about 83% of the national total. The use of
draft animals is widespread in the cotton producing areas. The average
area cultivated is estimated at 2 ha per family, and the average farm
family size at 5 persons.
2.06      The agricultural potential of the region is still underutilized
and areas with urgent needs for further development in terms of
infrastructure and agricultural production have been identified. The
region has more than 20,000 ha of bottomlands whose soil and hydrology
conditions are suitable for simple water control measures and improved crop
and vegetable production. These areas are often bordered by large villages
that are unable to exploit the bottomlands potential without the necessary
help. They are entirely dependent on upland crops which often seriously
suffer from climatic hazards.
2.07      In the north-western mountains, which are economically among the
poorer areas of the country, suitable conditions exist for cattle fattening
as a means to improve the low living standards of the densely settled
population. In some remote groundnut producing areas, insufficient
marketing facilities constrain further development. The southernmost part
of the region has never benefitted from serious development efforts,
despite rather favorable conditions for crop and cattle production.
Furthermore, in the seven northernmost departments the critical lack of
potable water supply hampers development efforts and human health.
2.08      The villagers traditionally form village councils, headed by the
chief who is the community's representative to the outside world and to
Government. He may organize village development committees and collect
contributions for specific village projects. A tradition of mutual aid
does exist in the communities: substantial sums have been collected by
villagers for building a school or a village well and voluntary labor has
been offered. Although about 16 tribes live in the region, only two main
ethnic groups are found, the Islamic group and the non-Muslims. Among the
former, the most important is the Foulbe, concentrated around Garoua,
Maroua, Bogo and Mindif. They are primarily livestock raisers, but some
are also settled agriculturists. Among the non-Muslims, the most prominent
are the Toupouri and the Moundang, settled south of Maroua and in the Guider
and Kaele areas. They form the most advanced group of agriculturists.
2.09      In the areas proposed for bottomlands improvement, land is held
and distributed according to custom (family size and needs) by the
traditional chief. Once land is allocated, the family can enjoy security
of tenure over its share as long as it continues to use it in a reasonably
sound way. Therefore, land tenure should not be a problem.
2.10      The road network is developed quite unevenly. Two important paved
roads, in good condition, exist in the region: one in the south from West
to East between Tibati and Meiganga (260 km), and one from South to North,
linking N'gaoundere with Garoua, Maroua, Mora, and Maltam (740 km). The
highest density of secondary roads is in the six central and most populated
departments of Mayo Tsanaga, Mayo Sava, Diamare, Mayo Danay, Kaele and Mayo



Louti. The lowest road network is in the extreme north (Logone et Chari)
and south (Adamaoua). Major airports are in N'gaoundere, Garoua and
Maroua. The railhead of the Douala-Yaounde railroad is located in
N'gaoundere.
B. The Center and South Provinces
,.ll      The Provinces cover 120,000 km2, between 20 and 6° in northern
latitude and 10° to 150 in east longitude. Their population is estimated
at 2.1 million, giving an average density of 18/km2. The main cocoa
growing area, which coincides with the area under SODECAO's
responsibility, is situated on the plateau of South Cameroon, at an
altitude of 600 to 700 m. Conditions are well suited for cocoa, except
that humidity and relatively low temperatures at certain times of the year
favor the development of blackpod disease. The soils are deep, highly
leached and well drained but have a low chemical fertility, except for a
shallow surface rich in vegetative matters; therefore they need fertilizers
to support sustained food crop yields.
2.12      The climate is tropical, with a bimodal rainfall over most of the
area and one dry season of four months (November to March). The average
annual rainfall ranges from 1,500 mm to 1,800 mm; rainfall is 2,500 mm in
the northwestern part of the Center Province, which has no dry spell.
Average monthly temperatures vary little over the year and range between
22%C and 24°C.
7.13      The rural population is estimated at 1.2 million (57% of total).
Cocoa provides the family's basic cash income.  Another increasingly
important source of income is the production of foodcrops for sale in the
urban markets. The average area cultivated per farm in the Provinces is
2.6 ha, of which a little under 2 ha is planted with cocoa. Land belongs
to the community, with the right of usufruct extended to the individual who
cultivates it. Sufficient land is available for new farm development,
eventually to be opened by access roads, and land tenure is not likely to
be a problem.
2.14      The road network consists of about 300 km of paved roads and some
6,000 km of secondary roads varying in quality from all-weather gravel
with a sufficient layer of compacted lateritic surface to lighter designs.
Tho important paved national highways are under constructioni: one from
Yaounde to the port of Douala (some 260 km), the other to Bafoussam (some
330 kkm). In the past, secondary roads deteriorated due to a lack of funds
for maintenance. Beginning with the implementation of the Bank-financed
First Highway Project (Cr. 126 of February 1970), allocations have been
gradually increased and maintenance has improved. However, the need fo.,
nalw access roads and for the maintenance of existing ones remains
particularly acute in the vicinity of the densely populated areas around
Vaound6T, in order to open up new areas for settlement and improve rural
life. The access roads sub-project would assist in addressing these
problems (paras 3.43-3.47).



III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.01      The project would support two important Government objectives:
(a)  strengthening rural development institutions at national,
provincial and village levels;
(b)  improving living conditions and incomes in rural areas through
the implementation of selected high priority rural operations,
not being undertaken under existing projects and programs and for
which no alternative financing is readily available.
3.02      To achieve these objectives the project would provide financing
for:
- Institutional Development covering:
(a) the strengthening of regional agricultural planning, project
preparation and appraisal capacity;
(b) the strengthening of RDF management at the central and
regional levels;
(c) the execution of three priority studies; and
(d)  the establishment of a line of credit for small, high
priority rural activities to be identified under the
project to complement on-going rural development programs.
= Identified Sub-Projects covering:
(a) the development of about 1,000 ha of bottomlands for rice
and sorghum cultivation under partial water control in the
northern region;
(b) the drilling of about 1,000 boreholes for rural water
supply;
(c) a bullock-fattening scheme for about 2,000 farmers;
(d) the support of groundnut marketing and shelling;
(e) the functional literacy training of village groups;
(f) the pilot development of about 20 ha of bottomlands for
vegetable production around Yaounde; and
(g) the construction and maintenance of about 350 km of access
roads in the SODECAO area.



- 10 -
1. Institutional Development
(a) The strengthening of agricultural planning
3.03      A clear need has been identified to strengthen Cameroon's agri-
cultural planning capacity both at the central and regional levels. At the
central level, the second Technical Cooperation Project (Cr. U168 of
November 5, 1981) aims at reinforcing the central planning capacity of the
Studies and Projects Department ("Direction des Etudes et Projets" - DEP)
at MINAGRI, by providing specialized technical assistance and training.
The second RDF project would complement these efforts by establishing two
regional planning units within the Provincial Agricultural Offices
("D616gation Provinciale d'Agriculture" - DPA) in Garoua and in Yaounde.
To this end, two internationally recruited agro-economists, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, would be financed
under the project for a total of six man-years. DEP would be responsible
for (a) the selection, the recruitment and the supervision of these staff,
whose main terms of reference would be to identify, prepare and appraise
high-priority, small-scale rural development projects; and (b) the
in-service training of six Cameroonian agro-economists with appropriate
academic qualifications.
3.04      These two regional planning units would establish, for purposes
of identification and preparation of priority rural interventions, close
contacts and cooperation with Regional Development Societies (RDS) where
present; with provincial and departmental MINAGRI offices, such as GR, the
Department of Community Development ("Departement du Developpement
Communautaire"' - DDC), the large network of agricultural and livestock
extension services and, last but not least, the administrative and
political authorities. Sub-projects considered technically and
economically viable, and approved by the Provincial Agricultural Officer
would thereafter be submitted to MINAGRI for review and final approval.
Such sub-projects would be financed either from the line of credit for
unidentified activities out of the IBRD loan (para 3.11), or other external
financing, or from the national budget--or from a combination of both. The
salaries of the above incremental professional staff, as well as transport,
office facilities, equipment, and operating costs (including formal
overseas training of competent Cameroonian staff) would be financed under
these sub-projects.
(b) The strengthening of RDF management
3.05      The increased complexity of the second RDF project, the greater
emphasis on institution building, and the increased importance and larger
number of sub-projects to be carried out require the strengthening of RDF
management by the second project through the international recruitment of
(a) a financial controller and an agricultural/rural engineer for RDF
headquarters; and (b) a senior accountant and a workshop manager for SOFSAR
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. The assumption
of duties of the financial controller and senior accountant would be a
condition of effectiveness (para 8.02(a)). Costs for this sub-project also
include salaries for counterpart and support staff, fellowships for



- it -
necessary training abroad, domestic travel allowances, office facilities
and running costs. RDF's organizational structure and staffing are given
in paras 5.02-5.06.
(c) Priority studies
3.06      The second RDF project would initially provide financing for
three studies and, possibly, supplement financing for further high priority
studies under the line of credit for unidentified sub-projects (para 3.11).
3.07      The first study, to be carried out in PYl, would be on vegetable
marketing in the northern region to assess the production, production
potential, consumption and marketing prospects for vegetables, mainly
around major urban centers, such as N'gaoundere, Garoua, Maroua and
Kousseri. This study was prompted by the positive experience of the first
RDF Project in supporting onion production in the Maroua area; however, the
increased production caused some storage, evacuation and marketing problems
and on occasion resulted in temporary surpluses. The study would basically
define the market absorption potential and look into the possibility of
diversification into other crops such as melons, cabbage and various local
vegetables. Provided that market prospects are favorable, further
expansion of vegetable production--for which suitable conditions exist in a
number of areas in the northern region--would be financed under the line of
credit. Terms of reference for this study have been prepared by SEMRY and
found satisfactory by the Bank (Project File No. 129859(6)). The second
RDF project would provide five man-months of consultancy services to carry
out this study. SEMRY would be responsible for hiring the consultants and
supervising the preparation of the study.
3.08      The second study concerns the preparation of a feasibility report
for a rural development project in the Adamaoua Province, which comprises
the southernmost part of the northern region. The Adamaoua plateau has a
good potential for foodcrop and livestock production, but has inadequate
extension services, agricultural input supply and rural infrastructure,
The terms of reference for this study would be prepared in PYI by DEP
(MINAGRI), which would also be responsible for the hiring and supervision
of the necessary consultants, satisfactory to the Bank. Field work for the
feasibility study could then be carried out at the end of the rainy season
and beginning of the dry season, when conditions are best for assessing
development potential and needs. An estimated 16 man-months of consultancy
services would be required to carry out the study.
3.09      The third study concerns the training of blacksmiths in the rural
areas of Cameroon. The traditional blacksmiths with rudimentary tools and
a limited assortment of implements can no longer cope with the agricultural
and domestic requirements of some fast developing rural areas, such as the
densely populated area around Yaounde in the Center Province.   Although
this training need has been identified, the scope of the activities
necessary have not been quantified. It is therefore envisaged that CENEEMA
commission a study to (a) assess the requirements for production of



- 12 -
agricultural tools and implements, and the size of the market; (b)
establish an inventory of existing rural workshops and their level of
competence and equipment; (c) determine the precise needs for supplementary
workshops and the level of technical training required for those who would
operate them; and (d) prepare detailed proposals for the training program,
including organization, syllabuses and suggestions on how CENEEMA, with the
help of FONADER in providing credit for workshop equipment, could help in
the settling of the trainees, including monitoring and evaluation of
performance of former trainees. Based on the results of the study, CENEEMA
would undertake a pilot training program of modern rural blacksmiths,
recruited predominantly from families of traditional rural artisans. The
pilot training component would be financed under the line of credit for
unidentified activities. Satisfactory terms of reference (Project File No.
129859(9)) have been prepared for the study to be carried out in PYI and
would involve about seven man-months of consultancy services.
3.10      Provision is also included under the second project for about: 15
man-months of consultancy services (possibly local consultants or
miniversity staff) for the preparation of a possible follow-up project and
of the second RDF project completion report. They would be recruited by
PRF in PY3 under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) Line of credit
3.11      Given the improved use of funds toward the end of the first RDF
Project under the modest line of credit, the second project would provide a
more substantial line of credit of US$6.0 million, or about 14% of total
costs, to finance future sub-projects to be identified, prepared and
appraised according to criteria acceptable to the Bank. These sub-projects
would be identified and prepared by MINAGRI's regional planning units (para
33.04) e but initiated and implemented mainly by SEMRY, SODECOTON, MIDEVIV
and SODECAO, which all have proven project planning and executing
-apability (paras 5.20-5.27). These sub-projects would be mainly small,
productive activities, such as extension of vegetable production around
major urban areas, and continuation of bottomlands development and small
livestock development; further sub-projects would concern minor
i-nfrastructure works, su.ac as bridges, submersible river crossings,
essential sections of access roads, field stores, and rural water points.
Last but not least, the line of credit would finance sub-projects
addressing priority needs for applied research, studies, and training.
3.712     To speed up processing, all appraised sub-projects of up to
US$150,000 would be reviewed by the Bank ex post, with only those over
US$150,000 submitted to the Bank for approval ex ante. A ceiling of
US$750,000 equivalent would be allowed per sub-project.  Additional
selection criteria are:
-    the economic rate of return for production-oriented
sub-projects would be at least 15%;



- 13 -
-    expenditures for indirectly productive activities (for which
no economic rate of return can be calculated because bene-
fits are non-quantifiable) would not exceed US$3.0 million
of the line of credit; and
-    expenditures for sub-projects outside the project area would
not exceed US$1.0 million.
3.13      All sub-projects would be submitted to DEP (MINAGRI) for review
and, after approval by the Ministry, handed over to RDF for financing. The
US$6.0 million line of credit would be made available by Government in the
tranches required to finance approved sub-projects, starting in PY2 as
follows: PY2, CFAF 490 million (US$1.0 million); PY3, CFAF 735 million
(US$1.5 million); PY4, CFAF 980 million (US$2.0 million); and PY5, CFAF 735
million (US$1.5 million). Although it is not presently possible to
determine an exact regional allocation, about one half of the line of
credit would be earmarked for sub-projects in the northern region and the
other half for those in the Center and South Provinces. To that extent six
Cameroonian agro-economists would be selected for formal training in
agricultural project identification, preparation and appraisal, with an
emphasis on economic and financial analyses and evaluation. This formal
training would take place in PYI and PY2, and could be carried out, for
example, during the 10-month courses given by the French Agency for
Economic Cooperation ("Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique" - CCCE).
After their return to Cameroon, these staff would be posted to the two DPA
offices (para 3.04) to undergo further on-the-job training under the
supervision of the two technical assistance staff.
2. Identified Sub-Projects
(a) Bottomlands Development in the North
3.14      Between the sand dunes of the Extreme North, "yaeres" are found,
in which run-offs collect, stagnate, and gradually drain away, or evaporate
or infiltrate the shallow aquifers.  Floods reach their highest levels in
August/September, then drop sharply over a 2-3 week period, and thereafter
the losses due to evaporation and percolation in December/January reduce
the flooded areas to insignificant pools.  The extent and duration of the
floods vary considerably from one "yaere" to another, depending on the
onset, concentration and duration of the rains.
3.15      Off-season late sorghum, locally called "mouskouari", is grown in
these swamps, making use of the residual moisture after the floods, Soils
are generally suited for swamp rice, which is cultivated traditionally by
local farmers. Yields vary considerably from year to year, depending on
flooding conditions. The local efforts at temporary water control have
generally proven inadequate and ineffective. Recent surveys, however, have
shown that in spite of the unpredictability of flooding conditions, major
±mprovements in crop production can be achieved by simple water control and
management works and measures, and improved agronomic practices. This
sub-project intends to pursue such activities.



- 14 -
3.16      Some 1,000 ha have been identified during recent surveys (of a
potential 23,000 ha) as being particularly suited for this type of
development. The sub-project would construct dykes to protect the cropped
area from excessive flooding by providing upstream water storage and
improved downstream drainage of 3 or 4 selected "yaeres" of 200-300 ha
each. Development costs would be US$590,000 or UIS$590 per cultivated
hectare.
3.17      Specifically, the sub-project would construct a compacted
earthern dyke to raise the natural sill or create an artificial one between
two "yaeres." The reservoir thus created in the upper part would serve as
water storage for the lower part when supplemental or renewed flooding is
required. The drainage outlet at the downstream end would be improved, and
simple control structures would be constructed at the reservoirs outlet: and
at the head of the central drain. Land preparation would include field
bunding and levelling to facilitate detailed water control measures by the
beneficiaries. Adaptive research by the Institute of Agricultural Research
("Institut de la Recherche Agronomique" - IRA), Maroua--initiated under the
existing Research Agreement between SEMRY and IRA and aiming at providing
improved varieties and better crop husbandry techniques to support swamp
rice and sorghum production--would be continued under the second RDF
project. SEMRY extension services (one agricultural assistant for each
bottomland) would continue to mobilize farmers participation, organize seed
multiplication and encourage the adoption of improved farming practices.
3.18      As in the SEMRY operation at Yagoua, the second project would
prefinance the development works, but all beneficiaries would be required
to pay in full for the services rendered based on a "cahier des charges"
between SEMRY and each farmer. At full development each cultivated hectare
would thus be subject to an annual charge of about CFAF 46,000 (US$94), or
about 40% of incremental net farm benefits. The current well-developed
SEMRY procedures for the collection and application of farmers'
contributions would be used. Land would be allotted to interested farmers
at the rate of one hectare per family, following the customary land tenure
arrangements of the area (paras 2.09 and 2.13). Priority would be given to
farmers who already cultivate, or have cultivated, the "yaere" land to be
developed.
(b) Rural Water Supply
3.19      The supply of drinking water for domestic and livestock use is a
serious problem throughout the northern region. Basic rural water
requirements, in particular in villages of up to 2,000 inhabitants, are far
from satisfied. Efforts under the first RDF Project and other smaller
interventions have helped to alleviate the problem, and a total of over
2,000 modern water points (mainly concrete wells) are now estimated to
serve the area. This corresponds to some 40% of the most urgent
requirements, based on a per capita consumption of 25 liters of water per
day. The rest of the population still depends on the traditional
unreinforced wells or dugouts. Furthermore, an estimated 40-50% of the
"modern" wells dry out several months before the start of the rainy season,



- 15 -
due to seasonal watertable declines of as much as 10 meters. Four surface
storage reservoirs were also constructed under the first RDF Project but
further construction had to be abandoned due to its questionable cost
effectiveness. Good results were achieved by the Project drilling program,
in that most of the 230 successful boreholes have sustained their original
yields.
3.20      It is evident, however, that if the basic Rural Water Supply
(RWS) needs are to be met in the foreseeable future, the current technology
and implementation rates will have to be changed drastically. The RWS
sub-project would aim at alleviating the most pressing potable water needs
of some 350,000 rural dwellers in the seven northernmost departments of the
country. Its specific objectives would be to (a) execute a large-scale RWS
program of handpump-equipped boreholes; (b) introduce a national policy
embodying the principle of beneficiaries' participation in rural water
supply; and (c) organize an effective maintenance system whose responsibil-
ity would be shared between Government and the village voluntary services.
3.21      The second RDF project would finance (a) the drilling of about
1,000 positive boreholes on contract to satisfy about one-third of the
remaining urgent needs; (b) 1,000 durable handpumps; (c) vehicles and
equipment for seven pump maintenance and repair brigades; (d) vehicles and
equipment for a RWS extension service to be established under the project;
and (e) the technical assistance and training required for the management
and operation of borehole drilling, and for advising Government on the
development of a national RWS program.
3.22      The RWS sub-project would be implemented over a four-year period,
of which the first year would be for preparatory activities and contract
negotiations (para 5.18). Costs are estimated at about FCFA 4.6 million
(US$9,400) per borehole, excluding technical assistance, training, and
physical and price contingencies. This cost is based on borehole costs in
neighboring countries and on those recently charged in Cameroon.
3.23      Areas deficient in drinking water have been identified during
preliminary surveys, and priorities have been set based on the available
information on RWS point densities. However, further detailed surveys
would be undertaken on a yearly basis, well in advance of drilling
operations, to determine the new RWS requirements, hydrogeological
conditions and new drilling sites; water quality tests would be conducted
in selected locations.   The Planning, Management and Control Unit (PMCU)
of SOFSAR would undertake these surveys and submit, by June 30 of each year
(four months before the start of each drilling year), annual implementation
schedules for some 300 positive boreholes to the prior review of all
parties concerned, including the Bank.
3.24      Boreholes would be sited by hydrogeological specialists, who
would make use of photogeological techniques followed by geophysical
manometric and electric resistivity depth probes. Problems may be
encountered in locating major water-bearing joints and lineaments in the
hard rock formations, particularly those of the Mandara Mountains.



- 16 -
H1owever, by using the above modern techniques, success rates of over 80%
can be reached in siting boreholes with satisfactory yields
Kil10-L.5 m3/hr).
3.25      Borehole drilling would be undertaken with modern and versatile
rigs, capable of rapid drilling using down-the-hole hammer percussion in
the hard rocks of the basement complex, and compressed air/rotary drilling
techniques in the alluvial formations. Two drilling teams with up to three
rigs each would thus be deployed, allowing for the possibility of engaging
a maximum of two contractors, if proven to be cost-effective: one for the
hard rock area (some 560 boreholes) and one for the alluvial area (440
boreholes). It is proposed to make use of turnkey contracts which wou'ld,
apart from borehole drilling and testing, cover the construction of
wellheads, the installation and testing of all pumps and tneir maintenance
during a one-year warranty period, and on-site training of village pump
caretakers. The boreholes would be drilled to an average depth of 45
meters. As a rule, they would be of small diameter (4-6" inside diameter --
ID) and equipped with hand pumps; a reduced number (some 20) would be
medium-size (8" ID), equipped with motorized pumps and storage tanks to
serve administrative centers. The number of boreholes (1,000) is
approximate and would be subject to increase or decrease (not exceeding
15%) during implementation, depending on bids received up to the total
capital funds provided.
3.26      Pumps would be purchased from prequalified pump suppliers, who
would be selected among manufacturers with a proven record of good business
and financial standing, and with the capacity to set up local agents and
spare parts distributors.  The pumps' useful life should be from three to
five years,
3.27      Pump suppliers would be required to give a warranty, other than
normal wear-and-tear, of one year for partial or full replacement, and to
indicate in their bids how provision wfould be made for the distribution of
spares for fast-wearing parts.  Outside the warranty, the beneficiaries
would be expected to assume financial responsibility for pump repair and
replacement (para 5.13).
(c) Bullock-Fattening
3s28      The main objective of this sub-project would be to increase the
cash incomes of the farmers in the Mandara Mountains, through sales of
fattened bullocks, and to improve their subsistence production of sorghum,
millet, and groundnuts through the application of cattle manure to their
fields. The second RDF project would provide the credit and extension
services (three and five agents, respectively), their transport and
operating costs, and the initial payment of a revolving fund. Out of the
revolving fund, to be financed by Government, credit would be provided over
the five project years to some 2,000 farmers within the triangle of Mokco c,
Mora and Meri in the Mandara Mountains, a rugged, overpopulated area with
infertile soils (one of the less developed and poorer areas of Cameroon).
The mountain population is estimated at 500,000 inhabitants, with densities



- 17 -
in some areas reaching up to 130/km2. This sub-project would be the
continuation of a component successfully developed under the first RDF
Project during which some 1,100 medium term credits were disbursed (about
400 in 1983) for the same purpose. The credit repayment was generally
good, standing at 80% in the fall of 1984. The farmers' interest in this
activity has been increasing, and the latest field reviews confirm that the
target of 2,000 is realistic.
3.29      The experience gained before and during the first RDF Project has
shown that traditional bullock-fattening is far too expensive, with a low
average lifeweight gain of around 100 grams per day or less; consequently,
it takes three to four years for an animal to reach slaughter weight. The
scheme implemented under the first Project has made appreciable progress
toward shortening the fattening period to two years, and applied research
financed during the first Project demonstrated that a further shortening to
one-and-a-half year is more economic. Technical recommendations have been
worked out along those lines, assuming that, under the impact of extension
advice and the demonstration effect of progressive farmers, more and more
farmers would opt for the shorter fattening period.
3.30      An analysis in terms of both weight and starch equivalent of
feedstuff has shown that sufficient fodder would be available on an average
size farm of about 1.5 ha of cultivated land to bring a bullock to
slaughtering weight in the proposed period. Labor availability for animal
care would not be a problem, since the area generally suffers from
underemployment. Even including bullock care, only about 50% of total
available family labor would be utilized over the year.
(d) Groundnut marketing and shelling
3.31      The Bank-financed Northern Province Rural Development Project
(para 1.16) made provisions for the intensification of groundnut production
for which the northern region has excellent growing conditions.
Agronomically, groundnuts fit ideally into the crop rotation with cotton
and sorghum, the other widely grown crops of the region. Consequently,
SODECOTON is promoting an increase in groundnut production in line with its
policy of diversifying from cotton only to foodcrops. The technological
package devised consists of the use of improved seed; seed dressing with
fungicides; more thorough seedbed preparation by ploughing and harrowing;
timely sowing; establishment of high density plant population; application
of phosphate fertilizer; and use of herbicides and aphicides, if required.
The results achieved through these improvements were better than expected.
In 1982, yields on almost 900 ha averaged around 2,000 kg/ha of unshelled
nuts, with peaks of 2,500 kg/ha (the appraisal estimate was 1,000 kg/ha).
This successful experience led SODECOTON to plan a further extension of the
improved groundnut area to 5,000 ha by end-1986, which would result in an
incremental production of about 10,000 tons of unshelled nuts.
3.32      The processing, evacuation and marketing of the increased
groundnut production have caused three main problems, which are likely to
become more serious as production further increases. First, manual



- 18 -
groundnut shelling is laborious, and the typical farm family is unable to
shell its average production of some 500 kg of nuts because of conflicts
with cotton production. Second, unshelled nuts are difficult to sell
because private traders buy only shelled nuts. Third, the private trade is
not sufficiently represented in some of the remote areas. At the same
time, the farmers are anxious to sell their groundnuts because they provide
the first cash income of the season (November/December); and cotton and
possible surpluses of sorghum come only several weeks or even months later
(January/March). Therefore, SODECOTON proposes to provide the much-needed
support to farmers by helping them directly in primary groundnut marketing
and evacuation.
3.33      In SODECOTON's improved groundnut production program, it is
estimated that after accounting for private sales, domestic consumption,
and seed retention some 50% of the incremental production (5,000 tons)
would remain unsold, unless measures are taken to evacuate this production.
To this end, the second RDF project would finance the construction of three
covered storage areas of 400 m2 each in strategic areas in the wetter
southeastern parts of SODECOTON's intervention zone, where late rains could
destroy the harvested crop (Touboro, Mayo Galke, and Garoua). Another four
fenced open-store areas, also of 400 km2 each, would be built in the
northern part (Maroua, Guider, Kaele, and Tchatibali), where there is no
threat of late rains. Two 25-ton trucks, similar to those used for cotton,
to transport the incremental production would also be financed under the
second project. Lastly, three mobile groundnut shellers, with a capacity
of 1,400 kg/hr, would be purchased to alleviate the shelling problem. An
estimated 50% of the shelled nuts would be resold by SODECOTON to private
traders. The remaining portion would be processed in SODECOTON's oil
extraction plants.
(e) Functional literacy training
3.34      In the SODECOTON area, 21 village groups were formed in 1980
mainly to assume responsibility for the primary marketing of cotton, which
is usually carried out by SODECOTON agents. The number has increased to
139 groups in 1982/83, which accounted for about 35% of the total volume of
cotton marketed. SODECOTON expects to bring the total number of groups to
250 in two or three years, which would market more than 50% of cotton and
most of the foodcrop surplus. These village groups are remunerated for
primary marketing by SODECOTON. Group remuneration for this activity would
enable village groups to undertake productive or social investments for the
benefit of all, which otherwise could not be realized.
3.35      The development of village groups is an important step toward
improving the living standards of the rural population through collective
action. Efforts to form and develop village groups, however, have been
constrained by the limited number of literate farmers (para 2.02). The
control over marketing and revenues by a few literate farmers poses the
risk of financial mismanagement and creates distrust among the other
villagers. This sub-project objective is therefore to increase the
literate population in each village group to an average of 20 people, by



- 19 -
providing functional literacy training to help them understand and carry out
primary marketing and simple accounting operations. The second POF project
anticipates that 5,000 villagers (20 per group for 250 village groups) would be
trained over a four-year period, with a special emphasis on numeracy.
3.36      Each functional literacy course would last 2 to 3 months with 30
sessions of 2 hours each, during dry seasons (6 to 8 months). Lectures
would be given in each village and in a building constructed by the
villagers themselves. Courses would be given by a volunteer trainer
("moniteur volontaire") with appropriate qualifications, selected by
villagers from their village or the same ethnic group, and speaking the
same language. He would be paid by the participants in the literacy
program. During the project period, 25 literacy agents would be recruited
and trained, and each equipped with a motorcycle. Each literacy agent
("encadreur") would initially train about 10 volunteer trainers and
supervise them regularly every 15 days. They would be supervised in turn
by four regional training officers already in place at SODECOTON. Finally,
a Cameroonian training specialist (program manager) would be responsible
for managing this sub-project, specifically for programming, coordination,
overall supervision and monitoring and evaluation; he would work in close
collaboration with an internationally recruited expert in adult literacy,
who would be financed by the sub-project for the first three years, and
with a short consultancy mission in PY4. At the initial stage of the
sub-project execution, the expert would develop teaching methods, texts and
programs, based on local conditions and needs.
3.37      The Cameroonian program manager would be trained by the expert by
closely working with him, as well as through project-financed visits of
on-going adult literacy programs in neighboring countries. Volunteer trainers
would attend 10-day training sessions (20 participants at each session) at the
SODECOTON training center. National and expatriate personnel, training,
vehicles and equipment necessary to carry out this component would be financed
under the project.
(f) Bottomlands development around Yaound6
3.38      Demand for fresh vegetables has increased along with the urban
population and incomes. While supply easily meets the demand during the
rainy season, a considerable shortage exists during the dry season
(December to April). A recent marketing study (SFDA, 1982) estimates the
total annual shortfall at about 10,000 tons; this deficit is expected to
increase further due to the population growth in Yaound6, estimated at
about 9% annually. Moreover, prices fluctuate as much as 100% depending on
the season. This sub-project would be the first pilot step toward closing that
gap, by adding one cropping during the dry season. The first impact on the
market would be modest, with only about 640 t of annual production, but the
demonstration effect of this type of activity should be substantial.
3.39      The bottomlands along the headwaters of small rivers around
Yaounde are well suited for gravity irrigation. Five sites of bottomlands



- 20 -
totalling some 20 ha have been identified by recent topographic surveys as
highly suitable; in the periphery of Yaounde, three suitable sites have
been identified at Olezoa, Anga's and Mimboman; and two more distant sites
have been identified at Minkama, 20 km from Yaounde and at Nto Center,
65 km from Yaounde. The Minkama site would be under sprinkler irrigation
from a pump station at a nearby stream while the others would be under
gravity irrigation. The main land improvements (particularly dykes,
diversions, and primary channels) would be constructed at each site with
capacity sufficient to permit the extension of irrigated perimeters. This
would increase the initial improvement cost (about US$3,600/ha) but would
provide greater flexibility for expansion in about three to five years, if
the pilot phase of 20 ha proves successful. It is estimated that the
cultivated area of the bottomlands could then gradually be increased about
three to four times, to some 60 to 80 ha.
3.40      After detailed topographic surveys, MIDEVIV would clear the land
with its own equipment and the help of prospective farmers where required.
Great care would be taken during clearing not to disturb the topsoil layer
(30-50 cm deep) covering the infertile subsoil. Bulldozers could be
carefully used for clearing, but selective manual clearing might become
necessary. About 30 ha have to be cleared for each 20 ha of cultivable
land. After completion of the civil works (including construction of
reservoirs), water distribution and drainage networks would be executed by
a local contractor, under the supervision of GR. Given the estimated net
returns to participating farmers (para 6.09), 50% of the development costs
of a typical 0.2 ha plot, about CFAF 175,000 (US$357), could be recovered
from PY3 (full development) onward. To ensure farmers' willingness to
participate in this innovative pilot scheme, a higher amount could not be
safely levied at that time. However, farmers would also provide labor
where required (mainly for construction of secondary canals and other works
directly related to individual plots) and would take full charge of
maintaining the network. If this pilot phase were successful, full cost
recovery would be considered in the context of the bottomlands expansion
which could be financed under the line of credit for unidentified
sub-projects (para 3.11).
3.41      Preliminary contact meetings called by MIDEVIV staff at the
identified sites were attended by many neighboring farmers, who showed a
strong interest in this sub-project. Because the bottomlands belong to
local authorities and occupancy is minimum, land tenure would not pose a
problem.  Each farmer would be given a plot of 0.2 ha and therefore about
100 farmers would participate in the pilot phase.  Farmers occupying the
sites would be given priority in land allocation.  Each site would be
equipped with a two-wheel manual tractor purchased by a group of farmers
under a medium- term credit provided by MIDEVIV to prepare their land.  A
volunteer would be designated by the participants, trained in tractor
operations, and remunerated by the beneficiary farmers on an hourly basis.
3.42      Two extension workers stationed in Yaounde and Obala would
provide extension services under the supervision of the Production Service
Section of MIDEVIV. They would receive special training in vegetable



- 21 -
production at one of the training centers in West Africa (e.g., Senegal),
prior to the start of production, and would be equipped with vehicles
financed by the sub-project. MIDEVIV would also be in charge of buying and
distributing the necessary inputs, such as improved seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides through its stores, and initially guide farmers in marketing.
In addition to receiving annual applications of appropriate pesticides
compatible with environmental considerations, the soil would be disinfected
once every three years to control nematodes. Bank supervision missions
would review programs for pesticide purchases, storage safety and chemicals
use. Improvement in packing should reduce losses from about 40% to 20%.
Because of the proximity to markets, transport does not pose a problem,
except for one relatively distant site which would require the purchase of
a vehicle by the farmers. The ultimate aim would be to form farmer groups
at each site, to gradually take over input supply, marketing and perimeter
maintenance works.
(g) Access roads
3.43        There is an acute need for rural roads in the Center and South
Provinces, where a large program has recently been launched by Government
to rehabilitate existing cocoa plantations and to establish new plantations
for the benefit of young cocoa settler farmers. The second RDF project is
the most suitable vehicle to satisfy the most urgent road needs, since the
Sixth Highway Project under preparation will concern main road trunks only.
The proposed Center-South Region Rural Development project, whose road
component is being closely coordinated with this project, is still at least
one year away. At present SODECAO is the sole well-managed operational
agency involved in cocoa feeder road construction and its road construction
unit operating on force account has given satisfactory results.
3.44      Under this sub-project, SODECAO would assume responsibility for
the development of about 350 km of access roads (para 5.27) which would be
connected spurs between the potentially rich cocoa and foodcrop areas and
the existing SODECAO feeder road network. Based on past experience in the
SODECAO area, it is estimated that the opening of these unexploited or
underdeveloped areas would benefit about 5,000 farmers by facilitating the
transport of agricultural produce, such as cocoa, maize, and plantain from
the area (para 6.02). Moreover, it is expected that about 1,000 more farm
families would find their way into the opened area and settle there. The
sub-project would also make agricultural inputs as well as pest control and
extension activities more accessible.
3.45      The sub-project would consist of (a) the creation of an
additional SODECAO access roads brigade; (b) a five-year program of
construction and maintenance; and (c) technical support to the brigade from
the SODECAO road construction division. Roads to be improved have already
been selected for the first year program (Project File No. 129859(8a,b)),
Most construction would be in SODECAO's six southern sections, where the
development needs are greatest. Detailed surveys for the selection of
priority roads would first be carried out by SODECAO's extension service in
consultation with interested farmers, to assess cocoa and foodcrop growing



- 22 -
potential. The SODECAO topographic team would undertake the layout. The
design criteria (Project File No.129.859 (8a,b)) are satisfactory to the
Bank. Average cost per kilometer is estimated at US$12,000 equivalent,
which is well in line with the cost of roads constructed under similar
conditions in West Africa.
3.46      SODECAO lacks adequate equipment to meet the sub-project needs.
The second RDF project would therefore finance the purchase of two
medium-sized bulldozers, three graders, and auxiliary vehicles and
equipment, as well as building materials such as cement, steel, and lumber,
and supplies such as fuel, lubricants and tires. SODECAO staff would (a)
define the annual construction program and detail implementation plans;
(b) lay out road alignments with its topographical brigade; (c) provide
back-up services for the preparation of bidding documents to purchase
equipment and vehicles; and (d) provide accounting and secretarial back-up
services. Short-term consultancies would be engaged to support the
monitoring of the economic and social aspects of the sub-project, as
required.
3.47      SODECAO would also assume responsibility for the subsequent
access road maintenance. This would, in view of the amount of traffic
expected, consist of re-shaping the running surface once a year after i:he
rains and resurfacing it once every 4-5 years, only to replace lost
laterite material.
B. Technical Assistance and Consultancies
3.48      The project would provide a total of 560 man-months of long-term
technical assistance (72 for the strengthening of agricultural planning
capacity, 252 for the strengthening of RDF management, 198 for rural water
supply, and 38 for functional literacy training) plus 41 man-months of
short-term consultancies. Consultancies would be used mainly for carrying
out studies and for short-term visits to obtain specialized expertise on
technical and management subjects.
C. Credit
3.49      Since three of the identified sub-projects would involve
agricultural credit, revolving funds would be opened for:
(a)  bottomlands development in the north (paras 3.14-3.18): CFAF
60 million for seasonal inputs;
(b)  bullock-fattening (paras 3.28-3.30): CFAF 30 million, for the
purchase of steers; and
(c)  bottomlands development around Yaounde (paras 3.38-3.42): CFAF
40 million for seasonal inputs and small equipment.



- 23 -
The project includes therefore CFAF 130 million (US$0.3 million) in
agricultural credit. The participating farmers would be charged an annual
interest rate of 10%, which is in line with the agricultural lending rates
applied by FONADER and other credit agencies in Cameroon. Since the
domestic inflation rate is estimated at 12% p.a., the 10% rate would
involve a small subsidy element, which is justified given the pilot nature
of these operations. Furthermore, since the credit amount is relatively
small and would be entirely financed by Government, the second RDF project
would not be the appropriate vehicle for the introduction of a new interest
rate policy; this issue is rather the subject of on-going sectoral
discussions between the Bank and Government.
IV. PROJECT COST AND JTNTANCT>70 ARRANGEMENTS
A.   Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the RDF program over the five year project
period, is estimated at CFAF 27.7 billion (US$56.6 million) with a foreign
exchange component of CFAF 15.6 billion (US$31.8 million) or 56%; this
includes CFAF 6.0 billion (TTS$12.2 million) representing the continued
operating costs associated with the first RDF Project during the project
period. The investment and incremental costs associated with the second
project are CFAF 21.7 billion (US$44.4 million), of which CFAF 12.5 billion
(US$25.5 million), or 57%, represent foreign exchange and CFAF 1.6 billion
(US$3.3 milion), or 7%, taxes and duties. These taxes and duties concern
mainly local salaries and construction materials. Government intends to
continue to allow tax exemption on directly imported vehicles, equipment
and materials.
4.02      The baseline costs (CFAF 20.8 billion/US$42.5 million) were
updated and arc expressed in end-1984 prices; they are derived from samples
of recent costs incurred by the four major agencies that would be involved
in the execution of the second RDF project. Total contingencies on
baseline costs, net of the line of credit of CFAF 2.9 billion (US$6.0
million), on which no contingencies are calculated, amount to CFAF 6.9
billion (IIS$14.1 million) or 25% of total costs. Physical contingencies of
10% have been applied to capital and operating costs, except wages,
salaries and technical assistance. Price contingencies over the five-year
implementation period have been calculated on the basis of an annual rate
of inflation of 8% in FY86 and 9% thereafter. The detailed cost estimates
are in Annex 4-1 and summarized on the following page.



PROJECT COST SUMMARY
---------- CFAF million      ---                             US$'OOO ------------       Base Costs
Local       Foreign       Total               Local        Foreign      Total              %
I. Institutional Develop mnt
A.  Strengthening of Agric. Planning    186.6           373.2        559.8               380.7        761.8       1,142.5            3
B. Strengthening of RDF Management
- Headquarters                       320.1         474.1         794.2              653.3         967.5       1,620.8            4
- SOFSAR                           1,867.8       2,683.4       4,551.2            3,803.6       5,484.6       9,288.2           22
C.  Priority Studies                       50.2         181.6         231.8              367.8        105.2         473.0            1
D.  Line of Credit                      1,600.0       1,340.0      2,940.0             3,000.0      3,000.0       6,000.0           14
II. Identified Sub-Projects
A.  Bottomlands - North                   202.2         201.7        421.9              449.4         411.6         861.0            2
B.  Rural Water Supply                  2,984.9      5,493.8       8,478.7            6,091.6      11,211.8      17,303.4           41
C.  Bullock-Fattening                      29.7           5.3         35.0               68.9            2.6         71.5            -
D.  Groundnut Marketing/Schelling         138.3         158.3        296.6               282.3        323.0         605.3            2
E. Functional Literacy Training            98.9         185.2        284.1              201.8         377.9         579.7            1
F.  Bottomlands around Yaoundd            151.5          93.1        244.6              309.2         189.9         499.1            1
C.  Access Roads in the SODECAO area    970.9           998.5      1,969.4            1,981.4       2,037.8       4,019.2            9
Total Base Costs                        8,619.1     12,188.2      20,807.3           17,590.0      24,873.7      42,463.7          100
Contingencies:  - Physical                525.2         878.4      1,403.6            1,071.7       1,792.6       2,864.3            6
Price                 3,030.1      2,495.8       5,525.9            6,184.0       5,093.4      11,277.4           27
Total Costs                            12,174.4     15,562.4      27,736.8           24,845.7      31,759.7      56,605.4           33
Less:  Operating Costs for first
RDF Project during Project      2,924.4       3,073.3       5,997.7            5,968.2       6,271.7      12,239.9            -
execution                      -u 
Total Project Costs                     9,250.0     12,489.1      21,739.1           18,877.5      25,488.0      44,365.5            -



- 25 -
B.    Proposed Financing
4.03        Bank financing would cover the estimated foreign exchange costs
of the project, i.e., US$25.5 million, or 57% of total costs, while the
domestic contribution (US$18.1 million from Government and US$0.8 million
from beneficiaries) would cover all local costs. The financing plan be
category of expenditures is given below and the detailed financing by
sub-project is in Annex 4-2.
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN a/
(USS'OOO)
Category of Expenditures                         Total          IBRD         Government   Beneficiaries
1. Civil Works
- Buildings and other                              1,720          1,380           340             -
- Boreholes                                       14,950         12,635         2,315             -
2. Vehicles and Road
Making Equipment                               2,770          2,200           570             -
3. Equipment
-Pumps                                           1,200          1,000           200             -
- Other                                            390            335            55
4. Technical Assistance, Consultancy
Services and Fellowships                      6,080          4,950         1,130             -
5.  Local Personnel                                  3,540              -         2,750           790
6.  Operating Costs                                  7,650              -         7,650             -
7.  Bullock-Fattening                                   70              -            55            15
8. Line of Credit for Unidentified
Projects                                       6,000          3,000         3,000             -
Total Second RDF Project                        44,370          25,500       18,065  b/       805
9.  Plus:  Operating Costs for first
RDF Project during Project
execution                                12,230              -        12,030           200
Total Financing Required                        56,600         25,500        30,095  c/    1,005
Percentage Financing
- Second Project                                                   57            41             2
- Net of taxes                                                     62            36             2
- Total financing Required                                         45            53             2
- Net of taxes                                                     48            50             2
a/ Based on exchange rate of US$1.00 = CFAF 490
F/ Includes taxes of US$3.3 million
c/ Includes taxes of US$3.9 million



- 26 -
4.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$25.5 million would be made to
Government for a 20-year period, including a 5-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate. Together with Government's contribution
to the project, funds would be passed on to FONADER's RDF account as
grants. Over the five-year project period, funds would be used for (a)
appraised sub-projects, US$37.8 million; (b) future sub-projects to be
financed under the line of credit of US$6.0 million; and (c) studies,
US$0.6 million. These funds would be allocated by agency as follows:
ALLOCATION OF IBRD LOAN AND GOVERNMENT FUNDS
Executing                                                             Amoutnt
Agency                          Purpose                          (US$ million)
MINAGRI      Strengthening of its project planning capacity              1.5
RDF         Project management (i.e. financial monitoring
and accounting supervision - 2nd project (1.8)
Studies to be undertaken by DEP, SEMRY
and CENEEMA                                 (0.6)
Line of credit for as yet unidentified
sub-projects                                (6.0)           8.4
SOFSAR      Turnkey contracts for construction of 1,000
boreholes and funds for the elaboration of
a beneficiaries participation scheme    (24.0)
Operating costs and bullock-fattening    (1.5)             25.5
SEMRY       Development of bottomlands for rice and sorghum
cultivation                                                 1.2
SODECOTON   Groundnut marketing/shelling and functional
literacy training                                           1.5
MIDEVIV     Development of bottomlands around Yaounde for
vegetable production                                        0.7
SODECAO     Construction of access roads in the SODECAO area            5.6
Total                                                  44.4



- 27 -
4.05      To ensure the smooth start-up of the second RDF project,
Government would deposit an advance of CFAF 400 million (US$0.8 million)
into the RDF account. This amount corresponds to about four months of
expenditures for all identified sub-projects, and would be in addition to
the standard three months advance in budgeted expenditures. Thereafter,
the RDF account would be replenished by Government quarterly, and by
reimbursements from the Bank for eligible expenditures; this arrangement
has worked well in the first RDF Project. The initial deposit by
Government would be a condition of effectiveness (para 8.02(b)).
4.06     UTpon presentation of approved annual implementation programs and
budgets, RDF would release the first quarterly tranche to the respective
agencies in charge of executing the sub-projects. (Each executing service
or agency would be required to maintain separate accounts for each
sub-project.) To ensure Government's proper annual investment budgeting,
the respective sub-project executing services or agencies would make
certain that the approved sub-projects are clearly identified as
RDF-financed and included in their respective ministerial budgets.
Thereafter, to avoid that FONADER/RDF overextend its cash resources, funds
would be released quarterly, upon presentation of the documentation
justifying the preceding three months of expenditures.
4.07      The financial departments of the sub-project executing agencies
have been reviewed and found sufficiently staffed with qualified personnel
to confidently handle the additional resources. Furthermore, RDF's
financial controller would visit the agencies about twice a year to control
the proper use of funds disbursed by RDF and, where necessary, advise them
on the preparation of documents to be submitted to RDF for the next
quarter's release.
C.   Procurement
4.08      All goods, works and services would be procured according to Bank
guidelines. Except for MIDEVIV, which has been briefed only at appraisal,
all sub-project executing entities know the Bank's procurement procedures
because of their involvement in on-going and previous Bank-financed
projects. Contracts for US$150,000 or more would be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for goods below US$150,000 would be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below, with amounts
financed by the IBRD loan shown in parentheses.



- 28 -
AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ Million)
Total
Project
Terms to be Procured            ICB         LCB        Others    N.A.      costs
Civil Works
-  Buildings                         -          0.9        -          -          0.9
-         (0.7)      -          -         (0.7)
-  Boreholes                         15.0       -          -          -         15.0
(12.6)      -          -          -        (12.6)
-  Bottomlands                        -         -          0.8 a/    -           0.8
-         -         (0.7)       -         (0.7)
Vehicles and Heavy Equipment             2.0        0.8       -          -          2.8
(1.6)     (0.6)       -          -         (2.2)
Other Equipment
-- Pumps                              1.2 b/    -          -          -          1.2
(1.0)      -          _          _         (1.0)
-- Office Machines
and Furniture                     -          0.4        -          _          0.4
-         (0.3)      -          -         (0.3)
Technical Assistance and
Consultancy Services                     -         -          6.1 c/    -           6.1
-         -         (5.0)       -         (5.0)
Bullock-Fattening Credit                 -          -         0.1 d/    -           0.1
Line of Credit                           -          -         -          6.0 e/    6.0
_         _          -         (3.0)      (3.0)
Local Personnel!
Operating Cost                           -          -         17.5       5.8 f/   23.3
Total                   18.2       2.1       24.5       11.8       56.6
(15.2)     (1.6)      (5.7)      (3.0)    (25.5)
a/ Executed by SEMRY and MIDEVIV
bI Limited ICB
c/ To be procured individually or through firms, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines
d/ Bulls to be purchased from local farmers
e/ Procurement under the line of credit will follow the same procedures
as for all other components, with the respective amounts depending on
the nature of the sub-projects
f/ Local personnel



- 29 -
D.   Disbursement
4.09      The estimated disbursement schedule for the IBRD loan is in
Annex 4-3 and covers a 6-year disbursement period. It is slightly faster
than the past disbursement profiles for rural development projects in
Cameroon (7 years), because the experience gained under the first RDF
Project should enable RDF to start the second RDF project faster, and
because the major turnkey contracts for well drilling are expected to
include a significant mobilization charge. The IBRD loan would be
allocated as follows:
DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES FOR IBRD LOAN
% of Total
Expenditures
Category                       Amount          Financed
(US$ '000)
Civil Works:
-  Buildings/Bottomlands            1,250             80
-  Boreholes                       11,400             80
Vehicles, Heavy Equipment and
Office Equipment                    2,300             80
Equipment:
-  Pumps                              900             80
Technical Assistance and
Consultancy Services                4,500             80
Line of Credit (Sub-loans)             3,000             50         (of amounts
disbursed)
Unallocated                            2,150
Total                           25,500
Disbursements for civil works, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance
and consultancy services would be fully documented. Part of the
disbursements against sub-loans under the line of credit would be against
statements of expenditures. RDF has gained experience in the preparation
of such statements under the first Project and therefore these activities
should not be a problem.
E.   Financial Control, Audit and Reporting
4.10      RDF financial control system would be two-pronged, i.e., at the
central level and by the executing agencies. The central accounting
department would keep the accounts of the sub-projects being carried out



- 30 -
under the supervision of the RDF itself, i.e., the drilling of 1,000
boreholes (through PMCU), the bullock-fattening credit scheme, the overall
project administration, and the studies. Except for the acquisition of a
micro-data processor to mechanize the accounts, the second RDF project does
not provide for the strengthening of this service, since its capability has
been proven under the first Project. One of the weakest aspects of this
first Project was the inability of sub-project executing agencies to carry
out the proper accounting of the activities entrusted to them. To overcome
this obstacle, the second RDF project would be executed by established
agencies with a proven record. Furthermore, RDF's capacity for financial
control and auditing of sub-project accounts would be strengthened by the
recruitment of an experienced financial controller for RDF's headquarters
in Yaounde and a senior accountant for SOFSAR in Maroua (para 5.04). Aside
from the consolidation of all sub-project accounts, one of their principal
tasks would be to assist the executing agencies, prepare the annual budgets
and periodic interim audits of sub-project accounts, and advise on the
required documentation to support their quarterly claims.
4.11      As under the first RDF Project, consolidated accounts will be
maintained and audited separately from FONADER's accounts, in order to
avoid the delays experienced under the first Project. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the audit will be prepared and submitted
to Government and the Bank as a separate document and that such a report,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, will be submitted
within six months of the close of each financial year of the second project
(para 8.01(a)).
4.12      Quarterly progress reports, with summary statements on the
progress of each sub-project, would be prepared by FONADER on the basis of
more detailed reporting contained in the executing agencies' regular
quarterly reports to RDF. The completion report for the second RDF project
would be carried out by RDF staff with the help of consultants (para 3.10).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   General
5.01            The RDF directorate set up in FONADER has demonstrated its
capability to provide financing and accounting services for the
sub-projects executed under the first RDF Project. This success is largely
attributable to the fact that FONADER enjoyed relatively strong support
from its parent, MINAGRI, and funds to carry out its activities were always
promptly provided. Because of RDF's competent core of key staff, the
day-to-day operations of the first Project were left to the RDF director
and his staff. Although discussions concerning an eventual reorganization
of FONADER into a national agricultural development bank have been underway
since the late seventies, nothing concrete has emerged yet; however, the
transformation is likely to happen during the second RDF project. Since
such transformation may affect the status of RDF as an autonomous



- 31 -
directorate within FONADER, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that RDF's present administrative and financial autonomy would be preserved
under any reorganization (para 8.01(b)). Its staff would be utilized
solely for the purpose of carrying out the second RDF project. An
organigram illustrating the relation of FONADER and RDF to the ministries
and executing agencies is in Annex 5-1.
B.   Rural Development Fund
5.02      RDF's principal responsibilities under the second RDF project
would be (a) overall monitoring, supervision of on-going, and evaluation of new,
sub-projects; (b) administration, channeling and accounting of the funds to
finance the sub-projects; and (c) advice to the sub-project executing
agencies on how to prepare their annual programs, budgets, and progress
reports. During the first RDF Project, RDF recruited competent staff, some
seconded from the civil service and the rest hired on a permanent basis
from the private sector. Presently, RDF employs 28 staff, divided equally
between its Yaounde headquarters (including management and administration)
and SOFSAR, Maroua. Due to the weak administration within the executing
agencies, RDF staff's original responsibilities often included direct
interventions in sub-project execution (para 1.15). The careful selection
of experienced executing agencies under the second RDF Project, would allow
RDF staff to give sufficient attention to improve their sub-project
financial management procedures.
5.03      The internationally recruited financial controller (para 3.05)
for RDF's headquarters in Yaounde would assist the second RDF project
executing agencies to prepare their annual budgets, supervise and monitor
proper procurement procedures, refine project cost accounting, and
consolidate RDF's annual accounts. He would also advise the sub-project
executing agencies in the Center and South Provinces on the documentation
required to support their requests for quarterly replenishment of funds
(para 4.10). The agriculturist/rural engineer, based at RDF headquarters,
would be responsible for assisting executing agencies prepare their annual
programs and for continued technical supervision of all sub-projects.
5.04      The senior accountant in SOFSAR, Maroua would be principally
responsible for the proper accounting of funds to finance the rural water
supply sub-project. He would also supervise the preparation of quarterly
claims for the replenishment of sub-project accounts for the executing
agencies of the other sub-projects in the northern region. Assurances were
obtained from Government at negotiations that the RDF director, financial
controller, and agricultural/rural engineer, and the senior accountant of
SOFSAR, would have at all times qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank (para 8.01(c)). SOFSAR would also be responsible for executing
the bullock-fattening scheme (paras 3.28-3.30). For purposes of extension
advice, it would sub-contract the services of five livestock extension
agents from the Mokolo livestock extension station and maintain, as under
the first RDF Project, close liaison with experts of the veterinary school



- 32 -
in Maroua so that possible physiological or disease problems can be solved
through specific diagnostic work.
5.05      RDF would also be responsible for launching and coordinating all
studies (paras 3.07-3.10), whose preparation would be part of the annual
work program. It would prepare, in close liaison with the executing
agencies, an annual work program and budget, and submit them to the Bank by
October 31, of each year, for review and comments. RDF would also prepare
annual reports and submit them to the Bank by May I, of each year (paraL
8.01(d)). As under the first RDF Project, succint but comprehensive
quarterly reports would be submitted to Government and the Bank on a
regular basis. No attempts have been made to enlarge the evaluation and
monitoring capacity of RDF, since a central agricultural Project Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) exists in DEP at MINAGRI, and the project
executing agencies already have PMEUs. RDF's technical staff would liaise
with these units to obtain information on specific subjects as required and
to ask for selected items to be included in the PMEU's work program, based
on RDF management's needs for information.
5.06      An outline of the responsibilities of FONADER/RDF and each
project executing agency, based on existing models, was agreed upon during
negotiations. Not later than December 31, 1985, FONADER, on behalf of RDF,
would enter into operational agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
each executing agency concerned, to define in detail their respective role
in the execution of sub-projects and the channelling of funds. Specific
conditionalities, deemed necessary for correct execution of the
sub-projects, would be covered in these operational agreements, and
assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 8.01(e)). A
draft operational agreement is in the Project File (No. 129859(14)). The
implementation schedule of the various sub-projects is in Annex 5-2.
C.   Rural Water Supply Agencies
5.07      The past institutional arrangements of the Rural Water Supply
sub-sector in Cameroon have been unsatisfactory, largely because of the
involvement of three organizations under the responsibility of two
ministries: GR (Rural Works Department) and DDC (Department of Community
Development) under MINAGRI, and PES (Groundwater Project) under MINMEN.
Both MINAGRI and MINMEN have their own RWS project under implementation in
the northern region: MINAGRI has signed a turnkey contract with a local
contractor to execute 250 boreholes annually; MINMEN executes about
50-100 boreholes annually through PES, with the Japanese Government's gift
of equipment. These two operations overlap geographically but are not
coordinated.



- 33 -
5.08      The need for better planning and coordination has been
generally recognized in Cameroon, and through continuous dialogue in the
course of the second RDF project's preparation, considerable progress has
been made toward developing a satisfactory permanent solution to the RWS
instiutional problems. As a result, the following course of action was
adopted during the appraisal of the second RDF project. First, Government
has created a National Water Committee, an interministerial body with
strategic and policy setting objectives (para 1.11). Second, funds would
be provided under the second RDF project to finance a medium-term
consultancy of 18 months, specialized in organization and management of
national RWS organizations. These consultants, whose terms of reference
were agreed upon during negotiations, would be appointed by December 31,
1985, at the latest (para 8.01(f)) and would help the Committee develop a
national policy embodying the principle of beneficiaries participation in
RWS and oversee the implementation of arrangements for maintenance. The
adoption of measures to implement such a policy, to be reviewed regularly
by Government and the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement against
the turnkey contracts for the 1,000 boreholes and the supply of 1,000
hand pumps (para 8.03).
5.09      The overall supervision of the RSW sub-project's administrative
and financial management would be entrusted to the National Water
Committee, while day-to-day management and supervision would be entrusted
to a Planning Management and Control Unit, to be set up in SOFSAR. The
creation of the PMCU would be a condition of effectiveness (para 8.02(c)).
5.10      The PMCU would have full responsibility for the execution of the
technical aspects of the RWS sub-project. It would be staffed with
qualified personnel, experienced in RWS planning, groundwater development
and large-scale drilling operations. This staff would consist of senior
Cameroonian specialists and a team of internationally recruited engineering
consultants, comprising three hydrogeological specialists, one geophysicist
and four drilling inspectors (draft terms of reference in Project File No.
129859(11)). Employment of the engineering consultants would be a
condition of effectiveness (para 8.02(d)). To ensure health benefits, PMCU
would sub-contract with provincial and departmental health authorities for
periodic water quality surveillance, health education and sanitation.
Emphasis would be placed on the integration of all staff in one fully
operational unit with administrative and financial autonomy.
5.11      The PMCU well-sitting unit would liaise with the other units
involved in RWS programs, village authorities, PES and GR, to locate water
supply points and to program implementation. This would allow PMCU to
organize the RWS promotion and extension activities of the sub-project
staff seconded from DDC. Communities would be selected for borehole
drilling on the basis of priority needs.
5.12      PMCU's main responsibility would be the administrative, technical
and financial supervision of the drilling and pump supply contractors,
including technical specifications and tender preparation, bid evaluation,



- 34 -
and contract negotiations. On such financial matters as withdrawal
application for drilling operations, it would closely liaise with SOFSAR's
senior accountant.
5.13      The PMCU's Pump Maintenance and Repair Service (PMRS) would
consist of seven units, each based at a departmental workshop and headed by
a trained pump mechanic delegated from GR, equipped with a 4-wheel-drive
vehicle, a light derrick, a compressor, a full set of pump repair tools and
spares, as well as a stock of spare pumps. Each departmental unit would
undertake periodic pump maintenance and supervise village repairmen and
caretakers. For works beyond its technical competence, PMRS would liaise
with PES and the provincial service of GR. It would also, in close
collaboration with the pump supplier, arrange for pump agents and spare
part distributors to operate in the project area. The well-managed main GR
workshop at Maroua, established under the first RDF Project, would be
equipped to serve as central unit for other regional workshops.
5.14      Pump maintenance would be organized at the village, sub-district,
departmental and provincial levels. At the village level, Village Water
Committees would be formed with the help of PMCU's community development
agents, who would nominate a village caretaker in charge of the day-to-day
pump maintenance and the supervision of proper use. At the sub-district
level, village repairmen would be trained during courses organized by PMCU,
in cooperation with CENEEMA and GR. They would be equipped with a
motorcycle, a set of specialized pump repair tools and a stock of most
needed spare parts. At the departmental level, mobile repair teams would
be formed in each of the seven departments covered by the second RDF
project and headed by trained mechanics from GR provincial service. At the
provincial level, borehole repair and pump rehabilitation services would be
made available by PES and GR, respectively.
5.15      Details of the above arrangements may require to be modified in
the light of the overall policy framework which would be proposed by the
National Water Committee and implemented by Government. Whatever these
details may be, the Bank has been assured by Government (a) that these
details will include a provision for operating agencies, such as RDF, to
enter into contractual agreements with the villages committees engaging the
latter to take responsibility for overseeing the operation and routine
preventive maintenance of the pump and its surroundings; and (b)
formulation of these contractual arrangements will follow a program
designed to ensure that villagers are fully aware of their future
responsibilities in this regard, and will precede any drilling operations
in the village.   Furthermore, an understanding was reached that, as a
means of assessing the effectiveness of these committees, SOFSAR would
maintain a separate water supply account for each village to cover
expenditure on repairs.



- 35 -
5.16      The RWS sub-project has been prepared, appraised and costed to
support the implementation of an innovative system of village participation
in the second RDP project area. Therefore, this approach would be adopted
at the very beginning of sub-project implementation and adjusted to reflect
the national policy to be elaborated by the National Water Committee. As
this beneficiaries' participation scheme is the only large-scale approach
in Cameroon, it could serve as a model around which the National Water
Committee could frame its national policy.
5.17      Training, whether in-service or through outside courses, would be
organized by PMCU for counterpart staff at all levels and in such diverse
fields as RWS planning and management, drilling supervision, pump
maintenance and repair, and RWS extension. The regional officer of CENEEMA
at Garoua would be contracted by RDF to train pump mechanics and fitters as
required. Furthermore, PMCU would prepare terms of reference and arrange
for a long-term RWS monitoring and evaluation system to determine the
viability and cost effectiveness of the operation.
5.18      FONADER would prepare detailed annual work programs and budgets
and submit them to MINAGRI and the National Water Committee for final
review and approval. RDF would subsequently submit them, together with its
overall annual implementation program and budget, to the Bank not later
than May 1, of each year. A four-year overall work program would be
prepared during PYI, when drilling and pump supply contracts would also be
concluded, and the procurement of vehicles and equipment would take place.
The sub-project would operate at full capacity as of PY2. The
implementation schedule is in Annex 5-2.
D.   Other Implementation Agencies
5.19      The other executing agencies would be SEMRY for rural water
supply; SODECOTON for groundnut marketing/shelling and functional literacy
training; MIDEVIV for bottomlands development around Yaounde; and SODECAO
for access roads.
5.20      SEMRY.  In 1971 the former Experimental Sector for Modernization
in the North ("Secteur Experimental de Modernisation du Nord" - SEMNORD)
was decreed to become the Agency for the Promotion and Modernization of
Rice Cultivation at Yagoua (SEMRY).  Since then, the water supply for
controlled irrigation increased to an area of about 10,000 ha on the flat
plain sloping slightly from South to North along the Logone River on the
Cameroonian side of the border with Chad. In 1981/82, over 20,000
participating rice farmers produced some 37,000 tons of rice, equivalent to
about 40% of the annual rice consumed in Cameroon. SEMRY has been assisted
by grants, credits, and a loan, respectively from CCCE, FED, FAC and
IDA/IBRD (two IDA credits, one IBRD loan, all fully disbursed). SEMRY is a
well managed organization, with extensive experience in bottomlands
development and extension advice to small farmers. Therefore, the
execution of the bottomlands development sub-project of 1,000 ha in the



- 36 -
north for rice and sorghum cultivation (paras 3.14-3.18) can be confidently
entrusted to this agency.
5.21      The sub-project would be implemented on a design-and-construct
basis by the well-staffed and well-equipped Bottomland Unit of SEMRY
(organigram in Project File No. 129589(17)), under a signed operational
agreement (para 5.06) with FONADER/RDF. Operations would be provided
initially for two years, with the option to extend the agreement six months
before its expiration. After completion of the improvement works and
acceptance by RDF, SEMRY would be responsible for works maintenance arid
annual land preparation. The farmers would maintain bunds and ditches with
their own labor.
5.22      SODECOTON.  The Cotton Development Company was created in 1958.
Its capital is held by the Cameroonian Government and the French Textile
Fiber Development Corporation ("Compagnie Frangaise pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles" - CFDT) at the ratio of 79:21. SODECOTON is a
vertically integrated development organization involved in the following
main operations: production development by an extension force of about
650, organized in 4 regions and 31 sectors and reaching about 140,000
farmers; input supplies (about 15,000 tons of fertilizers and 1.2 million
liters of cotton insecticides are ordered annually); credit operations
(seed, fertilizers, chemicals and farm equipment are distributed to farmers
and part of the cost involved, calculated on a per hectare basis, is
recovered when farmers sell their seed cotton); and cotton marketing
(ginning and seed processing take place at eight ginneries, two oil mills
and a refinery). Exports of lint and seed cake are handled by the selling
unit in CFDT. All vegetable oil produced is sold on the local market,
where the unsatisfied demand is high. SODECOTON is well managed and is
carrying out satisfactorily three major regional development projects: the
North-East Benoug Rural Development Project, financed by the European
Development Fund ("Fond Europeen de Developpement" - FED); the South-East
Benou6 RDP, financed by CCCE; and the Northern Province RDP, financed by
the Bank.
5.23       The two sub-projects of the second RDF project, groundnut
marketing and shelling (para 3.31-3.33) and functional literacy training
(paras 3.34-3.37) were prepared by competent SODECOTON staff, and their
execution can be entrusted to them. Both sub-projects would be managed by
SODECOTON's well-staffed and equipped Development Directorate, which is
responsible for both training and production operations. SODECOTON
organigram is in the Project File (No. 129859(17)).
5.24      MIDEVIV.  This Food Crop DevelopmerLt Agency was created in 1973.
Its objective was to promote nationwide foodcrop cultivation and
commercialization as an autonomous agency under MINAGRI. In recent years,
MIDEVIV's marketing activities have been substantially de-emphasized, and
it is now mainly responsible for national foodcrop seed multiplication and
vegetable production. MIDEVIV presently employs about 340 staff: 80 are
in Yaounde headquarters for management, administration, technical service



- 37 -
and finance, 60 work throughout the country to promote the commercial-
ization of foodcrops, and the remaining 200 are equally divided between
technicians and extension agents working principally in the major vegetable
cultivation areas (South, Center, West and North) and laborers maintaining
six major foodcrop plantations/seed multiplication centers strategically
located throughout Cameroon. Although MIDEVIV suffered from start-up
difficulties, it is now well-managed, partially because of the technical
assistance provided by the French Aid and Cooperation Fund ("Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation" - FAC), the American Agency for International
Development (USAID), and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
5.25        MIDEVIV's experience, gained over years of farm management and
vegetable production, and of dealing with small producers, should enable it
to successfully implement the sub-project for developing 20 ha of
bottomlands for vegetable production around Yaounde (paras 3.38-3.42). The
sub-project would be supervised by MIDEVIV's Studies Division at the
planning and bottomland development stages, and by its Production Division
at the production stage. These two divisions have competent personnel and
all the equipment necessary to execute this sub-project. MIDEVIV's
organigram is in Project File No. 129859(17).
5.26      SODECAO.  As an autonomous regional development company under the
Ministry of Agriculture, SODECAO is responsible for the development of
cocoa in the Center and South Provinces. It provides extension services to
some 120,000 cocoa farmers and assists them in establishing new cocoa
plantations; it also provides inputs and advice for capside (insect)
control treatment on some 26,000 ha. Although the agency was fraught with
many administrative and technical problems at the outset, a new management
team has succeeded during the past three years to reorganize and strengthen
SODECAO staff and to consolidate its activities into a smoothly running
operation. Government's confidence in SODECAO is illustrated by its
approval of the 1983/84 budget at CFAF 10.0 billion (US$20.4 million),
almost twice as high as the 1982/83 budget. To execute its budgeted
operations, SODECAO has about 900 staff members, 70 of whom are in the
Roads Division. In 1983/84, this Division opened about 315 km of new
access roads and maintained them on a total of 300 km. SODECAO has already
benefited from a Bank loan (1039-CM of September 5, 1974, fully disbursed),
FED grants, and CCCE loans. The latter served largely to finance heavy
equipment and technical assistance for road rehabilitation programs.
SODECAO's Roads Division, one of its four major structural units, is headed
by a qualified and experienced roads engineer supported by the staff of a
specialized bureau for technical planning and design and by four field
services: technical supervision, roads maintenance, supplies and workshop,
and new roads construction.
5.27       The access roads sub-project would be executed by the new roads
construction service through a newly created access roads brigade, suitably
equipped with personnel and equipment. An important logistical back-up
unit for the sub-project execution would be the supply service and
workshop, which has shown good performance. Therefore, the execution of



- 38 -
the sub-project, i.e., the opening of about 350 km of priority access roads
in the cocoa-foodcrops area (paras 3.43-3.47) can be safely entrusted to
SODECAO. (Organigram in Project File, No. 129859(17)).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.   Production
6.01      For the directly productive sub-projects, yield assumptions and
incremental production at full development are summarized in Annex 6-1.
For the bottomlands development sub-project in the north, yield assumptions
for paddy are prudent when compared with actual yields achieved by SEMRY
farmers under full water control (5,000 kg/ha). Under partial water
control only, yields of 2,000 kg/ha at full development (PY6) are
considered realistic, bringing the total incremental paddy production to
2,000 tons for 1,000 ha of bottomlands. The production of dry season
sorghum ("mouskouari") would also increase with the use of fertilizers
(from 800 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha in PYII) and with the expansion of the area
under cultivation for a second crop at the beginning of the dry season.
The bullock-fattening sub-project would produce about 68 tons of additional
beef per year, based on 400 participants a year and an average animal
weight increase of 170 kg over one-and-a-half to two years. The
bottomlands development sub-project for market gardening would increase
marketable vegetable production for Yaounde by 640 tons a year.
6.02      The construction of 350 km access roads in the SODECAO area would
increase the marketable volume of cocoa by about 1,300 tons from the
existing plantations as a result of yield increase (from 120 kg/ha to
220 kg/ha) due to easier access to plantations, pesticide application and
overall better maintenance. Based on the recorded experience of SODECAO's
PMEU, the new access roads would also induce the development of some 500 ha
of new cocoa plantations and 2,000 ha of foodcrops by settlers. The
respective incremental production is estimated at 240 tons of cocoa from
PY14 and at 1,600 tons of maize equivalent from PY6 onwards. The groundnut
marketing sub-project involves mainly transportation, storing and shelling;
the volume of shelled nuts at full development is estimated at 3,300 tons
annually.
B.   Markets
6.03      Outputs of productive sub-projects would be either import
substitutes (paddy, maize, and groundnuts), or additional supplies to the
domestic market (vegetables, beef, sorghum, and plantain), with the only
exception of cocoa which is an export crop; in all cases, the output would
be small in relation to the current supply. The foodcrop output is likely
to be consumed in part by the producers and in part by local towns close to
the production sites. Apart from this local demand, the national urban
demand is strong, particularly for vegetables, maize, beef and groundnuts,



- 39 -
as consumption patterns shift from traditional starchy foods, such as
tubers, toward these more expensive foods as a result of higher average
income.
6.04      The demand for paddy in the north depends on the rice import
demand in Northern Nigeria, on the relative prices of the Cameroonian rice,
and on the imported rice transported within Nigeria to the northern region.
Under the second RDF project;, farmers would be free to sell paddy to
private buyers at free market prices or to SEMRY at official prices. Given
the relatively small volume expected from this sub-project (2,000 t of
paddy at full development equivalent to 1,240 t of rice) in relation to the
total SEMRY production (37,000 t of rice in 1982/83), marketing is not
expected to pose any major problems.
6.05      Vegetables produced in the bottomlands around Yaounde would help
meet a growing demand for fresh vegetables (tomatoes, onions, cabbages,
okras, and other African vegetables) in the capital. The combinations
produced would vary according to market conditions. The expected vegetable
production would be equivalent to about 3% of the estimated demand for
vegetables in Yaounde in 1982, and therefore there is little, if any, risk
of oversupply, provided that choices of vegetables to be produced are well
adjusted. Farmers are expected to market their own vegetables.
6.06      After primary processing at the farm level, cocoa is sold either
to cooperatives or private traders, who, in turn, sell to exporters. Due
to fixed producer prices, private traders are not eager to market cocoa
from areas not easily accessible. The construction of access roads would
facilitate marketing by traders and the cooperatives, and thus increase the
marketable volume of cocoa.
6.07      While implementing intensified groundnut production in the
SODECOTON area in the northern region, the marketing of groundnuts was
identified as a serious bottleneck, while the demand for groundnuts in the
northern region and elsewhere in Cameroon--as well as exports to Nigeria
and Chad--continues to be firm. Because of the increased production,
farmers are unable to shell groundnuts in a traditional manner when labor
is required for cotton picking. Since there are difficulties in selling
unshelled groundnuts since private traders buy only shelled nuts, the
groundnut sub-project aims at filling the gaps by evacuating unshelled
nuts, shelling them, and marketing the shelled nuts.
C.   Prices
6.08      Financial prices used for the farm budgets are based on observed
prices in regional markets (sorghum, maize, groundnuts, plantain, beef, and
vegetables) and on official producer prices for cocoa in mid-1983. The
paddy price is an average of SEMRY producer price and free local market
price, based on likely shares of sale to SEMRY (50%) and to private traders
(50%). Vegetable prices have been estimated with allowances made for
intra-seasonal fluctuations and the kinds of vegetables likely to be



- 40 -
produced. The economic values are calculated for tradeable outputs, based
on commodity price projections made by the Bank. These prices are
summarized below.
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICES IN MID-1983
Financial   Economic
Paddy                                68   a/     66    (import parity Garoua)
Sorghum                             100   b/     94    (import parity Garoua)
Groundnuts (shelled)                180          180
Groundnuts (unshelled)             N.A.          80
Cocoa                               296   c/    666    (export parity Yaounde)
Vegetable (tomatoes equiv.)         150          150
Beef                                330         330
Maize                               N.A.          89    (import parity Yaound6)
Plantain                             22           22
a/   Weighted average of SEMRY purchase price of 62 CFAF/kg and average
market price of 75 CFAF/kg.
bi  Average of highest (125 CFAF/kg) and lowest (75 CFAF/kg) market
prices.
c/   Weighted average of official prices at 330 CFAF/kg for Grade I (85%)
and 100 CFAF/kg for "hors standard" (15%) for 1982/83.
D.   Financial Results
6.09      On the basis of financial prices quoted above and of the yield
and output projections in Annex 6-1, farm budgets have been established for
the productive sub-projects. Costs of fertilizers are based on current
market prices, not on subsidized prices. The results of the detailed farm
budgets are in Project File No. 129859(15) and summarized in Annex 6-2.
6.10      These results indicate that annual net financial returns per
family from project activities (i.e., gross value of production minus costs
of produiction, debt service and losses) increase, ranging from 12%
(bullock-fattening credit) to more than 90% (bottomlands in the north). For
SODECAO's improved cocoa plantations, the net increase in family incomes
improves considerably, even when assuming that pesticides are no longer
subsidized by Government. Despite the new absolute increase in family
incomes, net returns per man-day do not increase as a result of the
additional labor required. It is, however, beneficial for farmers since
the off-peak slack labor is better utilized and the food available for
family consumption and market increases. Labor availability and



- 41 -
requirement analyses have been made in all cases and results indicate that
no shortage of labor would occur; full employment of the family labor force
would even occur in bottomlands development for rice and sorghum production
during the sowing, weeding and harvesting periods (June, October and
November). Net retuirns per mdna-day for the bullock-fattening sub-project
are significantly lower than those without the project; however, the family
labor otherwise unemployed would be involved in the bullock-fattening
cycle. The popularity of this practice in the sub-project area suggests
the absence of alternative economic activities, as well as strong social
and religious reRsons to complement purely economic motivations (pars
3.30). Financial returns per man-day for market gardening are the highest
among the sub-projects, in line with the expected high yields and prices cf
vegetables in the vicinity of the largest consuming center, Yaound&.
E.   Government Cash Flow
6.11      Project-supported agricultural activities are not, in general,
for crops which can be directly taxed by Government. On thz other hand,
about 60% of expenditures financed under the second RDF project would be to
create physical assets whose subsequent maintenance would eventually be
borne by the beneficiaries. The modest recurrent expenses bevond the
project period, at Government's charge attributable to the second RDF
project, are operating expenditures for RDF and the provincial planning
units in the Center and South Provinces and the northern region, estimated
at about CFAF 0.2 billion (US$0.4 million). These would be covered by
additional Goverrment revenues from indirect taxes on consumption
expenditures arising from increased preduction and incomes.  rhe recurrent
costs for the maintenance of the 350 km access roads opened under the
second project, estimated at CFAF 50 million (US$100,000), would be covered
by the export tax on estimated incremental cocoa production. Moreover, on
the 50% difference between the farmgate and f.o.b. prices of cocoa,
Goverrment would earn an additional, unidentifiable amount of taxes from
increased revenues of ;rivate exporters to whom about 75% of this
difference accrtes,  £herefore, the financial burden for GovernmenL during
the 6-year disbursemnnt period of the second project is equivalent tc its
contribution to project costs, i.e., CFAF 8.9 billion (US$18.1 million),
plus operating cost associated with the first RDF Project during project
execution/debt service on the IBRD loan, and thereafter would consist
solely of the debt service on that loan (Annexes 6-3 and 6-4).
F.   Cost Recovery
6.12      The second RDF project addresses this issue oy adapting user
charges for bottomlands where Government's agreement has already been
obtained in previous Bank-assisted projects. Additionally, for the RWS
sub-project, the second project would introduce a national policy governing
the principle of beneficiaries' participation in rural water supply
(para 5.08).



- 42 -
6.13      Bottomlands Development.  As under the SENRY I, II and III
Projects, SEMRY would charge a user fee to the beneficiaries of th"
1,000 ha bottomlands development sub-project in the northern regiou. To
fully cover development costs, such fee would amount to CFAF 17,000/year/ha
over 12 years. Additionally, operating costs amounting to CFAF
29,000/year/ha, principally covering inputs and ploughing, would alse be
borne by the participants. Thus, post-project maintenance costs would be
fully covered by the participants. Given the pilot nature of the 20 ha
bottomlands development for vegetable cultivation in the Yaounde area, the
initial cost recovery for this sub-project is limited to 50% of the
development costs of a typical 0.2 ha farm plot, or CFAF 140,000. It is
expected that farmers would not be willing to incur a more substantial
financial risk until financial viability is proven. However, as the
operation progresses and beneficiaries see its attractive financial
returns, similar future sub-projects financed under the line of credit
would include a cost recovery scheme. Besides, farmers would provide for
maintenance of their plots with their own family labor.
6.14      Rural Water Supply.  Government is committed lo the irinciple
that the costs of operation, maintenaiice and replLcement of rural water
systems should be covered by the beneficiaries. The National Water
Committee will propose ways and means of implementing this principle.
Government will also exchange views with the Bank on the recommendations of
the Committee (para 8.01(g). Implementation of the Dolicy is expected to
be based on the Communal Law 14/23 of December 5, 1974 -r4 its subse-uent
application decrees which provide a legal basis for I .cal special purpose
taxes. The Bank has agreed with Government that full recovery of
investment and operating costs for schemes of the typD to be provided
under, and in the conditions of, the second RDF project, is not a realistic
initial objective, but that it will have to be realized gradually. The
Bank has indicated that initial cost recovery should extend to the
operation and routine maintenance costs. Adoption ot a satisfactory policy
in this area is a condition of disbursement for the well-drilling component
(para 8.03).
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RIZKS
A.   Major Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      The main benefits of the second RDF project would be (a) the
development of an instititional capability within MINAGRI to prepare and
appraise small rural sub-projects and to manage investment funds for this
purpose; (b) assistance in developing and implementing a national policy
governiing the principle of beneficiaries' participation in rural water
supply installations; (e) further strengthening of RDF management; and



- 43 -
(d) support to village level administration. These indirect benefits,
through institutioaal reforms financed under the pro2ect, overshadow its
direct, quantifiable benefitb
7.02     'The identified sub-projects would also have substantial, if not
always quantifiable, benefits. Approximately 11.00 families would benefit
from the bottomlands development sub-projects 4.i the northern region and
around Yaound6.  The rural water supply su5b-project would provide about
350,000 beneficiar-es with clean drinking water throughout the year in the
seven northernrost departments of the northern region where the population
densities are the highest and the lack of potable water is the most acute.
Potable water is absolutely necessary and the benefits from time saved in
fetching and carrying water, and probably from improved health conditions,
would be s:ibstantial. In the Mandara Mountains, a northern region ..hich is
ecologically and agriculturally among the poorer in Cameroon, some 2,000
farmers would participate in the bullock-fattening sub-project. The
groundnuts marketing and shelling sub-project would assist 20,000 cotton
growing farmers in marketing groundnuts grown as a rotational crop. The
functional literacy sub-project would promote ths establishment of village
groups by training some 5,000 villagers in numerical literacy and thus
helping them achieve self-mar'gement in input supply and distribution,
cotton and food crop marketing, and credit administration. Some 5,000
existing farmers would benefit from the access roads sub-project and an
additional 1,000 families would likely be settled.
B.   Economic Analysis
7.03      Economic rates of return have been calculated for all productive
sub-projects on the bat.is of the following assumptions: (a) a 20-year
economic life with no ratidual values, except for the access road, in the
Center and South Provinces which include residual values of road
construction machinery and equipment in PY6; (b) economic prices
projections up to 1990 for outputs (paddy, sorghum, maize, cocoa) and for
inputs (fertilizers and pesticides) ; (c) a standard conversion factor of
0.77 -.plied to local costs; (d) opportunity costs of unskilled labor
estimated for each sub-project, reflecting geographical dispersion of
sub-project sites and differences in local opportunities for earning
incomes, ranging from 750 CFAF/man-day for bottomlands near Yaounde to
220 CFAF/man-day in the Mandara Mountains of the northern region.
7.04      In e_ lition to the above basic assumptions, specific assumptions
are made for eac? sub-project. The base case for bottomlands development
in the northern region incorporates the occurrence uf late and deiicient
rains once every five years, which results in no rice product-on and ir. a
reduction of dry season sorghum yield by 50%.
7.05      For the access roads sub-project in tl  SODECAO aria, an economic
anaLysis was made for illtu.rative purposes, based on PMECT rc-:orded past
experience, which lead to the assumptions that: (a) 30 ha of existing
plantations would benefit from each .zilometer of newly constructed road;



- 44 -
(b) improved maintenance and application of pesticides against capsid and
blackpod made possible by new roads could increase cocoa beans vields by
100 kg/ha, from 120 kb!ha to 220 kg/ha; (c) 20% of ex'sting old plantaticns
not attended by farmers because of serious access difficulties would become
accessible, thus increasing marketable cocoa by 220 hg/ha; and (d) 1.5 ha
of rew cocoa and 6 ha of foodcrop %t"uld be established per kilometer of
newly constructed road. In addition, rates of return were calculated for
the case where no new plantations are developed, as assumed above.
Moreover, the opening of access roads woula result in secondary benefits,
such as an easier evacuation of foodcreps aLd the stimulation of local
trade in consumer goods. These add':ional banefits are not readily
quantifiable.
7.06      The bullock-fattening sub-project includes benefits from
incre& ed production of meat, as well as sorghum and groundnuts as a
result of farm manure application. Benefits from the sheiling and
marketing 'perations are calculated on the basis of value-added, astimated
from shelled and unshelled prices prevailing in local markets. Results are
summarized on the following page, together with the estimated number of
beneficiaries and thcir individual share in total costs. No rate of return
has been calculate,. for the strengthening of agricultural planning, the
studies, rbe line o4 credit, and the rural water supply and functional
literacy training sub-projects for which there. are no readily quantifiable
benefits. The sensitivity analysis demonstrates that the sub-projects
would generate acceptable levels of returns over a range of assumptions.
Although the analysis suggests possible high risks in the bullock-fattening
sub-project, given the severe lack of alternstive economic activities in
the northern region it is considered a worthwhile undertaking.



- 45 -
ECONO.nC jXALYSIS
Economic Rates of Return (MER-2)
S Share in
Base Cost  Benet2   No. of   Costs per   Total Proj.
Ites              Case + 0l  lag 1 Yr Benefic.    Benefic.   Costs a/
1. StiN ngthening of Agsic.
Planning                  -    -       _           _       _          3.9
2. Strengthening of RDF
Manapaent                       -                  -   -              6.2
3, Stud1ies and Line of Credit  -    -      -          -        -18.4
4. Bottoalands Nort~ebrn
Region b/                21   14      ?1       1,000     861          2.7
5. Rural Uater Supply          -    -       -    350,000       53        50.9
6. Bullock-fattening          21    0       1      2,000       36         0.3
7. Groundnut H2rketL.n Shelling  25  i6    13      20,000      30         1.9
8. Junctional Lit^racy         -    -              5,000      116         1.7
9. Bottoalands Aroand YpoundE   3?  29     21        200    2,500         1.5
10. Access Roads              .0   15      13      6,000      670        12.5
(Ex1. nev Plarntations)    (14) (10)    (9)   (5,O000    803        (12.5)
Total                                                               100.0
Weighed ER of productive
sub-proje.tt (4,6,7,9,10)    22  15   13           -       -         18.9
a/   Percentage shares in total baseline pioject cozts.
b/   Thib assumes that late anc deficient rains occur oicre  1eryf    5 years
(PYs 2, ,, 12, and 17).
0.   Risks
7.07      The major risk that the second RDF project might face would be a
lack of competence in marageaent, both in P.DF and in the sub-project
Implementing agencies. In view of the importance of financial management
expertise to carry cut .Tportant sub-projects, technical assistance would
be --cvided for RDF management. Based on experience under the first RDF
Prcject, for which the lack of management c&pacity in the executing
agencies  _u_e 2 S considerable delay in implementation and put an
administrative burden on thke RDF manEgement, the second RD' project would
lim.t itself to executing agencies with proven general, financial, and
technicai managemert capability. Tighter selection criteria and



- 46 
well-defined conventions bet-4een PDF and the executing agencies -;ould
reduce this risk. Moreover, since each sub-project is self-standing, the
possibilities of a major project problem would be substantially diminished.
7.08      The physi'al execution of 1,000 boreholes is not expected to pos
a prc,blem since it would be implemented by competent contractors sele~cted
ur.der ICB, and the program is tG 'he managed by the PMCU, staffed with a
qualified Cameroonian and an engiueering consulting team. The primary
cisk, however, would be whether villagers are motivated and a via'le
maintenance system for pumps is established.  Staff of the Cctmunity
Develepment Department would be mobilized to ensure the participation of
the villagers in the pump maintenance scheme before the actual boreholc
operations start.  During the project implementatior period, supervision
missions would look Into prepa:atory activities .at the village level and at
the maintenance progiam fer pumps, so as to derec. any problem at its early
stage.
7.09      Tie development of local capability in planning, identification,
preparation, and appraisal of small-scale rural rub-prajects is at the core
of the second RDF rroject.  Given this relatively novel concept and
practice in the Cameroonian context, there is a risk that funds provided by
the line of credit would not be exhausted due to a lack of adequlately
appraised small sub-projects. To minimize this risk, technical assistance
is proposed at the Provincial De-egations of HINAGRI in Garoua and Yaounde;
Cameroonian counterparts would be trained at appropriate institutions as
well as on-the-job. Once the local capacity for carrying out RDF
operations is developed, this type of operation will be a f'exible vehicle
to reach the rural population at large, at a relatively low cost, and to
complement on-going develorment schemes with high priority small-scale
rura'l investmt.nts.
VIII,  zGREM2ENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATION
8.31      riuring negotiations, agreements were reached with Government on
the following:
(a) RDF's accounts will be kept separately from FONADER?s other
accounts, arnd audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close cf each financial year \para 4.11);
(b) any reorganization of YO'NADER will ensure iCDF's administrative
and financial autonomy (para 3.01);
(c)  key RIF staff will have at all times qualifications and
experience satisfactc y tc the Bank (para 5.04);
(d) RDF will prepare annual work programs and budgets, and submit
them to the Bank for review bv May 1, of each year
(para 5.05);



- 47 -
(e) specific conditionalities will be covered in operational
agreements between FONADER/RDF and the executing agencies
(para 5.06);
(f)  consulrants will be appointed by December 31, 1985, to advise
Governnent in national rura_ water supply (para 5.08); and
(g) a policy of recovery of mnaintenance and renewal costs of RWS will
be pursued, and the National Vater Committee will propose ways
and means to this end; the Comnittee will exchange views
periodically with the Bank Cit Droposals for rural water supply
(para 6.14).
8.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the assumption of dities of RDF's financial controller and senior
accountant (para 3.05);
(b) the deposit by Government of CFAF 400 million (US$0.8 million) as
initial working capital into RDF's account (para 4.05);
(c) the creation of the Planning Management and Control Unit (PMCU)
in SOFSAR (para 5.09); and
(d) the employment of engineering consultants (para 5.10).
8.03      A condition of disbursement against categories l(b) and 3 of the
Lsan Agreement would be that Government has adopted the national policy
governing the principle of beneficiaries' participation in rural water
supply (paras 5.08 and 6.14).
8.04      Under these conditions, the second Rural Development Fund project
iF suitable for an IBPD loan of US$25.5 million.
WAPAD
May 1985



I-"sI-



CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
DETAILTED PPOJECT COST RY COMPOxT1NT
(US$  000T)
PY1        PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5       Total
I. Institutional Development
A.  Strengthening of Agric. Planning         359.1       312.5       312.5        85.1        73.3    1,142.5
B.  Strengthening of RDF Management
- Headquarters                           414.7      360.3       370.3       278.6       196.9    1,620.8
- SOFSAR                              2,118.9    2,053.5    2,071.9    1,584.0    1,459.9    9,288.2
C.  Priority Studies/Line of Credit          270.8    1,177.3    1,520.2    2,002.3    1,502.4    6,473.0
Sub-Total I                          3,163.5    3,903.6    4,274.9    3,950.0    3,212.5   18,524.5
II. Identified Sub-Projects
A.  Bottomlands Development - North          142.1       314.6       226.4        95.7        82.2       861.0
B.  Rural Water Supply                     1,662.6    4,946.2    5,048.2    4,900.6          745.8   17,303.4
C.  Bullock-Fattening                         53.1        18.4         -           -           -          71.5
D.  Groundnut Marketing/Shelling             285.9       184.4       135.0         -           -         605.3
E.  Functional Literacy Training             145.4       148.9       169.6       110.4         5.4       579.7
F.  Bottomlands Development around
Yaounde                               205.1        79.5        71.5        71.5        71.5       499.1
G.  Access Roads in the SODECAO area    1,521.4          556.1       700.7       640.1       600.9    4,019.2
Sub-Total II                         4,015.6    6,248.1    6,351.4    5,818.3    1,505.8   23,939.2
Total Base Costs                           7179. 1   10k151.7   10.626.3    9X76          4^738.3   42±463.7
Contingencies - Physical                     537.4       704.6       740.9       645.5       236.0    2,864.4
- Price                       771.5    1,947.8    3,017.5    3,485.4    2,055.2   11,277.4
Total Project Costs                        Sz488.0   12.804.1   14.384.7   13.899.2    7929 5   5
x
WAPAD
May 1985                                                                                                                .



- 50 -
Annex 4-1
DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATE BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE                                               nage2 
(Totals Include Contingencies)
(LUAE 'UUU)
1          2          3           4          5         Tctil
=--         :::s=a-   mann.    --...   Z= f:= =n===:=
I. IMWSTItELT COSTS
A. CONSTR(XTIONS
IOXIIENT                            217*601.6   44*8B4.2   49418.4           -          -   311,904.3
tEJ1I                                82)062.B  101*239.6   59vSU2.8           -          -   242*835.3
GENIE CIVILE                         57*412.8 1PM9515.0 2,65947.5 2,351,545.0   32.081.7  7,599.101.9
Su*-Totl CUlSTRUCTIOlS                 357077.2 2.1449633.9 20768P493.7 2.851.545.0   32,081.7  3I153841.4
h. V4IClLES
UENIE E                             149P026.4   59p226.5   55o207.4   73,6167    4,419.9   3389566.9
MOTO                                  4P*35.9    29642.6   14t296.e   15,373.6    33e0.0    40f488.0
BI3CLLE LOUM                        609.132.0   48b344.6   61,246.1   312".9             -   7574021.6
llI4E I EN                           S6t62n.2    2*355.6   B32.3   339412.0          402.0   101*587.1
MNIUER DE 51                           7*72.           -           -          -          -      70727.0
EhIUIPVENT AUICOLE                   67927.5           -           -      669.3          -    68,596.8
PWPES                                73572.7  464.147.6   64,10.5  1534n.0    2*551.1   763202.9
NOILIER M8ISO1                       154049.2          -          -           -          -    15*049.2
Sob-Total WNICULES                      98929.0  577*21.?  210,149.0  31312.6   52*752.0  2,142,239.5
Totl IWESTNENT CSTS7                    1t346 006.2 27213M55. 2973,47.3 31640737.6   34,3-.7 10o,2940O0.9
--                                              -* 
II. RECUa T COSTS
A. IENICULES t EWUIPOTS
EICLES                             3MA41.7  4810746.9  597*276.4  559*239.5  600*606.2  2,633,510.7
S*-Totul WIClES I EUIIPVWTS          39,641.7  4811746.9  597*276.4  559o239.5  600606.2 2638*510.7
3. EL
PIUEL LOCMLE                       2039694.3  283,751.1  469622.3  376,265.3  400650.?  1,733t984.4
Sb,-Total PE LSE.                     203.694.3  213*751.1  469,622.3  376,265.8  400*650.9  1,733*914.4
C. ASSISTIMCE TEC)hIhI
ASISTNMlCE 'TEC)30E                63310.6  676,432.6  53,265.9  406*353.7  227,067.0 2,534S434.9
SIMCE COLTMT                        549924.-9   72.401.0   11,150.5          -          -    13S,476.4
kb-Total ASSISTANM TEDSIUE            691,235.5  748g,33.6  5",416,4  406,35S.7  227*067.0 2p672o911.3
3. FOIDS RMVINK
FOlS IVOLVINS                       51#391.5          -          -                      -    51.391.5
Sub-Total FSS RWVIIIS                 51.391.5           -          -           -                51-  9.5
E. OTERS
EMIRETIEN IATIIENT                     723.3      794.0       369.6      943.9    1,036.3      44372.1
LMATION CASE                        42*703.9   46,375.8   51*333.5   42,381.9   34,376.6   218*676.3
FOBITtI£  EWA                       25,956.2   37*346.0   39.231.3   39,962.3   32,235.7   174P733.5
laSSES                             14*,150.2  135464.1  144*153.1   47,611.3   504WU.0   513,546.
pIum                                3090".0  512.086,4  767,52.7 1,020,037.5  77,764.4  3,03*516.1
IIIITE   OTAIES                    1009064.2   61t439.7   31,650.3   35*756.2   17,340.7   24t271.1
INPTlTS ARICOLE                           -    O1564.6   22*771.3   21,571,3   20*094.4    75*09.1
Seb-otal OTIERS                       33916.8  304*572.7 1,03,250.4 1.206,769.3   94,36.1  4,36175.4
Total  CN T COSTS                       1.65U679.9 2,31B,04.3 20724*565.5 2,Z036n.4 2,163,190.1 11,442a973.2
Total PIOJCT COSTS                      3.031.U6.0 5*040760.1 5*703*213.3 5.715*370.9 2,2U,t23.3 21,739054.1
- -                        _   s                              - 
WAPAD
'lay 1985



SUMOIARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(CFAF '000)
H YTMMLINa  AMUSE0MENT KS0 ANEXAGIMET KS MuFOIMMh36h3U   2(CUT1C609'0TKA1   FiSTAS if             RJMNEOMI(TIKS. [J35--------
11SAR TAxeR  0530  W:9   9ILLAOE0I5E  963-V019-399    lS-FONIOS-SIO  VFOCTU4NLLLE               066(0K          SE1969E 130  KCflO.NI2963       K CKBIT           T1.l1      I    960o42
1. 2ITMSTKIIT COSTS
A. CUNSTRUCTIWISS
3012ME00                                                          1 - 22,361.4            -                               -117,203.1                                                        -       243,404.5  10.0   24.344.S
AEOMEMENT                                     -    ,97.339,1             -        145.301.0        29.4473                           -         --2.172.038.3  00.3  224,413.9
GENIE CIVILE                                                     .2.6.            107,502.3               -                                    -     97,729.                                      5.325.999.9  10.1  5381,905.2
S.b-I.tl CONSRUCTION   -   149,339.115,257,29.5            25,803.2         29,447.5               -             117.3131.1    07,72.3                                      7.7 51.432.5~ 20.2  70>133.4
0. WEOICaES
1(01.K                                 12,375.6       9,700.4    191,832.3                -        11,647,7         5,330.5                    -     32,759.0          23,295.3                     290,944.9 10.0   20,694.5
Moto                                                  2,029.7       9,732.0                                        27,503.9                     -           --                              -          20,2.6  10.0    202.".4
KENICtIE [1839                               -              -      34,093.0              --                               -              74,11S.3   504,452,3                 -             -        94 1. 20.3         22.
1321NE K  WEA                          14.430.9      12,399.1     26,499.2                -           112.32.      05,6855.7                   -      4.279,1           3,764.06                     79,131.4  9.3    t.501.6
46921(0 x  WhU                          1.552,3                    -     -                -         0,32.3                                      --                      3,104.6                       6.2*9.1 00.0       LIM0.
EWIFIMENT  2C10LE                            -                                                     1    7.004.?                          30.967.9       974.5                 -             -        56,747.0  23.0    5,.09.7
FlUFfS                            -   1013,866.6       98.62l.3               -          2,290.9'--                                              -                                     2,1,23.1  8.9  211,441.7
M911.1CR MISOK                          3.139.1       3,937.2                                                                                                           6, A274.3           -         224.    0.3    1,2t4.9
Stb-Total 4E1ICULES                      31495.9   1.941.322.6    859,769.9                 -         33,317.8        39,520.2            112,9M3.1   542,265.9           36,439.7             -     3,490.241.3  9.2  310,367.0
Total I00ST1E(T MSTS                        31,495.9   3.839.642.4  6,116.791.3        252,33,2          62,785.4        30,529.3            330,066.2   6460,095.3         36,439.7              -    11.247,673.9  9.0 1.106.15>55
It. 9(090(9 costs
A. YE90CM9S I (UJIPEHETS
419IM61                               26,461.1      29,053.0    456.447.7                -        99S.336          19.9120              65,174.3  1,061,474.5         40.424,9                    1,015,376.7  10.0  181,537.7 
Stb-Total 302I01(0 0 EKIPEOEMTS         36,461.1       29.055.0    456.447.?               -         99.3566         2.2.6 MM£5,174.3  1,061.474.5                       40,424.9             -      0915.376.7  11.0  101.W37 .?
a. 9(83911                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-,
P5959(1 LOCALE                       15,530.6      215,290.0    740,032.0         52,320.0        37,910.1         34.91600.             1.350,0   243,729.2          51,600.0             -      1,435.370.2  0.0          7
It-otal ?"SONNINE                       253.5500      115.2600.    743,022 .0       52,320.0         37,900 0        34.9040 I0           1I30.0   245,729.2             51600.0                     2,435,370.2  0.0        301
C. A0SI2T15 IEDCIUI
6002395U 0(09005                     392096.6      394,043.6    M9.96" 0#                                         166.374.8-                                         240,106.2             .      2,011,353.9  0.3         C.O
SERVICE C0918T19                                                                                         -                                         -                                120,402.8       220,402.809.0          0.3
Stb-Total 9002ST9(t T[CCIDWI           202,096.6      394,045.6    900,64R                                  -       264,374.9                                           2 46,100.2    1229,402.0     2,292.956.7  2.0         0.0
0. FOlIO  9(102NG
TWIN 3010116                                        26 30               -                -        15,066.0--                                               -  -                                      42,000.0  11.3    4,000.0
Sub-Totul VOE 4191(I90                                 26,000.0            -                -        03.000                                       --                                                   42,200.0  10.1    4,100.0
0939:10# I9*91NT                             -             -       2,962.5               -                                                                                   --                       2,962.5  10.0      292.2
[ff802  CAN                           61,521.2      27,245.9            -                -          ,836.5                                           14,262.6         42,792.4              -       151.635.5  20.0    2.6,
FEMITUSE lUAU                         22,394.1     225,225.2      97,410.6                        13.672,9         29,722.3                           2.949,5         11,394.1        2,367.3       233.214.5  20.0   23.320,4
gOjOC                                164.209.1             -     229,395.2               --                         2,403.6                    --                     96,523.3       20,509,4       29M.74,  06.    39,524.3
91009                                 41,019.8             -            -         52.273,5         9,225.3               -                     --                     20,234.7  - 2,941.957.1     3,033,6191.3  0.4   11,264.2
IM IENu  0000K(                       12,437.4      30,629.7      2.463.9         24.224,2               -         4.231.1                     -     5,634.2          31,322.2      07,544.7        2817.906,2   9.0   17.157.9
OOINTIM  A39ICOLE                           -              -             -        5128.205                       -       -.-                                                 -             -        52,M.23.  20.0    500
St-Ttal 094100                          290.387.5     092,300.6    172,512.0        126,776.2        29,624.7        25.348,5                    -    22.125,2          293,297.9   3,051,370,5      4.073.952.2  2,7  111,700.?               lbI 
ToAl 1(0509 COSTS                          763,08M,2     747,6002.2  2.361.040.5        269,099.1       191,7912.       245,505.9             64,524.3  2,329,320.1        523.403.0   3,171,702.3      9.5539,54.1  3.0  297,290.4                M   M 
Total 945LI.1E COSTS                        794.292,3   4,386,262.5   9,479,647.0       421.999,0       244,566.6        204,034.0            296,596.4  1,969,423.3        559,8021.0   2.271.791.2    20.007.229.6   6.7 1.403.55-0              I.1
Fth.sicol Catiooowiao                      25.154.5    407,702.3    641,430.7          49,591.1        20,676.7         0,283.9             29,524.0   172,369,3           26,99I6.2      9,135,0      2,403,550.9  0.0         0.3                  43.
fuico Cinwtono.co                        225.240.9   1.513.796.2  2.636,29.2          136,092.4        75,454.6        73,733.1             64,522.6   604,949.0          130.196.5      30,977.5     5,525,747.9  -7.2  295.910.59
Total MISECI COSTS                        1.06,2,76,4   6,307,762.5  12,779.360.0       60130.210       340.697,9        364,043.1            396,640.0  2.746.732.9        724.924,4   3,212.072.2    27,736,727.2  6.5 .9.2.
Taom                                      96120         2533.         35.4            4767.3           29.344,4        24,297.4             27.037,9    209351.1          50.226.5      313,939.0      1,904,227.7 W 6.7 7,002.3
Treat, Eochmo,*606.    3.565,839.2  7,296,225.9                                       275.427.0       219,804.0       224,071516229129501                                 48014       15623.5         M155 M2A706.09 2.969.192,7
WAPAD
May 1985



- 52 -                             Annex 4-.'
CAslFRDN
SECOND RURAL DEVOWPMENT f010 PROJFEC
7INhiC1N  SY F5.78-PR3=
(US$ '00O)
ComOst                        ---TOAL cosT----       7bRD t   ovroent BSnofixl.rO,n
CFAF *. USS '°00
1. I..ritution.l Devdo.p et
(W) StreooStb.ing Agric. Pl0n.in2
V.hie..s sod Equispt                 48.9      100.0      ao.o       20.0
TI b.loal As.ist-ne                 283.8      580.0     460.0      120.0
Loo.1 P."oon1                       74.7       97.4       -         97.4
Op-r.tiog Co.ts/Felso.-hip          317.4      701.8     140.0      521.8
Sub-Tot-.1 1)                   724.8   1,479.2       720.0     759.2        -
(b) Strengthtains of RDF Men0oewnt
RDF beads-0rters
Vehiel.e nd Equipment                39.0       80.0      65.0       15.0
Te-holool Assist-c-                 338.4      690.0     550.0      140.0
L.00.1 P-rononel                     18.5       37.8        -        37.8
Oporating Costs                     460.       950.2       -        950.0
Sb-7.ota1 (b)                   861.4   1,758.0      6153.0   1,143.0        -
SOFSA0
V0h1l.. 0 nd e8 uipment              34.6       70.0      55.0       13.0
Toohoioal Asoiotsoce                493.7   1,010.0      810.0      200.0
Lbo1 Persoonel                       12.7       26.0       -         26.0
Opsr.tiog Coot!/Cvodit              137.9      21          -        279.6
Sob-Total                       678.9   1,385.1      065.0      520.6
(./d)PrioritY St0di../Line of Credit
Coo.ulteot.l Sori..es               232.4      470.0     380.0       90.0
Credit for Sub-Project            2,940.0   6,000.0   3,000.0   3,000.0
Op.ratine  Costs                     39.7       85.2       -         05.2
Sob-Totol (old)               3,212.1   6,555.2   3,300.0   3,175.2          -
11. Idontifi.d S-Project.
C,) Bottdlods - North
Civil Work                          353.9      720.0     580.0      140.0
Vehictle sod t qd pt                  -          -         - F
Lo.01 Person-rI                      79.2      160.0                160.0
Op-rsting Cost,                     175.2      361.5      _         361.5
00b-otal (.5                    608.3   1,241.5      580.0      661.5
(b) Rur.l W,ter Suppl1
8058di6g.                           135.2      320.0     260.0       60.0
Borehole,                         7,313.1  14,950.0  12,635.0   2,315.0
Ve.hcle. *0d Eqtip.nt               524.2   1,070.0      860.0      210.0
Pu po                               591.4   1,200.0   1,000.0       200.0
Te-boi-lI M.t./Cr.Coultot. Serv.  1,217.8   2,500.0   2,000.0       500.0
Looa Pers.,-e.                   1,085.2   2,210.0        -      1,420.0      790.0
Op-rsting Costl/Fellosbip           891.5   1.387.5      250.0   1,53P.5
S.b-T.t.1 (b)                11,778.4  24,037.5  17,005.0   6,242.5        790.0
co) Nollook F ttening
Lotorbik.s                            5.1        0.1       -          0.1        -
Credit                               30.0       71.4     _           56.4      15.0
fob-Total (c)                    15.0       71.5       -         56.5       15.0
(d) Orosod,ot  arkting/ShelOliol
Civil Work                          156.7      320.0     260.0       60.0
V0bi5l5. nd Eqoip-eot               139.0      280.0     220,0       60.0
Lcca POr-onool                        1.7        3.5       -          3.5
Operatfog Costs                      80.4       835.6      -        735.6 
S.b-Tot.1 (d)                   386.6      789.1     480.0      309.1        -
(0)  .ootioral Lit-recy
06I0010 and Oqoipsoot                54.8      110.0      90.0       20.0
Te.h.i.al Asoitono,                 198.2      400.0     320.0       80.0
Loc-1 Personmel                      49.7      100.0       -        100.0o
Opor-tino C.t                     _ 63.4       137.0      _         137.0
Sb-Total t o)                   366.1      747.0     410.0      337.0
(f) B0tto-laods - Y o..de
Civil Work                           36.2       75.0      60.0       15.0
V06i01-. sd Equtp.ent                40.7       80.0      65.0       15.0
Local Pe-oooo,l                      55.4      110.0       -        110.0
Operating Costs                     208.4      430.3       -        430.3
Sub-Toto1 (f)                   340.7      695.3     125.0      570.1
(g) Access Ro ds
CLvil Works                         138.7      280.0     220.0       60.0
Vebil.. sod 0oavy Fqoipseot         668.9   1,365.0   1,100.0       265.0
1-.00  Persoooel                    357.0      730.0       -        730.0
Op-rating Cools                   1.582.1   5,230.6        -      3,230.6
Sub-Ttotd (g)                 2,746.7   5,605.6   1,320.0   4,285.6
total Pro-3et                    21,739.0  44,365.5  25,500.0  18,060.5       005.0
PLI-, Operating Costo of RDF I
during Projeot Eoec.ti-o         5,997.7  12.240.1      _       12,040.1     200.6
rOtl RD?                              2,7.36.7  56,605.6  25500   3a 0,100.6    1005.0
WAPAD
M.y 1985



- 53 -
CA1EROON                                Annex 4-3
SECOND RLq     DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMNT SCHEDULE OF IBRD LOAN
(S  '000)
----- IBRD -------             ------- Disbursements-------                                 ---  Project ---
Year          Quarter         Quarterly            Cumulative        Total                Year          Quarter
FY 86               1                  -                                                        I- PY          1
2                                   -                                                      2
3               800                 800              3.1                                   3
4               800               1,600              6.3                                   4
FY 87              1              1,900               3,500             13.7                 PY 2              1
2             1,800               5,300             20.8                                   2
3             1,200               6,500             25.5                                   3
4               900               7,400             29.0                                   4
FY 88              1              1,100               8,500             33.3                 PY 3              1
2             1,800              10,300             40.4                                   2
3             1,600              11,900             46.7                                   3
4             1,600              13,500             53.0                                   4
FY 89              1              1,300              14,800             58.0                 FY 4              1
2             1,600              16,400             64.3                                   2
3             1,600              18,000             70.6                                   3
4             1,500              19,500             76.5                                   4
FY 90              1              1,000              20,500             80.4                 PY 5              1
2             1,000              21,500             84.3                                   2
3             1,000              22,500             88.2                                   3
4             1,000              23,500             92.2                                   4
FY 91               1               700              24,200             94.9                 p  6              1
2               500              24,700             96.9                                   2
3               300              25,000             98.0                                   3
4               200              25,200             98.8                                   4
FY 92              1                150              25,350             99.4                 PY 7              1
2               150              25,500            100.0                                   2
3                  -                  -              -                                     3
4                                                                                          4 _  _  4
26    -|   __ _ __ _   . _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r18                               *     
14-                              z
12cai * and Ouare.S
Expected Loan Effectiveness Date: mid October 1985
Project Completion Date: December 31, 1990
Expected Loan Closing Date: December 31, 1991
WAPAD
May 1985



CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Organizational Chart
COMITE NATIONAL DE L'EAU
MINMEN
r                                   NINAGRI
I                                   MINPI
MINISTERE DE                                       MINlSERE                               MINISTERE DU PLAN        MINISTERE DES
LEUEVAGE ET DE                                  DE L'AGRICULTURE                            ET DE L'INDUSTRIE        MINES ET DE
L'INDUSTRIE ANIMALF LENEIE
|DEPARTMENT DES   |                        FONADER
ETU DES PROJE) S                      DIRECTION GENERAL
DELEGATION             DELEGA1ION              DIRECTION FONDS
PROVINCIAL, SUD       PROVINCIAL NORD            SPECIAL D'ACTION   _      _         -    -    _   _
(RENFORCEMENT)         (RENFORCEMENT)              RURPLES (FSAR)
I  I                      _                     I  I                 ~~~~                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I II
I~~     ~             ~~ ~ ~~                                   ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .        
SRVICE DES                                 ADMIN 
OPERATIONs FSAR                            COPSLITEt
t   MAIROUA                                YAOUNDE                                        |
SERVICE DE LA
SANTE ANIMALE                                   SODECAO                 MIDEVIV               SODECOTON                 SEMPY
ALPHABfISATION
FONCTIONNELLE                                                           DD
(D
SERVCE CREDITS     -rYDRAULIQUE              CONSTRUCTION DE         MISE EN VALEUR       COMMERSIALISATION        1000 HA EASFONDS
EMBOUCHE EOVINE |  |       LLAGEOISE    |           KM DE ROUTE      DE 20 HA BASFONDS       ET DECORTICAGE           RIZ ET SORGHO
FSAR           m10  PORAGES PCMU           DE DESSERTE        CULTURE MARAICHERE          ARACH DF
- - - -  COORDINATION ET SUPERVISION                                                                                                          Woil BOaE -25475
WAPAD
February 19T4



CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT RID PROJECT
Impntatlon Schd
RVACIMUIIS         NW1N11Y                     _                                                                      .        .T.       
N   |    I   |I                                 |                                                              I                                           |    N
%.hld" A  _W1 DP k4fAGM
wo,_ .      f            DCP    SEWA
1WeC t_       p  (srf PU                                        -
&_-*ft N- SAIP           Kw ODSI,P
vaglowl kM9ov            %KIN *A
h -                     CsPA,MA
t o~ amP                rCP
PU   AM   IONI  W:
hA Ph
UhAOM NAJII SPPNIY
cWP or-   ,,.hl.           A 
CPtll CConf MSil' a P                  _
Pte f1 a WDS             CoA.u 
r                     cNAA. .P.Ag
KamWAV PhOKYP
SCW nb.P   CCnP  .h
9-h     5                 9)SV                                                          .        .     _                                                              3
C..d AP,A                 so%SM_
C,.w q           _        SPCSAR                     a0                                  4D                            _         A*
P  h   (PV)            SCOION
kAbs*  &W 0Y)           XOEO)
gN  h_a.$lc"           SFCOK            m                                    7                                 n
NIgKy    9-XXCOION                                 _      _-.
dWWA_ A*                XXlfCOION
A- an                    COIWP_
1P  W          vol      50fCoION
INAg kftId - 201 GV      CO N C.N
mplO"  oh               somm"                                                                                                                                       O
_e SftbO{ _ . .           kiE
ACCM .win
bo d                     WODECAO 
P A D   l-AS  SA                                                                                                                                                                                                     :



CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PUND PROJECT
YIELD ASSUMPTIONS AND PRODUCTION
Incremental   Full
PYI        PY2       PY3        PY4      PY5       PY6       PY7       PY8       PY9      PY1O    pyll  Prduction    Dev.
Full Dev.      Year
Tons
Bottomlands oevelopment (North)
Paddy kg/ha                        1,400      1,400    1,700       1,700   1,700    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000   2,000   2,000              2,000      PYII
Mouskouari kg/ha                     800        800    1,000       1,000   1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000   1,000   1,200                900      PYI1
Bullock-fattening                                                                                                                                                 PY2
Beef increase in kg/steer              -        170       170         170      170      170        170       170       170      170      170         68      PY2 & on
Bottomlands Development (YaoundO)
Vegetables (tomato, equiv.                                                                                                                                              I
tons/ha/cycle)                   10       . 16        20         20       20        20        20        20        20       20       20        640!/  PY4          Ul
Access Road
Cocoa improved plantation
kg/ha                           220        220       220        220      220       220       220       220       220      220      220      1,300      PY6
Cocoa New Plantations                  -          -         -          30     100       200       300       400        450      450      450        236      PY14
Haize kg/ha                          785        785       785         785     785       785       785        785       785      785      785      1,650      PY6
Plantain kg/ha                    13,200    13,200    9,000             -       -                    -         -         -        -        -      3,700      pY3-5
(max.)
a/ Net of 20% losses.
b/ Without project, yield is estimated at 120 kg/ha.
c/  Net of losses and seed requirement.
WAPAD
May 1985



CAMEROON
SECOSD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
SUMMARY FARM BUDGETS
Area Per Farmer    Net Return a/    Increase Over    Labor Input             Net Return             Net Return
(ha)             (CFAF)         Without Project       (Mandays)        Per Manday          Per Family Member
________________   _____________(%)  ____(CFAF)            (CFAF)
Bottomlands Development (North)
Without Project                             1.94         152,134                                    206          739                  30,427
With Project    PY  1-2                     3.7          246,024                   62               404          609                  49,205
PY  3-5                    3.7          262,034                   72              424          618                  52,407
PY  6-20                   3.7          292,894                   92              444          660                  58,579
Bullock-Fattening
Without Project                             1.4          122,000                     -              180          678                  24,400                             tn
With Project    PYI                         1.4           93,500                    12              280          334                  18,700
PY2                        1.4          179,500               (average)           333           539                  35,900
Bottomlands Development (Yaoundg)
With    Project PYI                         0.2          142,000                     -              140        1,014                  28,400
PY2                        0.2          534,000                    -              160        3,338                  106,800
PY3 and oni                0.2          673,000                    -              180        3,739                  134,600
SODECAO b/
Illustrative I ha      PY1                  1            244,700  (244,700)         -               194        1,261       (1,261)   48,940
New Cocoa Plantation  PY2                   1            229,570  (262,970)         -               209        1,098       (1,258)   45,914    (40,783)
PY3                 1            162,600  (196,000)         -               143        1,137       (1,371)   32,520    (32,667)
PY4                 1            -26,520    (6,880)          -               58         -457         (119)   -5,304       (1,147)
PY5-8               1             31,900   (65,350)         -                62          515       (1,053)    6,380    (10,883)
PY9-30              1             91,100  (124,500)         -                76        1,199       (1,638)   18,220    (20,750)
Illustrative I ha
Improved Plantation
Without Project                             1             35,520                    -                16        2,220                   7,104                        x
With Project                                1             44,520   (63,520)        25  (79)          30        1,484       (2,118)    8,904    (12,704)             o
a/  Net return is defined as gross value of production minus costs of production, debt services and losses.
b/  Figures in parentheses show returns with 100% subsidized pesticides as is the actual case.
WAPAI)
May 1985



CAMEROON
SEODND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW a/
(CFAF Million)
-------------------- PROJECT ---------------------
PY 1       PY 2        PY 3        PY 4        PY 5         PY 6       PY 7       PY 8       PY 9        PY 10    PY l1       PY 12       PY 13      PY 14      PY 15
1985/86   1986/87    1987/88        1988/89   1989/90        1990/91   1991/92   1991/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00
A.  INFLOW
1. Bank Loan                                 785       2,840       2,990       2,940       1,960         830        150          -           -          -          -          -          -          -           -
2. Taxes on Project Cost                       -         208         394         508          522        272         20         20         21         16         12          12         12         12         12
3. Expenditure Taxes b/                        -           8          20          32           39         42         42         43         43         44         44          45         45         46         46
4. Export Taxes on Cocoa c/                    -          16          33          50           66         83         84         85         86         87          95         96         98         98          98
5. Beneficiaries' Contribution
- Bottomlands-North d/                  -            6          19          30          34         34         34         34          34         34         30         19          6                      -
- Bottomlands-South d/                  -            -           7          13          18         20         22         22          22         22         22         22         22         22          22
- Water Supply                         22           22         43           68          92         92         92         92          92         92         92         92         92          92         92
Total Inflows                       807       3,100       3,506       3,641        2,731      1,373        444        296        298         295        295        286        275        270_        270
B.  OUTFLOW
1. Project Costs e/                       3,3031       4,551       4,968       4,735       1,513           -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -
2. Post Project A0fmin. f/                     -           -           -            -           -        260        215        277        215        158        168        158         158        158        158
3. Line of Credit                              -         490         735         980          735                           -               -          -           -               -           -                -
4. Operating Costs FSAR I g/               1,127       1,233       1,346       1,095       1,196          88         88         88         88         88         88          88         88         88         88
Total Outflows                    4,158       6,274       7,049       6,810       3,444         348        303        365        303        246         256        246        246        246         246
C.  OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)
(Before Debt Service)             (3,353)     (3,174)    (3,543)    (3,169)          (713)      1,025        141       (69)        (5)         49          29         40         29         24          24
D.  DEBT SERVICE
Interest Charges                         164          409         668         917       1,080      1,068      1,002         925        848        771        694        617        540         463        386
Principal                                               --                      -            -       833        833        833         833        833        833        833        833         833        833
Total Debt Service                  164         409         668         917       1,080       1,901      1,835      L,758      1,681      1,604      1,527      1,450       1,373      1,29t      1,219
NET CASH DEFICIT                                                                                    _U6 I*_L  =   _   12'  .   i1694  J5U2  1.,=  ,j                                           -7-      L452 .
a/  In current terms throughout the pi  ect, thereafter in constant 1989/90 terms.
b/ 15% on consumption expendituren eg,lvalent to 25% of value of increased production.
c/  On estimated incremental produc ion from  improved and new plantings due to opening of 350 km of access roads.
F/ Prom Table 3, Annex 6 of Project I ile.
e/ Including contingencies, net of I -Se of credit.
f/ For details see Annex 6-4, (exclding recurrent RDF 1 costs).
Costs from PYI-5 include construc-ion of 6 new dams in the Manidara Mountains plus rehabilitation of about
100 wells annually.
WAPAD
May 1985
(D
m



- 59 -
Annex 6-4
CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
RECURRENT PROJECT COSTS
Total
Component                       Project       PY6        PY7       PY8       PY9     PY10       PY1l      PY12      FY13     PY14      PY15
I. Institutional Development
A. Strengthening Agric. Planning a/
Vehicles & Equipment                      56         -          -          2         -        -
Local Personnel                         165        ,6           6          6         6        6         6         6        6         6         6
Operating Costs                          215         5          5          5         5        5         5         5        5         3         5
Total                                436         11         11         13       11        11        11       11        11        11       11
B. RDF Headquarters b/
Vehicles & Equipment                      37         9          -          -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Local Personnel                           20         4          4          4        4         4
Operating Costs                         218         43         30         30       30         -       _         _          -         -       _
Total                                275         56         34         34       34
SOFSAR c/
Vehicles & Equipment                      32         8          -          -         -
Local Personnel                          14          3          3          3        3
Operating Costo                         124         25         20         20       20
Total                                170         36         23         23       23         -         -                  -         -        -
C. Studies/Line of Credit a!
II. Identified Sub-Projects
A. Bottomlands Development (North) ,/
B. Rural Water Supply
Boreholes, Superstructures f/            780         52         52         52       52        52        52       52        52        52        52
C. Bullock-Fattening
D. Groundnut Marketing/Shelling
Construction h/                          143          7          7          7         7        7         7         7        7         7         7
E. Functional Literacy d/
P. Bottomlands Development (Yaound6)
Vehicles & Equipment                       39        10          -          -         -        -        10         -        -         -         -
Local Personnel                            60        12         12         12       12        12        12       12        12        12       12
Operating Costs                           198        30         30         30       30        30        30       30        30        30       30
Total                                 297         52         42         42       42        42        52       42        42        42       42
G. Access Roads h/
Construction                             155          6          6          6        6         6         6        6         6         6        6
Vehicles & Heavy Equipment               602          -          -          -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Local Personnel (peom.)                   343          -         -          -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Operating Costs                        1,457         40         40         40       40        40        40       40        40        40       40
Total                               2,517         46         46        46        46        46       46        46        46        46       46
TOTAL CHARGES i/                                 240        215        277      215       158      168       158       158       15N      158
Taxes 7.5  i/                                     20         20         21       16        12       13        12        12        12       12
a/ Since the Provincial Delegations will also work for other projects, only 1 local staff member has been retained in each for purposes
of continuing post-project supervision.
b/  Since all project components reach full development by PY9, RDF staff is no longer required for project supervision.
c/ Sub-project completed by PYs,
d/ No recurrent costs.
e/ Maintenance and replacement of pumps to be assured by beneficiaries.  Costs of superstructure maintenance only.
f/ Maintenance assured by beneficiaries.
/ Maintenance of warehouses.
h/ Maintenance of structures, replace,.nt and operating cost of grader and tipper truck.
i/ Cash flow Annex 6-3.
WAPAD
May 1985






M A L I         NIGER              ./                                   1nn nraT.as Oce pe Ya_ rd by
.,r' 'n-                            sVttaie yd            C               lor mt t zDY.zD TveW dtheW , Cd  t =    
CAns'            i,, SU11DAN      redr . o se,eucfrh
N.  __J                                    t-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,on -e of The Worl Bac
UPPER                 ~'                         HA                         tvtoit iaoet  Ae 
VOLTA  J1IN                                                                   o C H A D  tat ,,, drn tons
E         N I G E R I A     J,,-, pane T                                       -e - Word Bane antd th 
)   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~j,~t-tNL,/st.'DJAMENA
GHANA                          ,           /  CENTRAL AFRICAN               oy   Ict-oe,oraoy
/               ,,,.          ,:        REPUBLIC    .                     o .aynote o
'   :;  C A M E R O C Nq  (                    KILOMETERS 0   20  dO  60  8   00 I20 14  160 
Gte/f atoWlDlt  '0    9                   \                                  MtLES 0     20   d0       60    80      00
5Z A IRE
&ONGOi
t,srLAp&r/co AtACt           GABON                                                           N   I G    E  R    A
UNITED  REPUBLIC  OF CAMEROON
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Project Area, Institutions And Location  Of Identified  Sub-Projects
Yonends'- RDF, SODECAO, MIDEVIV,          6   Nationa,l capitols
t.    CENEEMA Hq. Also Snot aF
Delegation Pruvinciole dAgriul,rer           Provincial copitals
O    Moroou-RDF operotonol di-tsi-n Hq.  1 3 Division capitals
Yogoeo-SEMRY Hq.                          0  Sub division capitols
Garooa -   SODECOTON, PES Hq.                 District capitols
Delegation Provinciole dAgricultere       c  Other towns                                 t 01.\
Ruol water supply sub-proiect area    *          Airports
7r BEattornod deenlepreent area,                   ),Diorsio lboudaries
-th-    -r-                                 - Prouthcia ce  boundaries
$  ,     Bullockt lahernitg otedit area        - -     Internatronl  boundaries
*i-  Adult literacy and groj-dnot marke-tng
TZUL  Ado-ro.o.  plateou  RDP area
I        B.l [ Bottom,ond deuelop,,ent Yoo-nde,
Centre Sooth proince
F        Access roads, SODECAO area
r    --      Paoed roads,uotivoli
Unpaved roods,noti1vol                                                                                       Mb
Unpaved roads previvciol
Unpooed rads, district
Raitroods                                                                 /
Rivers
4.  Ports                                                                    /    S; t lll --                                                            v\
N    IG              A A,                                                     C
)    .    .  .            -b <~W.             oMy Dtun                      Y    T,b.1f9r   y   J                                         S     A FR   
> ~ ~~~~    ~~~             .gtj   ©                   j      tanya) ,iXFUBM   Ms   om_'
2                       >
*.oeba' Mop ONkon   --kLnn,,rslor © t a -   -
H--  ©~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
7  "a,  vor, be0  C   RAMENDA'N'  -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-O'                                                                   CA  
/   :G  PzO:                    :; 0  -   Kan  D..hsng©.  q  PSA°M  tesss,or, on
-   sao? 0            Er  nt       Oe  00r
MK-0                                       0    B.  v   v                                          -         Oin=akunon
,U   -A                                                                            N .g. n In  I  It'    E  Dbik&
a"          't~~>O   Orb-r.                                       0/  0  '                          .Bysg                      R~
o                         5AN~tcard   -                .sin1k-               Muynr
EQUATORAL                                                         Nyeo,~
GUIVNEA%jsun
tIIusuAu   uIrcl0
AJ'LANrIC  ~     ~     ,                                   Stasnoors                 Divib0 EN.1
OCEAN         Ci,nn~~~Ak..        0            AnonOrn
EUATORIAL GUINEA                                GA                N                         CON GO0
iO*     'F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



