Document of           _
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY       7 _    .     -  77 
FILE COPY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION                  Report No. P-2018a-YU
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE-SARAJEVO
AND
ZAJEDNICA ELEKTROPRIVREDNIH ORGANIZACIJA HRVATSKE-ZAGR
AND
ELEKTROPRENOS - SKOPJE ORGANIZACIJA ZA PRENOS ELEKTRIC
ENERGIJE U SASTAVU ELEKTROSTOPANSTVA MAKEDONIJE-SKOPJ
AND
ELEKTROPRENOS-TITOGRAD ORGANIZACIJA ZA PRENOS ELEKTRIC,
ENERGIJE U SASTAVU ELEKTROPRIVREDE CRNE GORE-NIKSIC
AND
ELEKTROISTOK - BEOGRAD ORGAN-IZACIJE ZA PRENOS ELEKTRICNE ENERGIJE
U SASTAVU ZDRUZENOG ELEKTROPRIVREDNOG PREDUZECA-BEOGRAD
AND
ZDRUZENA ELEKTROGOSPODARSKA PODJETJA SLOVINIJE-MARIBOR
WITH Tht GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SECOND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
June 13, 1977
Ibis document has a restcriced distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit               =             Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$i                                       Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                     US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                 US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                             US$55,555.55
*The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The
currency equivalents given above are as of May 31. 1977,
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBFEVIATIONS
LDR           -       Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
SFRY          -       Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
JUGEL         -       Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
BOAL          -       Basic Organization of Associated Labor
WOAL          -       Work Organization of Associated Labor
COAL          -       Composite Organization of Associated Labor
KW            -       1 kilowatt or 1,000 watts
NW            -       1 megawatt or 1,000 kw
GW            -       1 gigawatt or 1,000,000 kw
KWh           -       1 kilowatt hour or 1,000 watt hours
GWh           -       1 gigawatt hour or 1,000,000 kwh
TWh           -       1 terawatt hour or 1,000 GWh
KV            -       1 kilovolt or 1,000 volts
KVA           -       1 kilovolt ampere or 1,000 volt amperes
MVA           -       1 megavolt ampere or 1,000 KVa
/a            -      per annum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA - SECOND POWER TRANSMSSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:          Six electric power organizations in the republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro,
Serbia and Slovenia. The Loan would be distributed
among the six Borrowers in proportion to the estimated
cost of the project within their respective Republics.
Coordinator:        The Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL)
would sign the Loan Agreement as coordinator for
planning, engineering, procurement, supervision of
construction and technical assistance, and as agent
for disbursement and repayment of the Loan.
Guarantor:          Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:             US$80 million equivalent in various currencies.
Beneficiaries:      Portions of the loan to the six borrowers would be made
available on the same terms to an additional 12 power
organizations.
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year
grace period, with interest at 8.2 percent.
ProJect             The project is the second phase of a 380-kV power
Description:       transmission network.  The project comprises the
construction of about 1,000 km of single circuit
transmission lines, 16 new sub-stations and the
extension of 8 existing sub-stations with a total
transformer capacity of about 10,000 MVA, 3 switching
stations, and 9 dispatch centers (1 federal, 6 republican,
and 1 for each of the two autonomous provinces of Vojvodina
and Kosovo). The project includes studies of management,
tariffs, and system development. The 380-kV system
coupled with adequate dispatch facilities is designed to
allow for greater reliability, flexibility, and economy
in supplying power throughout the country. The second
phase (1977-82) of the 380-kV system is an extension and
refinement of the basic power grid established under the
first phase or first Power Transmission Project in 1972
(Loan No. 836-YU) and will specifically serve to meet
demands in areas where the existing 220-kV and llO-kV
systems are rapidly approaching their rated capacity and
connect a number of larger cities and rapidly expanding
industrial areas to the 380-kV network.
This docuwmnt ha a rftricted distribuUon S may b ud by recipients only in the prfoomsm
of their odikbW dutbn. Its aontst may not othbrwb be tinebk   without World hnc author. ..



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                 US$ Million
Percent
(of total
Local     Foreign      Total     Project Cost)
Land and Rights                  5.0         -           5.0            1
Line Equipment                  46.8        23.2        70.0           10
Sub-station Equipment           27.3        83.6       110.9          16
Dispatch and Communication
Equipment                      8.3        57.5        65.8          10
Other Equipment                  4.2         4.2         8.4            1
Civil Works                     78.9         8.8        87.7           13
Erection                        33.3         3.7        37.0            6
Import Duties                   21.7         -          21.7           3
Miscellaneous Works               7.9        -           7.9            1
Engineering, Administration    14.7          3.8        18.5           3
Studies                          0.3         0.7         1.0           -
Contingencies:
Physical 5%                   12.5         9.2       21.7            3
Price                        145.7        79.3      225.0           33
Total                      406.6       274.0      680.6          100
Financing Plan:
Sources of Funds:                         US$ Million          Percent
Internal Sources                              251                 37
IBRD Loan                                      80                 12
EIB Loan /a                                    30                  4
Likely Foreign Financing /b
(Suppliers' Credits, Loans)                 129                 19
Local Bank Loans                              191                 28
Total                                     681                100
/a  Tentative estimate pending actual EIB approval of loan.
/b Tentative estimates pending actual bidding for suppliers' credits.
Estimated Disbursements:
Amount (US$ Million)
Calendar Year            Annual        Cumulative
1977                    3              3
1978                    7             10
1979                   15             25
1980                   24             49
1981                   26             75
1982                    5             80



- iii -
Technical            About 29 man-months for consultant assistance (through
Assistance:         JUGEL) with the preparation of tender and bid documents
for all dispatch facilities. About 70 man-months for
consultant assistance (through JUGEL) for the continua-
tion of ongoing work related to the management study
(including the work for extending the study to the in-
dividual composite power organizations in the respective
republics), tariff study, and least-cost development
study. The average costs of these services are estimated
at about US$7,100 per man-month (excluding contingencies)
and include computer time and other overheads.
Rate of Return:      The rate of return on Yugoslavia's overall power develop-
ment program for 1976-1982 of which the project is an
integral part, is estimated at 13.6 percent.
Estimated Prolect   Transmission lines and substations:  December 31, 1981
Completion Date:   Dispatch facilities:  December 31, 1983
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1472b-YU
Date: June 13, 1977
Power and Energy Development Division
EMENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO SIX YUGOSLAV ELECTRIC POWER ORGANIZATIONS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to six electric power organizations in the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia (the borrowers), with the
guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent
of US$80 million to help finance part of the foreign exchange costs for a
second project for power transmission. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
In addition to the Bank and the six borrowers, the loan agreement would be
signed by three additional electric power organizations (the apex or composite
organizations of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia who would guarantee the
financial performance on behalf of their constituent member organizations)
and by the agency coordinating the project execution, the federal Union of
Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL), who would also act as the channel
for disbursement and repayment of the loan. Co-financing for the project
would be provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB), suppliers' credits
and commercial loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A special Economic Mission to review the new development plan and
the new planning system visited Yugoslavia in October and November 1976, and
its report is under preparation. Some of the material gathered by the Mission
has been utilized for updating the information contained in the subsequent
paragraphs of this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an average
rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1975,
per capita GNP was about US$1,480 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
1/   Part I of this report is substantially identical to that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Eighth Highway Project
(Report No. P-1967a-YU) dated March 3, 1977.



-2-
impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy which has moved towards a modern industry/service
oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and Provinces
to 0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force from agriculture to industry
and services. Despite this, however, by 1975, 37 percent of the employed
resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly
on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted for 23 percent,
and other sectors for 40 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest technologically identifiable unit of
operation) in every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most
important social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation
down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the
management and financial responsibility for social activities (health, educa-
tion, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to Communities
of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific services).  Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be--and progressively
is--similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role in economic and social development; it accounts for 85 percent
of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5 person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agri-
cultural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--has emerged as one of the most impor-
tant development issues of the country. Four regions can be distinguished
by stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia, Croatia
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even within



-3-
these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita income between 67 to
75 percent of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated Less Developed Regions (LDRs). The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average income of only 33 percent of the
national average (about US$490.0 equivalent), is at the bottom of the spread.
These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to intra-regional
disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between communes can
extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor
rural communes within the LDRs which largely determines the disparity between
the regions. The rate of economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only
slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population
growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent in the more developed regions)
the income disparity has tended to widen significantly during the last two
decades. In order to reverse this trend and to accelerate economic growth
and social development in the LDRs, mechanisms have been instituted for
sizeable transfers of financial resources. In 1975, net credits on highly
favorable terms (containing a grant element of around 50 percent) were,made
available through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less
Developed Regions to the LDRs in the amount of US$370 million, equivalent
to about 20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. An addi-
tional US$197 million were transferred as budgetary grants for social services.
The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in line with
the growth in total GDP.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 4 percent of the resident labor force in 1975. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated 800,000 out of a total labor force of around 9 million
(in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. Third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1974, Yugoslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972, respec-
tively. Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by
almost 40 percent (9 percent in real terms) and total consumption expenditures
by about 41 percent (13 percent in real terms). The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both in the rise of em-
ployment and of imports--both in nominal and real terms--and domestic prices.
The gain in total employment amounted to about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded
for the first time the natural increase of the labor force. Industrial pro-
ducer prices rose by almost 30 percent while the cost of living rose less



- 4 -
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy leaves, for institutional
reasons, little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through
prices and income policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe led to a sharp decline in
exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers' remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit, and the country recorded a current account deficit in
excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million in
1973. In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been gradually
tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods and
some capital and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank raised
the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing
the dinar by about 7 percent against the currencies of Yugoslavia's major
trading partners. The large current account deficit led to some loss of
foreign exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$438 million in
1974 (compared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition, net for-
eign borrowing, which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to
around US$650 million in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers
and credits from financial institutions continued to be the major sources
of foreign capital. Long-term funds related to financing of development are
being made available mainly by the IBRD and some bilateral sources (particu-
larly the US Export-Import Bank and Federal Republic of Germany). Yugoslavia
has also been one of the beneficiaries of the IMF's Special Oil Facility.
Yugoslavia's medium- and long-term external debt outstanding as of December 31,
1975 is estimated at US$5,800 million (disbursed only). Debt service payments
amounted to about 16.5 percent of foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances) in 1974 and 17.7 in 1975.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, due
mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnating
exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and stagnating consumption;
economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus
during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974 and ex-
tended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year; the rate
of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent for 1974
to 11 percent during 1975, and the index of real personal receipts slightly
declined for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favor-
able impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely
affected by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil
producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to
expand rapidly in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp



-5-
decline in exports to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity
exports declined by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and re-
ceipts from tourism have increased marginally. However, a larger contraction
of imports and an improvement in the terms of trade led to a slight decline
in the current account deficit to $1,032 million.
Estimates for 1976 and Prospects for 1977
12.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. On both counts, these objectives are successfully being
met. Due to the reduction of imports--with sizeable stocks of imported inter-
mediate goods being gradually depleted--and to a lesser extent the increase of
exports, a small current account surplus of US$150 million is estimated for
the year as a whole. The rate of inflation declined further, with the cumula-
tive index of industrial producer prices dropping to 7 percent. However,
the measures and policies leading to this improvement simultaneously halted
economic growth during the first half of 1976. By the middle of the year,
industrial production started to expand again, mainly as a result of an
expansion of investment and exports, and an increase of money supply during
the first part of the year. This upsurge, in conjunction with the favorable
crop of 1976, is expected to lead to a real increase of GDP by about 4 percent
for the year as a whole. For 1977, Yugoslav authorities expect the growth
rate to rise to 5.5 percent, accompanied, however, by a reappearance of a
moderate current account deficit and a moderate resurgence of the rate of
inflation. Employment growth, estimated at 3 to 3.5 percent for 1976 is
expected to continue at about the same rate through 1977.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
13.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as rapid
inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of
development objectives. In the light of the recent shift of relative prices
in favor of raw materials, more emphasis will be given to the development of
Yugoslavia's own natural resources. In this connection, the development of
the energy sector is given the highest priority. It focuses on electric
power, where the generating capacity is falling critically short of the
rapidly rising power requirements of the expanding economy. The development
of the power sector will be based primarily on the largely unutilized hydro-
power potential and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority
activities are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy
(notably lead, zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically
advanced production equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining,
agriculture and food processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose
works, and housing and basic construction material.
14.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad



-6-
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have a crucial role.
15.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is pro-
posed, comparing with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and an expected realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment,
the average planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual
increments exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing
margins. This would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objec-
tives: the reduction of the number of temporary migrants abroad, and an
increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social sector. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material,
semi-finished products and consumer goods on the import side, and an increased
share for agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side.
Workers' remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising
tourism receipts are expected to compensate for the expected declining impor-
tance of workers' remittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms for economic invest-
ment and of budgetary grants for social development will be continued and
probably increased as a proportion of total GDP.  Since most of the natural
resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in the LDRs,
these regions will also benefit from the increased emphasis on the develop-
ment of power and basic industries which will be financed largely through
direct financial contributions from the consuming regions.
17.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies (Communal, Republican and Provincial, and
Federal) of the socio-political communities. Subsequently, the planning
process starts at the bottom with individual enterprises and Communities of
Interest setting out expectations and targets. The planning process then
proceeds through successive and partially overlapping stages of horizontal
adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily at eliminating gross
duplications), vertical adjustments between closely interdependent sectors and
branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of magnitudes of production,
conceptually within an input/output framework), and regional adjustments
between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal and vertical con-
solidation). The socio-political communities participate in this process by



-7-
ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and constraints, and by
resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct participants. The
evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their totality constitute
the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the form of "social
contracts" or "self-management agreements" which are legally binding for the
whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occur-
ring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan differs from the
previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments for implemen-
tation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Communities, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have risen in 1976 (around 18 percent), but it is
expected to decline slightly in the subsequent years. Taking into account
Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the past to control
balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective growth of production
and structural improvement of the balance of trade, Yugoslavia remains credit-
worthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.       The Bank has made 43 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,473
million. Of this amount, approximately 46 percent (US$676.4 million) has
been for 15 loans for the transportation sector--8 for highways totalling
US$276.0 million, 4 for railways totalling US$248.0 million, US$59.4 million
for a natural gas pipeline, US$49.0 million for an oil pipeline, and US$44.0
million for a port project. Bank lending has generally concentrated on
infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation loans, power
(three loans totalling US$135.0 million), telecommunications (one loan for
US$40.0 million), US$51.0 million for two water supply and sewerage projects
and five multipurpose projects totalling US$177.0 million which included
substantial agricultural components for irrigation and agricultural credit.
1/   Part II of this report is substantially identical to that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Eighth Highway Project
(Report No. P-1967a-YU) dated March 3, 1977.



-8-
Four loans totalling US$131.0 million have been made for agriculture and agro-
industries. Ten loans have also been made for industry and two for tourism.
The first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In
addition, IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$130.0 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC investments as of April 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
20.       The basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues
to be dictated by the following interrelated, yet distinct objectives:
(a)  support of the Yugoslav efforts to accelerate development in
the Less Developed Regions (LDRs);
(b) promotion of agricultural development in both the private and
social sectors by providing basic infrastructure and credit;
(c) encouragement of structural reforms in the major sectors
through improved coordination, institution-building and
technical assistance;
(d) help in the identifying and financing of gaps in basic
infrastructure--particularly transport and energy; and
(e) alleviation of critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
These objectives have guided Bank lending in previous years. It is obvious
that each Bank operation cannot address all these objectives which are not
always fully compatible. There has, however, been an evolving change in the
relative weights of these objectives with particular emphasis being directed
towards the support for the lesser developed regions and the agricultural
sector.
21.       The Bank's emphasis on aiding the accelerated development of the LDRs
is fully in accord with the Federal Government's wishes and avowed policy to
reverse the widening gap between the richest and the poorest regions (Slovenia
and Kosovo, respectively). Over the past two years, more than two-thirds of
our lending has been to the lesser developed regions, and we hope to maintain
a comparable pattern of distribution over the medium-term, though there will
undoubtedly be year to year fluctuations. A loan of US$54.0 million (Loan No.
1360-YU) for the Metohija Multipurpose Project in Kosovo was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 11, 1977. Loans of US$24.0 and US$26.0 million
for agriculture and agro-industries projects in Macedonia and Montenegro were
approved by the Board in February, and a loan of US$56.0 million for an Eighth
Highway Project, primarily designed to benefit the economic development and
integration of lesser developed regions, was approved March 15, 1977. Over
the next two years, operations envisaged for LDRs include a second loan for



-9-
agricultural credit, a third loan for industrial credit, and three loans for
irrigation, water supply and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and
agriculture development. Highway and railway projects, as well as this
proposed power transmission project, during the same period will both assist
the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy sectors.
IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities to en-
courage joint ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing
expertise as well as long-term capital.
22.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, should enable the Bank to
achieve a high level of participation in the development of these regions.
23.       The Bank supported and assisted in the formulation of the 1973
"Green Plan" which, in addition to providing a comprehensive framework for
promoting agricultural development, recognized and encouraged the role of the
private, low-income sector which holds almost 85 percent of the cultivated
land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population. It is now generally
appreciated that the private farm sector can--given sufficient support in
terms of extension services, credit for inputs and basic infrastructural
facilities--generate significant increases in production. The loans for the
Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose
Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries
Projects (Loans Nos. 894-YU and 1371-YU) in Macedonia and the Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan No. 1129-YU) have given special attention to the needs
of the private farm sector. The forthcoming projects for irrigation and
agricultural credit will support agriculture development in general and in
particular the private sector.
24.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, compounds the inherent complexities of coherent
sector planning which are evident in any economy. This is of particular
relevance to the transport and energy sectors. The Bank's significant in-
volvement in these sectors, both in terms of money and technical assistance,
has helped to highlight the critical need for, and to evolve mechanisms to
further countrywide coordination of, sectoral investment programs and policies.
The limited, yet discernible progress made has been supported by our lending
for electric power transmission, railways and highways. Our continuing in-
volvement in the transport and power sectors, though the funds we can make
available are limited, will, we hope, have further beneficial impact on
fostering coordination. For instance, a recently approved eighth highway
project (Loan No. 1377-YU) provides for studies of road-user charges and rail-
way costs which the Government and ourselves believe essential for fostering
inter-modal coordination and devising a policy framework for the transport
sector and this proposed project, an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will enable
the transfer of power throughout the country and thereby foster power exchange
coordination among all republics/provinces.



- 10 -
25.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to attain its growth targets. While the Yugoslavs are
making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western financial
markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there is
presently no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank,
therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the fore-
seeable future. In our financing of infrastructure projects, we propose to
devote particular attention to those which have clear possibilities of attract-
ing co-financing and where our participation, albeit limited, is likely to
induce the entry of financing partners.
26.       The level of Bank lending has remained constant, averaging about
US$200 million annually during the period FY74-76. Although this represents
only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to
about one-fifth of its total public debt outstanding and disbursed. The
outstanding debt to the Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from
its current level of less than 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt.
Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in
1974 and is projected to increase to about 6 percent in 1980.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRIC POWER SUB-SECTOR
27.       Yugoslavia's new Five Year Plan which addresses the need for the
restructuring of the economy (see paragraphs 13 and 14), places the highest
priority on the development of the energy sector. Within the sector, major
emphasis is on the electric power sub-sector. The basic tenets of the coun-
try's energy policy may be summarized as maximum economic development of
domestic natural resources (particularly coal) and its integration in the
development of the power sector; the provision of secure long-term supplies
of petroleum and natural gas and the maximization of the "value" of petro-
leum; and the improvement of the efficiency of energy utilization.
28.       The organization of both the energy sector and electric power sub-
sector is complex, reflecting at the same time the overall decentralization
of economic management in Yugoslavia and the consequent fragmentation of
responsibilities among many organizations. This complexity has been further
increased in the electric power sub-sector (comprising over 200 basic organi-
zations), by recent developments in defining new methods of coordination in
planning and implementation. These developments are discussed below and in
large part reflect the findings of both an energy sector mission which visited
Yugoslavia in late 1975 and the appraisal mission for the proposed project.
The Energy Sector
29.       Since 1966, the demand for primary energy has been growing at an
average annual rate of 8 percent. Hydro-carbons showed the highest growth
rates (oil, 16 percent per annum and gas, 18 percent per annum) because of



- 11 -
both their relative cheapness (over most of the period) and ease of usage.
Yugoslavia's oil imports increased from 10 percent of its total energy
requirements in 1966 to 32 percent in 1974. Electricity, both hydro-power
and thermal power, has also experienced accelerated rates of growth averaging
about 11 percent per annum.
30.       Energy Resources.  Yugoslavia has substantial primary energy re-
sources consisting of low grade coal, lignite deposits, hydro-power potential,
and some hydro-carbons. These resources are concentrated in the Republics
of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo.
Yugoslavia's coal reserves (approximately 22 billion tons of proven reserves)
are equivalent to several hundred years' supply at present consumption rates
(35-40 million tons per annum). Although coal production accelerated during
the past few years because of increased oil prices, it is of inferior quality
with limited export potential and its main value to the economy lies primarily
in the generation of electricity. Hydro-power potential is estimated to be
equal to 65 TWh/a of which some 23 TWh/a has been developed (4.7 GW). A
further 7 TWh/a (2.8 GW) is under construction or planned. Of the rem4ining
35 TWh/a hydro-power potential, about a third is unsuitable for future devel-
opment because of its location near densely populated valleys or in small
catchment areas.
31.       Yugoslavia has proven oil reserves of about 50 million tons and
produced about 3.5 million tons in 1974, which represented about one-third of
its 10 million ton annual demand (the balance being met by imports). With the
annual demand for oil expected to rise to 18.5 million tons by 1980 and local
production of oil to increase to 4.6 million tons, its dependence on imports
would, by then, have increased to 75 percent of its oil needs. Yugoslavia has
proven gas reserves of about 47 billion m3 and produced about 1.4 billion m3
in 1974, sufficient to meet its total demand which, however, is suppressed due
to transport limitations which are largely being overcome by the construction
of a Bank financed gas pipeline project (see paragraph 47). With gas usage
expected to rise to 6 billion m3 by 1980, Yugoslavia plans to increase its
production to about 3 billion m3 and import the balance. Estimates of assured
uranium reserves (9,000 - 20,000 tons) are adequate to fuel 1,500 - 3,300 MW
of generating capacity for 30 years. Currently, the first uranium mine is
being developed to provide fuel for the nuclear station (630 MW) under con-
struction at Krsko in Slovenia.
32.       Institutional Setting.  In keeping with the overall decentralization
of economic management, the role of the Federal Government in the planning and
operation of the sector is increasingly circumscribed. Its main interventions
in the sector are limited to control of prices of fuels and electricity and
to formulation of broad guidelines for the energy policy of the country. The
Federal Committee on Energy and Industry, which is in charge of overall policy
formulation and coordination, does not prepare detailed plans as to how such
energy policy should be implemented. This is left to the initiative of the
republics and individual enterprises. The individual enterprises in the
republics and autonomous provinces are pivotal in that it is they who for-
mulate and implement development plans. The Chambers of Economy, non-
governmental institutions constituting all economic enterprises, play a



- 12 -
coordinating and consultative role and "Communities of Interest", which are
groupings of producers and users, play a regulatory role in sectors such as
the power sector where market forces do not function.
33.       Future Growth and Constraints.  The economic plan for 1976-80 fore-
casts the primary energy requirements to grow at about 9 percent per annum,
which in comparison to past trends is rather high, but the main objectives
of the Yugoslav energy policies appear reasonable. However, their successful
achievement within the Yugoslav decentralized economic decision-making system,
depends on strengthening the overall framework for ensuring coordination with-
in and between the energy sub-sectors and between the energy sector and other
sectors of the economy. The new procedures of self-management planning (see
paragraph 17) have been designed to bring about more such coordination.
Electric Power Sub-sector
34.       Consumption.  Currently, electricity accounts for about 14 percent
of Yugoslavia's total energy demand (compared to about 11 percent in 1966).
The average annual production and consumption of electricity in Yugoslavia
increased by 12.5 percent between 1955 and 1975. However, at the level of
the republics, the growth rate of consumption of electricity experienced wide
variations. For example, although national average per capita consumption
quadrupled between 1960 and 1975 (from 405 kWh to 1,652 kWh), the disparities
between regions are still considerable: 900 kWh in Kosovo compared to 3,340
kWh in Slovenia. This primarily reflects the differences in the economic
development of the regions. The proportion of the population having access
to electricity has increased substantially (from 55 percent in 1960 to 94
percent in 1975) and this together with rising standards of living are re-
flected in the changing market shares of the customer classes; the share of
industry dropped from 72 percent in 1955 to 59 percent in 1975, while the
share of households increased from 17 percent in 1955 to 28 percent in 1975.
35.       Generation.  In 1975, installed capacity and production were
approximately 9 GW and 40 TWh, respectively, and the proportions of electri-
city generated hydraulically and thermally are about equal. In the future,
thermal generation utilizing the country's vast coal resources is expected
to predominate. By the completion of the proposed project, that is by the end
of 1982, about 7.5 GW of thermal plant (1975: 3.7 GW), and 2.8 GW of hydro-
plant (1975: 4.7 GW) would be added. Wide disparities in the total capacity
added since 1955 exist among republics ranging from 43 percent installed in
Serbia to 3 percent in Montenegro. These disparities essentially reflect the
different energy resource endowments of the regions.
36.       Forecast energy contributions (exports to other republics) or
deficits (imports from other republics) in the interconnected transmission
pool indicate the dependence of most republics on the two republics most
richly endowed with primary energy resources, namely, Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Serbia (including the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo). Sales
in the interconnected system are assumed to grow at 11.5 percent in 1977, and
12 percent in 1978, with a gradual decline to an 8 percent rate of growth by
1982. The average growth rate would be 10 percent, i.e. equal to the average



- 13 -
1971-76 growth rate, and the estimated 1982 sales (70.3 TWh) would be double
those in 1975 (35 TWh). Maximum demand is expected to grow at an average rate
of 11 percent per annum between 1976 and 1982.
37.       Since 1973 Yugoslavia's power deficits have been in the order of 0.7
to 1.1 TWh/a (some 2 to 3.5 percent of overall power requirements). In 1975,
power imports met about 3 percent of Yugoslavia's total electricity require-
ments. Power exchanges with neighboring countries (12 connections of which
one has a 380-kV capacity) have been small due to the limited transport capa-
cities and dispatch constraints. The forecast of capacities and energy
balances for the next five years shows that national energy requirements could
be met throughout the period provided that water availability is about average.
This latter proviso is critical given the type of hydro-thermal mix that
Yugoslavia has, where low winter water flows reduce hydro capacity by some
20 to 40 percent. The main problem, therefore, is expected to be the sys-
tem's ability to meet peak demands rather than energy requirements.
38.       Transmission.  The transmission system has expanded and is expected
to expand in parallel with generating capacity, from about 2,900 km (110-kV
only) in 1955 and 15,772 km (110-kV, 210-kV, 380-kV) in 1975 to about 23,872
km (110-kV, 220-kV, 380-kV) in 1982. This national network's reliability,
stability and voltage conditions are not yet completely satisfactory because
several essential lines below a voltage level of 380-kV are rapidly reaching
their rated capacity. In addition, the republics' dispatch facilities are
frequently inadequate for the operation of the networks; this is particularly
true when emergency conditions prevail. Matters pertaining to interrepublic
exchanges of energy, such as schedules, requests for assistance and changes
in switching conditions, are provided by direct agreements among the power
entities.
39.       Organization.  As in the case of the rest of the energy sector
decentralization has fragmented the sub-sector into autonomous organizations.
This caused a retardation in the construction of new generating facilities in
the late 1960's and early 1970's and a deterioration in the overall reliability
of the system. The sub-sector has been in the process of reorganization since
1970, with the object of improving coordination. Legal changes permitting
this reorganization were formalized in the 1974 Constitution. As a result,
construction of electric plant has accelerated again.
40.       The organization of the power industry follows the Yugoslav prin-
ciple of workers' self-management. The basic decision-making units are
called "Basic Organizations of Associated Labor" (BOAL). In principle,
these are the smallest technically identifiable units that can function
independently. A single power plant is typically operated by a BOAL. BOALs
can be integrated into "Work Organizations of Associated Labor" (WOAL),
through revocable self-management agreements and may include BOALs concerned
with generating plants as well as transmission, research and development and
other supporting services. Distribution entities are organized separately but
along similar lines. The generation and transmission WOALs in each republic
have recently organized themselves into single organizations referred to as
"Composite Organizations of Associated Labor" (COAL) which are the apex



- 14 -
organizations in the sector (see chart following Annex III which depicts a
typical republic organizational set-up).
41.       Each organization (whether BOAL, WOAL or COAL) has its own workers'
council, elected by its members in accordance with a self-management agree-
ment, which acts as the top policy-making body in much the same way as the
board of directors of a corporation in a non-socialist country. The workers'
council approves major investment plans, decides on the disposition of income
and appoints the general manager, who is the chief executive officer of the
enterprise.
42.       All the existing 32 generation and transmission organizations (WOALs
and COALs) are required by law to be members of the national Union of Yugoslav
Power Industry (JUGEL). In a similar manner, all 20 distribution organizations
have their own association, but 16 of these organizations have voluntarily
joined JUGEL. In addition, a combination of 9 power institutes and energy
consulting firms are voluntary members of JUGEL. While JUGEL coordinates the
major aspects of power generation and transmission in the country, it has no
executive power over its member organizations. The power organizations
and their customers form the power sector's "Communities of Interest" which
coordinate sectoral activities with the distribution organization at the
local level and with the generation and transmission COALs at the level of
the republic. They are responsible for determining long-term development
programs and their financing including deciding on the consumers' financial
contributions to system expansion and the level and structure of the tariffs.
The Communities are governed by an assembly in which the power organizations
and the consumers have equal representation. If the Communities fail to
achieve an agreement on matters within their purview, matters are turned
over to the republican assembly for final resolution. The Communities of
Interest are the newest organizational form emanating from the new Constitu-
tion and a number of them are still in the formative stage.
43.       Financing Electric Power Development.  Until 1962 the Federal Gov-
ernment provided the bulk of electric power development funds through long-
term, low-interest loans. Since then the enterprises and consumers, and
to a lesser extent the republics and local governments, have provided an
increasing share of investment funds for new plant construction. After
January 1, 1971, Federal funds for power investments were completely abolished
and the power enterprises which had hitherto maintained low tariff rates and
achieved limited internal cash generation were unable to finance expansion
when low cost long-term credits were no longer available. Consequently, con-
struction of new power plants lagged. Since the early 1970's, tariff rates
have been increasing and this situation has been steadily improving. The most
recent increase in bulk (and retail) tariffs was introduced in the republics
between March and August 1976. At the moment their level is approximately
180 percent above their corresponding 1970 level. This compares with an
increase in the cost-of-living index of about 160 percent relative to 1970.
Enterprises are expected to generate funds from their own resources equivalent
to at least 30 percent of the funds required for new investment. The balance
of needed financing is expected to come from foreign loans (development
assistance and commercial credits), local bank loans and special resources
raised by republic and local governments.



- 15 -
44.       The present bulk supply tariff structure, which applies throughout
the country, was introduced in 1965. Maximum permitted percentage increases,
reached through agreements among the republics, are promulgated by the
Federal Government. Any republic may institute reduced rates through its
communities of interest but in practice the maximum rates are usually sought.
The tariff structure is cost-based in philosophy, but because rate increases
have been across the board there are indications that the structure and rates
do not reflect the present pattern of consumer demand and costs of supply.
The republics also instituted various measures for collecting supplementary
funds for their investment in system expansion. These measures are in the
form of either repayable loans (e.g. contributions from industry, BOALs and
WOALs) or non-repayable levies (e.g. connection charges, metering charges and
special surcharges). Although such contributions are not intended as permanent
features, but as temporary expedients to provide funds during the present
investment-intensive period, they are expected to continue for many years
in view of Yugoslavia's large investment plans for power, unless the tariff
structure and rates were to be revised to fully reflect costs of supply and
financial requirements.
45.       Future Development:  Policies and Problems.  Electric power is a
high priority sub-sector in the 1976-80 national development plan. Its
sectoral objective is to meet Yugoslavia's power requirements, to the extent
possible, from indigenous resources through coordinated development and
financing. The cost of the 1976-82 development program for generation and
transmission would be about US$12.2 billion or an average annual expenditure
of approximately US$1.7 billion. The program appears ambitious and, although
investments in power have been stepped up considerably (about US$600 million
in 1975 and about double this amount in 1976), financial constraints may
cause some delays. The extent, and effect, of these constraints cannot be
estimated with any degree of certainty.
46.       Coordination in the power sub-sector has in the past been weak.
It has been characterized by the absence of overall policy guidelines for
the production and use of resources and linkages with other energy sub-sectors.
In the power sub-sector, each group of enterprises in each region prepares
its own development plans. The objective of the power development plan
at the level of the individual region is to maintain a balance of capacities
and energies within its boundaries. This includes capacity and energy from
plants that are shared (through joint financing) and might be located in
another republic. Such regional plans are consolidated by JUGEL to form
the national development program. JUGEL, however, has no authority to take
the initiative to independently determine that the collection of projects
identified by the regions constitute an optimum development plan from the
national point of view. At the suggestion of the Bank, JUGEL was authorized
by its members (November 1976) to contract consultants to undertake a least-
cost development study to be completed within 18 months. The study is based
on draft terms of reference provided by the Bank (see paragraphs 66 and 67).
Bank Involvement in the Sector
47.       The Bank's main involvement in the field of energy thus far has
been the three loans made to the power sector, where the emphasis has been



- 16 -
most recently on extending the national transmission grid under the first
Power Transmission Project (Loan No. 836-YU of June 23, 1972). The Bank
has also made one loan in the oil sub-sector, for the Naftovod Oil Pipeline
Project (Loan No. 1173-YU of November 19, 1975), which provides for the
facilities to transmit oil from an Adriatic port of entry to Yugoslavia's
five inland refineries and those of her neighbors. In addition, the Bank
has made two loans for natural gas pipelines, one for the Naftagas Project
(Loan No. 916-YU of June 25, 1973), which provides for the facilities to
transmit natural gas from Vojvodina, and imported USSR gas, to industrial
consumers in Vojvodina and Serbia, and the other to both Naftagas and Sarajevo
Gas Enterprise for the Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project (Loan No. 1264-
YU of June 8, 1976), which extends the natural gas pipeline to the city of
Sarajevo. Annex II contains a brief summary of the status of these projects
which are in execution. A Bank energy sector mission visited Yugoslavia in
late 1975, discussed with the Yugoslav authorities its draft report on the
development of the energy sector in late 1976 and the final report is being
currently reviewed with the Yugoslavs.
48.       Bank's Experience in Lending for Power.  The Bank has made three
loans for power in Yugoslavia. The first (Loan No. 277-YU of February 23,
1961) and second (Loan No. 318-YU of July 11, 1962) loans, each for US$30
million, were made, respectively for the 266-MW Senj hydro plant and 360-
MW Bajina Basta hydro plant both of which were completed in 1969 and are
operating satisfactorily. The third loan (Loan No. 836-YU) of US$75 million
was made in 1972 for the first phase of the 380-kV transmission system com-
prising some 3,000 km of lines and 7,700 MVA of substation capacity; this
project is nearing completion. A Bank loan of US$70 million for the 450-MW
Buk Bijela hydro power station in Bosnia-Herzegovina was terminated for
failure to become effective after the Federal Government advised the Bank
that ratification of the Guarantee Agreement was not possible until an issue
that had arisen subsequent to appraisal and approval by the Executive Directors
as to the use of Drina Basin waters (where the plant was to be located) had
been studied and resolved.
49.       With regard to the Bank's first power transmission project (Loan No.
836-YU) in 1972, construction is progressing more slowly than anticipated, but
is expected to be completed by December 1977, about a year later than appraisal
estimates. The physical execution of the project has been satisfactory. The
final cost of the project is expected to be approximately US$425 million as
compared to the appraisal estimate of US$225 million; the large difference
is due to sharp increases in both equipment prices and labor costs during the
construction period which spanned the sharp inflationary spiral of the mid-
1970's. These cost overruns are being covered through loans secured from the
Federal Republic of Germany, some local loans and the borrowers' internal
funds. The institutional objectives of the loan, however, have not been fully
attained. Despite the agreement on comprehensive coordination between JUGEL
and the republics, JUGEL has not been able to perform all of its functions.
This is evidenced by the fact that major interrelated project components are
not expected to be simultaneously completed, reporting is lagging, and the
management consultants were engaged approximately 3 years behind schedule and
their study is now expected to be completed in mid-1978. This is in part



- 17 -
attributable to JUGEL's lack of authority to act on behalf of the borrowers
and its lack of initiative in acquiring additional expert staff required for
the performance of its coordinating duties. The proposed project will attempt
to redress some of these deficiencies by strengthening JUGEL's role and its
staff (see paragraphs 61-65).
50.       In summary, the main difficulties encountered in Yugoslavia's power
sub-sector have been institutional. Following the constitutional changes of
1974, some measure of integration is being reintroduced principally at the
republican level. The Bank's consistent encouragement of more effective co-
ordination in the power sub-sector may have assisted in the movement towards
integration. The proposed second loan for power transmission will seek to
continue the impetus for strengthening coordination in system planning, fi-
nancing and operation of the sub-sector, both at the republican and federal
levels.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       In April, 1976, the Federal Government of Yugoslavia, on behalf of
the power organizations responsible for generation and transmission throughout
the country, requested Bank financing for the further expansion and development
of the national, interconnected transmission network the first phase of which
was supported by a Bank loan in 1972 (Loan No.836-YU). The feasibility studies
and design for this second phase project were prepared, as were the studies
for the first project, by the Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL)
in consultation with its constituent power generation and transmission enter-
prises and with the assistance of several Yugoslav consulting firms. An
appraisal mission visited Yugoslavia in September and October 1976. Negotia-
tions were held in April 1977 in Washington. The Yugoslav delegation included
representatives of the six borrowers and was led by Mr. Miodrag Stojiljkovic,
Assistant Federal Secretary for Finance, and Mr. Lazar Ljubisa, General
Manager of JUGEL.
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The project is described in detail in the report "Appraisal of the
Second Power Transmission Project: Report No. 1472b-YU, dated June 13, 1977",
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
53.       The general objectives of the project are a continuation of those
for the first Power Transmission Project (first project), that is:
(a) to strengthen sector coordination, particularly through
follow-up of the ongoing studies for the establishment
of procedures for the efficient operation and management
of the 380-kV transmission system and generating facilities;
(b) to strengthen the role of JUGEL in the sector as coordinator
and dispatch agency;



- 18 -
(c) to encourage better economic and financial planning and the
use of improved forecasting and budgeting procedures by the
power entities; and
(d) to assist Yugoslavia in obtaining most of the needed external
finance for the project from other sources.
54.       Historically, the power entities in each republic have balanced the
exchange of power with the other republics to ensure their annual supply of
electricity. The 380-kV system coupled with adequate dispatch facilities is
designed to allow for greater reliability and flexibility in supplying power
throughout the country. The second phase (1977-82) of the 380-kV system is
an extension and refinement of the basic power grid established under the
first phase and will specifically serve to meet the demands in areas where
the existing 220-kY and 110-kV systems are rapidly approaching their rated
capacity and link-up a number of larger cities and rapidly expanding indus-
trial areas to the 380-kV network.  It will also further improve the overall
system reliability (see Map).
55.       The project, covering this second phase, would comprise the con-
struction of about 1,000 km of single circuit 380-kV transmission lines, 16
new sub-stations and the extension of 8 existing sub-stations with a total
transformer capacity of about 10,000 MVA, 3 switching stations, and 9 dis-
patch centers (1 federal, 6 republican, and 1 for each of the two autonomous
provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo). The proposed loan would also finance
consulting services for the design of dispatch facilities and supplementary
studies of management, tariffs, and system development.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
56.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$681 million (excluding
interest during construction) which represents about 6 percent of Yugoslavia's
total 1976-82 development program for generation and transmission. The esti-
mate includes duties and taxes (about 5 percent of project costs) and an
average allowance for physical contingencies of about five percent based on
the execution experience of the first power transmission project. Average
price contingencies or estimated price increases of about 8 percent and 11
percent per annum to meet expected inflation in foreign and local costs,
respectively, during the project implementation period, have been included
in the project costs. The foreign exchange costs (excluding interest during
construction) are estimated at US$274 million. Details of the cost estimates
are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
57.       The proposed Bank loan of US$80 million, representing about 12
percent of the total cost of the project or about 30 percent of the total
estimated foreign exchange cost (excluding interest during construction),
would finance part of the supply of seven major items: transformers, circuit
breakers, isolator switches, metering transformers, lightning arrestors, shunt
reactors, and metering and protection equipment. The allocation of the loan
among the six borrowers would be prorated to the cost of the transmission
facilities within each republic, with the less developed regions receiving
about 45 percent of the loan.



- 19 -
58.       The European Investment Bank (EIB) has also appraised this project
and expects to commit a loan of about US$30 million this year for financing
equipment and materials. The balance of the equipment would be financed by
suppliers' credits funded or guaranteed by national export credit agencies
and private commercial institutions. JUGEL with the assistance of the Federal
Government has solicited and received for registration about 100 letters of
intent for supply and financing from Australian, Canadian, Eastern European,
Japanese, US, Western European and Yugoslav firms. These offers cover all the
non-Bank financed equipment suitable for international bidding (about 45 per-
cent of the estimated foreign exchange costs). At least 11 firms and as many
as 28 firms have registered their interest for every single item. With this
level of response, JUGEL is confident that the equipment contracts estimated
at about US$130 million can be financed competitively. The terms of these
credits vary somewhat as between supplying countries but on the average
they provide credit to cover 80 to 85 percent of the value of the equipment,
with repayment varying from 5 to 10 years and interest rates ranging from
6-1/2 percent to 9-1/2 percent. The balance of the foreign exchange costs
would have to be funded from other foreign and domestic sources and are, with
the exception of the down payments on the suppliers' credits, essentially
indirect foreign costs associated with civil works (erection costs and asso-
ciated contingencies). The local costs would be financed by internally
generated funds (representing 37 percent of total project costs) and local
loans.
59.       Specific arrangements for utilizing the bulk of this financing were
discussed and agreed upon with the Bank during negotiations. The finalization
of the external financing arrangements, the bulk of which is tied to actual
award of contracts, would be dictated by the implementation schedule of the
project. The Bank received assurances that these arrangements and any addi-
tional financing required from foreign sources would be completed in a timely
manner, and on conditions satisfactory to the Bank; namely, it has been agreed
that, except for the financing of the dispatch facilities for which no contracts
are likely to be signed before the end of 1978, the borrowers will provide to
the Bank by June 30, 1978, confirmation that the EIB loan has been concluded
and that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been made for making
available to the executing organizations the remaining suppliers' credits and
foreign commercial loans required for completing the individual parts of the
Project. The Bank would have the option of withholding further disbursements
from the loan account in the event that the above undertaking is not met.
Financing arrangements for the dispatch facilities would be completed before
June 30, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Recitals K, L, and M; Sections 2.02 and 6.01
(n)). In this respect, it should be noted that Yugoslavia's own investment
regulations, which were agreed to by all the republics and autonomous provinces
and promulgated in 1975 as part of Yugoslavia's economic stabilization policy
to control inflation, require that all the financing for any large-scale in-
vestment be secured before the executing enterprise is permitted to undertake
the investment. Although all appropriate commitments have been made, the
finalization and signing of the local financing arrangements, as well as the
local bank guarantees to cover any cost overruns, would be a condition of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Recital J and Section 7.01(a)).



- 20 -
Institutional Arrangements
60.       The complexity of the institutional set-up in the electric power
sub-sector is necessarily reflected in the lending procedures for this national
project which involves 6 republics and 18 power organizations, particularly in
regard to project implementation, operation and financial performance criteria
described in the paragraphs that follow. Three of the six borrowers under the
proposed loan would be the apex or composite organizations (Composite Organiza-
tions of Associated Labor-COALs) in each republic responsible for generation
and transmission (see paragraph 40). In Serbia the borrower would be the work
organization (WOAL) that conducts and operates all transmission facilities in
the republic and in the autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina since the
Serbian composite organization, of which the borrower is a member, does not
operate in these autonomous provinces. In Macedonia and Montenegro, the
two respective transmission WOALs would likewise be the borrowers. The two
composite organizations in these republics do not have the authority to borrow
(the number of organizations associated within each COAL is small and the
need for centralized borrowing is not yet apparent); this authority being
restricted to the respective transmission WOALs who would be responsible for
the physical execution of the project. However, the composite organizations
in Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia which have the responsibility for finan-
cial planning, would undertake to fulfill the financial covenant insofar as it
applies to their republics (see paragraph 71). A single loan agreement, simi-
lar to the one for Loan No. 836-YU, would be signed with the six borrowers,
the three composite organizations in Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, and the
coordinating agency, JUGEL. As under the first project, JUGEL would coordinate
the execution of the project and be responsible, without assuming any financial
obligations, for all actions to be taken for withdrawal of loan proceeds and
repayment of the loan. There would be 18 executing enterprises, including
JUGEL, located in the various republics, who would be responsible for the
construction of the facilities. A project agreement between the Bank and
8 of the executing enterprises who are not signatories to the Loan Agreement
(although they are constituent members of those that are) would define their
responsibilities for implementation.
Project Implementation
61.       As it did under the first project, JUGEL and the participating
republican organizations would execute the proposed project in a coordinated
fashion under agreed guidelines. Amendments to improve these guidelines were
discussed during negotiations and final guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be signed by the participating organizations as a condition of effec-
tiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(c) and Schedule 7). These guidelines
would, inter alia, provide that JUGEL would be again designated as coordinator
of the project responsible for engineering, procurement, overall supervision
of construction, studies, and relations with the Bank. A coordinating committee
chaired by JUGEL (composed of representatives from the participating executing
enterprises and the borrowers) would be responsible for reaching agreement on
all aspects of execution. Supervision of construction would be the responsi-
bility of each of the executing agencies in accordance with common standards



- 21
(including scheduling) drawn up by JUGEL and approved by the coordinating
committee. The executing enterprises in the project, most of whom partici-
pated in the first project, are capable of constructing and operating their
facilities as a result of the accumulated experience gained in the process
of expanding their respective systems.
62.       Among the more important amendments to the coordination guidelines
designed to overcome some of the problems experienced under the first project
(see paragraph 49), would be the establishment of a permanent "Project Unit"
within JUGEL, under the jurisdiction of its general manager, responsible for
all day-to-day business with the various organizations and responsible for all
aspects of the first and second projects. JUGEL has almost completed formation
of the Project Unit by recruiting most of the staff and formal establishment
of the Unit, organized and fully staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
and guided by the recommendations of the management consultants engaged under
Loan 836-YU, would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.07 and 7.01 (c)). In addition, a project coordinator would be appointed for
each republic (most likely the technical representative on JUGEL's coordinating
committee). The new guidelines would also provide that JUGEL would revise
critical path information regularly in order to initiate through newly created
republic project coordinators the necessary actions by the executing enter-
prises. JUGEL currently has a total staff of 154, has five divisions of which
three are under a director (Engineering and Power, Economic and Finance, and
Legal and Administration) and two report directly to the general manager
(Services and Dispatch). Under Loan No. 836-YU JUGEL undertook to engage
management consultants for a study of operating procedures for the first
project and preparation of recommendations for improvements. The management
consultants were engaged about three years late because the borrowers could
not reach consensus on the terms of reference, the amount of services and
responsibilities of local sub-contracting consultants and the selection of
the main foreign consultant responsible for the study. The full study is now
expected to be completed by mid-1978, although interim reports dealing with
specific matters, such as dispatching and staffing, will be available before
that date. In addition, JUGEL has agreed to review with the Bank as soon as
possible, and not later than the completion of the ongoing management study,
the consultant's recommendations for JUGEL's organization and staffing and
agreed changes would be implemented within six months (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(e)).
63.       Overall design standards are established by a commission in charge
of dispatch facilities composed of JUGEL's technical staff and republican
enterprises' experts. The COALs in each republic with some assistance from
foreign consultants prepared the plans for their respective dispatch facili-
ties, and the final designs are reviewed by the commission. In addition, con-
sultants would be engaged by JUGEL for the preparation of comprehensive bid
documents (see paragraph 77). As under the first project, most of the con-
struction, tower erection and installation work, is expected to be executed by
Yugoslav contractors and the executing enterprises themselves. Improvement
in the scheduling of works is required, since under the first project the
objective of completing related facilities in the various regions concurrently



- 22 -
has not always been met. An agreement has now been reached among the execut-
ing enterprises on a construction schedule designed to facilitate concurrent
completion of related components. Completion delays under the first project
were in part due to late acquisition of right-of-way for lines. The executing
enterprises have therefore agreed to implement actions for full right-of-way
acquisition for the project by December 31, 1978, at the latest (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05 and Project Agreement, Section 2.07). The transmission lines and
substations included in the project are expected to be completed by the end
of 1981 but the dispatch facilities (for which the Bank is only financing the
studies related thereto) probably not before the end of 1983.
Project Operations
64.       National Level.  The present agreement on the operation of the
interconnected system between JUGEL and its constituent republican members
was signed in 1971 and in view of the planned expansion of the system and
the evident shortcomings of the operational procedures it has been agreed
that an amending agreement would be entered into by June 30, 1978, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07). The
amending agreement on the system's operation would, inter alia, allow for
future integration of recommendations by the management consultants concerning
JUGEL's dispatch functions. As a minimum, the new agreement would provide for
two major changes. First, JUGEL would be assigned the substantial control of
the 380-kV network. It would operate the network through the central dispatch
facility in consultation with the republics' dispatch. The agreement would
also make clear that the republics' dispatch may alter the operational status
of the network only after approval from JUGEL. Second, the agreement would
provide for the creation of a transmission pool at least at the 380-kV level
(if possible the 220-kV level would be included) through which all inter-
republican purchases and sales would be regulated including those of jointly-
owned plants.
65.       Regional Level.  Because the BOALs have in the past functioned
as autonomous enterprises and there was no coordination of financial planning
or consolidation of accounts at the republican level, and since the composite
organizations or COALs are by and large still in the process of establishing
themselves as coordinating organizations for planning purposes, consolidated
and reliable historical technical and financial information is still generally
lacking. One major objective of the proposed loan would be to strengthen the
coordinating role of the COALs and to enable them to fulfill their planning
function effectively. For this purpose, procedures would be developed for
consolidation of financial statements and management information systems would
be developed to provide management with prompt and regular information on
operations including financial results and implementation of the capital bud-
get. The COALs acting through JUGEL have agreed to engage consultants satis-
factory to the Bank to conduct a management study and to make recommendations
on organization, training, accounting and financial planning procedures and
on establishing adequate management information systems and to assist in
implementing the recommendations in consultation with the Bank and in accord-
ance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. The study could be undertaken
as an extension to the study already being conducted under Loan No. 836-YU
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(f)).



- 23 -
Assistance for Power Sector Planning and Coordination
66.       While in practice, physical, commercial and social factors have
induced some voluntary coordination between individual republics in terms
of joint ownership of generating plants and between all regions in the form
of the national transmission network, overall coordinated sector planning
is not pursued. With each region being autonomous and pursuing the objective
of meeting its own power needs at least cost, a national least cost approach
is not necessarily compatible. While recognizing this dichotomy the Bank has
over the past several years been urging that a national least cost development
study be carried out. While the findings of such a study would not necessarily
supersede the Yugoslav mechanism of socio-economic planning it would at the
very least provide benchmarks against which future projects could be evaluated
and a clear notion of the economic cost involved, if any, in optimising at
the regional as opposed to the national level.
67.       In November 1976 JUGEL with the consent of its constituent members
engaged consultants to carry out a national least cost power development
study. The study, while not funded by the Bank, is based on draft terms of
reference drawn up by the Bank and is scheduled for completion in 18 months.
68.       The Bank and JUGEL have also been discussing for some time a study
on tariff structures which the Bank has urged to be undertaken, because the
tariff structure, as opposed to tariff levels which have been adequate (see
paragraphs 43 and 44), has not been reviewed since its introduction in 1965.
A study of tariff structures, not financed by the Bank, was commissioned late
last year. The terms of reference provide for the marginal costing approach
which should provide guidance on any resulting cross subsidization and diver-
gencies from actual costs of supply.
69.       JUGEL has agreed that in order to facilitate our continuing dialogue,
the Bank would be given the opportunity to review regularly the progress of
both the least-cost development and tariff studies, receive all interim and
final reports, and would be informed by JUGEL of actions that it plans to
take following the findings of these studies (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Following initial completion of these studies, JUGEL would also discuss with
the Bank further work on tariff study and the continuation of the least-cost
development study (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02 (c) and (d)). The cost of
the additional work (including the management study referred to in paragraph 65
above), currently estimated at US$720,000 for about 300 manweaks of consulting
services, would be financed from the proposed loan.
Financial Structure and Performance
70.       Under the first project each of the borrowers (transmission enter-
prises) undertook to achieve an average net internal cash generation equiv-
alent to 35 percent of their respective investments in power facilities during
the plan period 1971-75. The average performance of the borrowers per republic
under this covenant has been satisfactory, although four of the 12 borrowers
did not achieve this objective due to the significantly higher investment
programs and delayed implementation of agreed special measures to raise
additional revenues.



- 24 -
71.       Since the signing of the loan for the first project in 1972, the
organizations within the power sector have undergone substantial changes in
line with changes which have taken place in Yugoslavia in accordance with
the Constitution of 1974 (see paragraphs 39-42). The 12 enterprises which
were signatories to the original loan agreement have since become members
of the WOALs and COALs in their respective republics and have entered into
self-management agreements to coordinate their principal functions. One of
the principal functions of the WOALs and COALs, in addition to coordinating
the planning and construction of new investments, has been the coordination
of financing new investment programs. The BOALs have now agreed to pool their
"free" funds within the COALs in their respective republics. The COAL in
each republic (under the general purview of the respective republican power
sector communities of interest) has therefore become the main planning or-
ganization with control over financial resources and the BOALs, although
largely autonomaus, are essentially executing agencies. Therefore, the con-
tribution to investment covenant under the proposed loan would be applica-
ble to the COALs, instead of to the individual executing enterprises, and
hence the covenant would be expanded to cover the entire investment programs
of the respective republics in both transmission and generation. The cove-
nant would require annual internal cash generation of a minimum 30 percent of
annual investment expenditures on transmission and generation (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.04). An interrepublican agreement promulgated in 1975 also specifies
about 30 percent as an appropriate target level of cash generation for the
power sector. Since such a financial undertaking is dependent on adequate
revisions of tariffs for which the maximum levels are set by the Guarantor
(the Federal Government), the Guarantor has agreed to revise such maximum
levels suitably to enable bulk supply and retail tariffs, as well as other
measures, to be so fixed in each republic as to generate the required in-
ternal funds for financing the sector development (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02(b)).
72.       These changes in the legal and financial status of the power enter-
prises and specifically our borrowers under the loan for the first project
requires an amendment to Loan No. 836-YU to conform to the arrangements under
the proposed loan; therefore, a proposed Loan Assumption Agreement has been
submitted for your consideration and has been distributed simultaneously
with this report.
73.       In addition to the management consultant studies to be undertaken
by each republic's COAL (see paragraph 65) which should, inter alia, improve
the coordination of financial planning at the republican level, two other
financial objectives are being sought. Traditionally the enterprises in the
Yugoslav power sector have emphasized capital investment plan implementations
to the detriment of planning and recording of annual operating results. Under
the proposed loan the actual and forecasts of operating results would be pre-
pared and reviewed each year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(d)). This, along
with the management studies, should lead to gradual improvement in financial
forecasting techniques.



- 25 -
74.       The financing plans for the entire power investment programs of the
six COALs for the period 1976-82 assume significant tariff increases and other
measures. Although some further adjustments in tariffs or other measures
would be required to permit each republic to meet the proposed contribution
to investment undertaking, the consolidated statement of all six shows that
for the sector as a whole (including distribution activities in Croatia), the
internal cash generation amounts to about 45 percent of investment require-
ments.  This includes funds provided as grants through special measures such
as surcharges on new industrial investments and special taxes on retained
earnings of industrial organizations which for the purposes of the contribu-
tion to investment covenant of the proposed Bank loan would not be counted as
internal cash since they do not directly relate to the sale of electricity.
On the basis of the more restrictive Bank covenant, internal cash generation
within the electric power sector would amount to about 38 percent of require-
ments. Borrowings would meet the balance of the requirements.
75.       The financial position of the COALs in each republic is satisfactory
and is expected to remain satisfactory through 1982 provided the measures en-
visaged at present are implemented. Though the debt service coverage will
generally have diminished significantly in 1982 compared to 1976, the financial
condition of the COALs would still be satisfactory as judged by debt service
coverage ratios of around 1.5. Current policy in all republics is to ensure
that tariffs are set to cover at least operating costs, including depreciation
and debt service. This policy is expected to be maintained. Any debt service
commitment which is not covered by internal cash generation would normally
be met from reserve funds or the pooled resources of the COAL. Therefore a
shortfall in a particular year caused by failure to achieve expected perform-
ance, would not prejudice the financial position of a borrower.
76.       Procurement and Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed loan
will be applied to the cost of transformers, circuit breakers, isolator
switches, metering transformers, lightning arrestors, shunt reactors, and
metering and protection equipment, purchased in accordance with international
competitive bidding consistent with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement.
The number of items to be submitted for tendering will be decided at the time
of issue of the bid documents taking into account the current estimate of
prices, the portion of the loan allocated to each republic and the number
and type of items of equipment in each republic. It is estimated that the
Bank loan would finance some 50-60 percent of the numbers required (i.e., an
average of about 55 percent of the 7 items of equipment listed above would
be submitted for ICB under the Bank Guidelines). In assessment of the bids,
Yugoslav manufacturers would receive a preference of 15 percent or applicable
duties, whichever is the lesser.  The probability appears high that Yugoslav
manufacturers will be successful in being awarded the contracts for most
of the equipment because the Yugoslav manufacturing industry has considerably
increased its production capacities of these types of equipment during the
execution of the first project. Equipment and materials to be financed
under the EIB loan would be procured separately under its guidelines and
procedures. For most other equipment, suppliers and similar credit would be
sought and procured separately under the general principles of international



- 26 -
competitive bidding, restricted to countries (including non-Bank Members) and
firms offering credits, and providing that credit terms would be taken into
consideration in bid evaluations.
77.       As it did for the first project, JUGEL would coordinate all matters
pertaining to procurement and disbursement. JUGEL would, under the responsi-
bility of its coordinating committee and subject to final approval by the
various organizations through the committee, prepare all bid documents, issue
bid documents, receive, review and evaluate bids, make proposals for the award
of contracts, and prepare final contracts between the successful bidders and
the relevant organizations. Bid documents, evaluation of bids and proposals
for award of contracts to be financed by the proposed Bank loan would be
subject to Bank review. JUGEL would administer all contracts. JUGEL has
agreed to engage consultants, most likely to be foreign, by December 31, 1977,
under conditions acceptable to the Bank, for assisting in the preparation of
comprehensive bid documents for all the dispatch facilities. The documents
would be guided by the recommendations of the management consultants (see
paragraph 62) who would prepare an interim report on this aspect of the sys-
tem, and be jointly prepared by republican experts and a dispatch committee.
The task will require about 125 manweeks of consulting services at a cost
of about US$280,000 (including contingencies). Civil works, which are to
be financed out of local funds, will largely be executed under nationally
applicable local bidding procedures which have proven satisfactory to the
Bank, based on experience under the first transmission project, as well as
under other ongoing Bank projects in Yugoslavia, and will include some force
account. The domestic construction industry is large and competitive enough
to service the project.
78.       Bank disbursements would extend over about five years.  An estimated
disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary. The proposed
loan would be disbursed against the CIF costs of imported items, the ex-factory
costs of items supplied by Yugoslav manufacturers, and the costs of consulting
services.
Audit
79.       Annual financial statements in Yugoslavia are subject to audit by
the Social Accounting Service (SAS). In the past the scope and quality of
these audits have not been considered satisfactory in the light of the Bank's
audit requirements. Currently, however, groups of SAS auditors are receiv-
ing training in modern auditing methods under the direction of international
auditors. This training was commenced at the Bank's instigation, and has been
closely monitored by the Bank. A Special Audit Group within SAS is now devel-
oping the expertise for carrying out comprehensive audit acceptable to the Bank.
About 70 staff members of the Special Audit Group have so far started training
and the program continues to expand annually. The question of extending the
Special Audit Group's audit to the electricity enterprises' accounts has been
discussed with SAS, but may not be possible immediately because of SAS staff-
ing constraints. For this reason, such audits will have to be introduced
gradually, starting with only one or two borrowers in the first instance.



- 27 -
The COALs have agreed to hold discussions with SAS with a view to formulating
by the end of 1977 a program for the audit of their annual financial statements
by the Special Audit Group of SAS, in consultation with the Bank. Meanwhile,
it has been agreed that the accounts would be audited by SAS or other com-
petent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
80.       Environment.  As under the previous loan, much of the right-of-way
is in rough country and very little land will be taken out of agricultural
production. Agreements have to be reached with all persons and institutions
affected, under the various republican laws for expropriations which aim at
a fair indemnification so as to provide former owners with not less than the
same economic situation they had prior to the infringement on their property.
As in many other European countries, opposition to transmission lines is
growing. Although in Yugoslavia the situation is not critical and extreme
care is taken in constructing lines so as to cause minimum adverse scenic
impact, action to obtain the necessary right-of-way would be initiated as
soon as possible as a necessary precaution against possible drawn-out nego-
tiations, thus avoiding delays in project completion.
Benefits and Risks
81.       The proposed project has a key role to play in achieving two major
goals of national energy policy, which are to end the perennial power deficits
by the end of this decade and to make maximum use of domestic energy resources
in achieving this. Installed capacity is expected to reach some 18,700 MW
by 1982 and this expansion will be based essentially on generating plants
utilizing the country's main primary energy sources of hydropower and coal
(mostly lignite). The location of generating plants is largely dictated by
the location of primary energy resources, which are spread unevenly throughout
the country. The 380-kV system expansion under the proposed project is the
least-cost means of connecting these dispersed sites and transmiting the energy
to the load centers. Power exchange is desirable in economic terms because of
the benefits stemming from the scale of operations, reduced reserve margins
and fuel savings resulting from the economic loading of plants.
82.       The agreement entered into for the operation of the interconnected
transmission system, as well as the results of the management, tariff, and
least-cost development studies, will enhance the coordination of the planning
and operation of the entire Yugoslav power sector and strengthen the institu-
tions entrusted to carry out these objectives.
83.       The rate of return on Yugoslavia's overall power development program
for 1976-1982 is estimated at 13.6 percent excluding distribution since suffi-
cient information on the investment of most of the autonomous distribution
organizations was not available. Although the project can be isolated with
respect to cost, isolation of its benefits (as measured by attributable
revenues) is impossible because bulk prices are at the substations' supply
side and internal allocation of revenue to the various generation and trans-
mission BOALs, which vary widely among republics, may have little relation to
actual cost of the service. The benefits, therefore, comprise the attributable



- 28 -
revenues from sales at the bulk supply level. Since the prices paid by the
consumers represent a minimum value of the benefits, the derived rate of
return of 13.6 percent would represent a lower limit for the return on the
program. Assuming 10 percent higher capital costs, the rate of return would
be 12.3 percent. If electricity rates were 10 percent higher, the rate of
return would be 16.4 percent. The sensitivity tests indicate that the rate
of return is more sensitive to variations in electricity rates than to changes
in capital costs.
84.       There are certain risks inherent in any project of this size and
complexity; namely, possible delays in receiving all the required funds and
the ability of the borrowers and executing enterprises in carrying out the
project in a coordinated and timely manner. The Federal and republican
authorities are fully aware of the magnitude of the required funds and are
expected to make every effort, as they have under the first transmission
project, to provide them as promptly as needed since they attach very high
priority to the power sector's development. The risk of physical delays in
the project is not great due to the experience gained under the first project
and the various measures undertaken in the proposed project to strengthen
project management, coordination, and implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Loan Agreement among the Bank and Elektroprivreda Bosne
i Hercegovine-Sarajevo, Zajednica Elektroprivrednih Organizacija Hrvatske-
Zagreb, Elektroprenos-Skopje Organizacija za Prenos Elektricne Energije
u Sastavu Elektrostopanstva Makedonije-Skopje, Elektroprenos-Titograd
Organizacija za Prenos Elektricne Energije u Sastavu Elektroprivrede Crne
Gore-Niksic, Electroistok-Beograd Organizacija za Prenos Elektricne Energije
u Sastavo Zdruzenog Elektroprivrednog Preduzeca-Beograd, Zdruzena Elektro-
gospodarska Podjetja Slovenije-Maribor (the six borrowers), and Elektro-
stopanstvo Makedonije Skopje, Elektroprivreda Crne Gora Niksic, Zdruzeno
Elektroprivredno Preduzece Beograd (the three composite organizations
of associated labor or COALs from Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia) and
Zajednica Jugoslovenske Elektroprivrede-Beograd (JUGEL); the draft Project
Agreement between the Bank and 8 additional executing enterprises; the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
and the Bank; the draft Loan Assumption Agreement related to Loan No. 836-YU
among the Bank, the borrowers under Loan No. 836-YU, and the signatories
(including the COALs) to the proposed draft Loan Agreement; the report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement; and the text of the draft resolution approving the above loan,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
86.       Provisions of the agreements of special interest were noted in
paragraphs 59 through 73 of this report. Special conditions of effec-
tiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) are:



- 29 -
(i)  The amendment of the project coordination guidelines entered
into under the first Power Transmission Project between JUGEL
and the participating power enterprises has been duly authorized
and ratified and the Project Unit established under such guide-
lines has become fully operational (referred to in paragraphs
61 and 62 of this report);
(ii)  All local financing arrangements, including cost overrun
guarantees, are in full force and effect (referred to in
paragraph 59 of this report); and
(iii)  The execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
participating signatories.
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 13, 1977



7U600L41: *o          ,  OES;L I wSgYeM    SA USNA                            -P a     of 4 pem
LAND iNtA (THOU MN3*                     *-e-s-- m--------s-u-u--------------. ---------.-s
* , , , ..... Is                                                                             OEFESYZ  AIP NCE CuNT 13    91N0)
TOTOL,       331.6                                           NO;? RhEUMY
.0910.       144.2                         l9T0        1970  t3TINTA?              RUMANIA          SPAIN           SIRMANY Fla. XP.**
..                                  - ...........* -,0.o
POPULAiTON AND VITALI TAT671CS
POPULA?JOoj tMt0*94. NILLIONI              16,i        20,4        21.3                 30.3         33.4         41*,
POPULATION DENSItY
PffI SQU^*41  pM,                        ?3.0       80,0        63,0                   s,0       47.0        340,0
PR 30. KM- A6RXCULTURAL LAND            i14.0       139.0      147.0                13.0        105.0        439,0
VITAL 8T8y!61?C6
CRUD! 65T9   RATE (JTDOU. Ay$           38.6       a1.0        16.3                  19.0        a1.o         17.3
CRUDE OEATH RATt  tWOU,cA                lips         9,1       9*,                    6,9          8,8        11,4
TNFANT 4OANL1TY    C RA E 147NOUS        66.0       5S.5        40.5                 4904         3149         U3,3
LlIP  EwPECTANCY AT SIR   t(S)           43.17       41.7       46.0  '7.7                        Toss          0.3
0R055 REPRODUCTION RAf                    1.04        1,3        1.3                   1.3          1.4          lo.
OPLULAT!oJ IROWTH RiTE (xi
TOTAL                                     1.3         1'0         0.9/a                t.0          let          1.0
URRAN                                     4.0         4.4          ,,                  3,4          3.0         4,1
JRBAN POPULATION  (t OF TOTALS             17,        38.1       39,0                  40.6         59.1        63.4
AGE STRU1tuRE (PcECINTS
.0 TO 14 YEERS                          30.7        36,3        26.3                 15,9         31.8         as.1
15 79 64 yt*Rs                          43.3        84.3        65.4                 45.5         b2.5         43,.
45 YEARS AND OPER                         4.1         1.'        8.3                   6,4         9,1         13,3
Aec  fEEN0nENCy RATIO                      0           0.-         0.1                 D05 0S4                    0,4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY 94110                   1.0          ,,         0.8/b                0.7/b        S t          0.9
P49411Y PLANNN
C1CEP7T18 (CUMULATIVE, T"?U*
USFRS f(  OP MARRED wOMN                   *
E'"9LOY"EN?
~,...-....
TOTAL LASg0  PterE  (TNOU6AND)           U300.0          .      9100 0/c             9900,0      11900.0      24500,0
LA l     wSOR  O IN kGRICU6TUR0UR          5T.0          .        3 b d17:             40,0         35.0          6,9
J fMPLLOyo Ctl OPt LAS00 PORteI             7.0          ,.        3.4/d                  .           1.1/a        0.7
INCOME OTSiRTaUTION
s or PRIVATE INCOME RUCulD SI.
h41GNEST  5S OP' OUStMOLDS               14.4/a     151 
MItOMEST 201 or 4OUSINO.DS               41.s7/a    * 1.8
lWIEST  20S OP MOUMIMLD6                  4.9/a      *.            .                    .* c         .a 
LOwST  405 Or NOUSMOLDG                 19t.0a     18.4           ,                    *-           *.
DISTRIPUTIoN  OP LAND OWNERSHIP
4 OWUFD Si*O lOX 108 OP QwNER  (I)         151   *     5.1 *      15.1 *                               .
S OWNEO IV SMALLESY 10t  OWNERS (II)   640. *          84.9 *     94.  *                  .            *,
4EALTM AND NUTRITION
-....*..-....w......
'0PULATION PER PNIYSICIN                 1370 0/b    870 ./a      690.C0e              68EO        740 i  -Lb   560o0
'OPULATION  PER NURBINO PLvRSON           430O-/c    280.07-    220.0/f               200.0            .      3J5.0
POPULATION PIN 406SP?TL  EID              200.0       170.0       170.0                140 o/c     220.0         90,0
PER e^Apli SUPPLY Ors,
CALORIES  XO  RjISUC I MtjEjeM         1l1.0       124.0       135.   /g            11600        107.0        131.0
P0OT(194 CIRAKS PfR 041191.0              93.0        94.0.L               93.0         61.0         66.0
0nrttN t61t&"S prtl 04yi               Yl0o                   T4,  a                 1*0         *  o         &@
.-o  WHIN ANIMLM AND PULSE            37.0       23.0           ,.                 38.0         40.0         5,0
'CATu RkAT  (IET4Ui Alt$ 1.4                4.3         2.4         1.7                  3.4          o.s          0,9
EDUCATjON
&O3U3TCD CJ9LLtMCN1 RATIO
PRIMARY SCWOOL:                          94.0       94.t        9.0                 111.0        131.0        S2qt
SECONOADPY SCNOO.L                       300        43.0        46S0                 48.0         57.0         84.0
YEARO OF SCHOOLINS PrOV?DE0
fFPSrT AND SECOND LEVELI                 11,0       12.0        12.0                 12 - 13      11.0         15,0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
tXDOF SECONDARY)                        73.0        72.0        74,0                 58.0         30,0         46,0
ADLLT LITERACY RtATE' t1i                  77.0       85,0           ,,                    *        9*0          99,0
HOUSIMp
PER0Qjs PER opom CuRtSANi                   1.7                                           . 3l/h  1,3/d  .        0,7/a
ICCUPICD OWttLLIN5a owITtatU
(% WITHOu                                 ..          .        4.0. .,,              S.Oi  o0/d e              0.3/b
ACCESS To ELEeTRICITY
CI Or ALL DWELLINSS)                    5 45           ,        87 TTh              4*9.0/d         ,,        I00,0
CPUAL 13rELLINSS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITIY (31                      38,j           ,       *0.1/h               a7.0 /d         .
CeOSUMPTTON
...........
RAO%n PEeEIVEtS (PER7 THOU POP)            85.0       165.0       196.0                151.0       al4,0        316.0
PASsrNGER CAN$ (PtR T'OU pool               3.0        35,0       64o0                               71.0       320.0
ELEtTRICITy fyWHIR PER   APi               80.0     13o 6.0     16o850               11.0         1434.0       4136,0
NIEWSPPINT 1KG/YR PER cmP                   3.3         4.3         3.9                  3.45:    563.5           7
SEE NOTES AND        N         , ,,,,,,,    .................OO............................................,
SCE YofES  4n r>trtaTZOl ON t tEi



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data fnc 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, end for Mest Recent Estimate
between 1973 and 19750
*  I  Agriculture Iod held by social sector -  "Rmabioate."
e II  Agriculture land held by private small-holders "10 heatares maoismm."
Selection of Fedoral Republic of Germany as an objective country is based no the close econonic ties maintained by the two countries
as wall as on the fact that the greater part of Yugoslavia's around one nillion workers temporarily abroad have found employment in
the Federal Republic of Germany.
YUGOSLAVIA            1960   /a  1963;   /b  Including dentists;   /c  Inclding midwives, assistant midwives, assistant nurses and
surging auxiltries.
1970   /a  Including dentists;   /b  Including nidwives, assistant nidwivea, assistant nurses and morning auxilaries
MOST RECENT ESTITATE    Is  1970-75;   /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
Ic  Including about 800 thousasd migrant workers working outside;   id  Residents only;
/e  Including dentists;   /f  Including midwives, assistast midwives, assistant nurses and
nursing asoilaries;   7i  1969-71 average;   /h  1971;   1   Inside only.
ROMASIA               1970   Ia  The calculation of these figures is under discussion;   /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over
to total labor force;   /c  Full-time educatiso  only;   7d  1966;   /e  Inside only.
SPAflI                1970   /a  Ecplosyent office estimate;   /b  Registered, not all prscticing in the co.ntry.
GERHA1IY FEDr   REP.   1970   Ia  Totil, urban and rural;   /b  Inside only.
R14, may 19, 1977
DELINITIONS OF SOcIAL INDICATOSS
Land Area (thou kh2)                                                                        Population per moraing er-acn - Popolartis divided by macber of practcinsg
Total - Total surfcs ce a..     asprising land  -rea and inland waters,                       mle and feisle graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" n-reen, and
Agri. - Most recent e.tinats of agriculturol ares ueed tenporarily or pe.ea-                  amailiary peerss-l with training oreaperience
neatly for oropa, pastures, tmrkat & kitches gardens or to lie fallow.                     opulation ear hospital bed - Population divided by somber of hospital beds
available in public and private general and ep.tialised hospital and
GNP Per ns its (USO) - GNP per capita a:tiates at ourett market prices,                        -aebbilitation centers; excludes nureig hoes and esteblithenta for
clculated by same conversioc &ethod as World Bank Atlaa (1973-75 basin);                   cpstodial and preventive care.
196f; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per co.its suply of celecies (% of ressireteest) - Cmputed fron energy
equivalent ef met food supplies available in .ountry per capita per day;
P.nplation and vital statistic,                                                               available supplies comprise domestic prod-ctiom, imports less aspects, asd
Poeplotion (mid-year nillion)   As of Joly firset  if not available, average                  changes in  tstok; sat s-ppliss erclude anisal feed, seeds, quantities need
of tvo end-yeor eotifsate; 17360, 1970 and 1975 data,                                      it food processing and lssea iL distribution; reqoireenats ware estimated
by FAG based on physislogi-al seeds for normal activity end health consid-
Papolation density - per square kh  - Mid-year pepulation per square kilometer                ering environmental temperature, body weights, age and sea distribhtione of
(l00 hectares) of total area.                                                               population, and allowing 107 far waste at household level.
FoPslation  eanonitv - nor sonora ho of anric, land - Compoted as abaov  for                Per .pit. supply of protein (grsams ear day) - Protein contest of per capita
agrioultoesi land onty.                                                                     net upply of food per day; mat supply of food is defited as absoe; require-
meats for all .osotries established by USDA Eceom-ic Re.searbh Sereices
Vittl statistics                                                                              pravide for a minimum, allowance of 60 greos of total protein per day, and
Cruds birth rate per thusand, overage - Annual live births per thousand of                    20 grams of animal and pulse protein, cf which 1 grea ehould be asialI
mid-year pop.lation; te-year -rithcstic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these  tandarde ace lower than those of 75 gr-a  of total proteti
and five-ypor  -verage ending it 1975 for moot recent estimate.                             and 23 grama of animal protein as snaverage for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rote per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year               in the Third World Fond Survey.
population; ten-ywar oithtvtic avrages ending in 1960 ad 1970 and five-                   Per -apit. ptentin srpply frot  animal and pulas - Protein supply of food
year average coding in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                                       derived from animals end pulses in grams per day.
Icfant mortality rate (/tho-) - Annual deaths of infanis onder one year of age              Death rota (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age gronp 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group; soggesttd as an indicator of
Life nopottncy at bitch (yrc) -        Average  outbor of years of life remaining at           aln-triti-n
birth; usually five-year overageo coding in 1961, 1970 and 1973 far develop-
ing countries.                                                                            Educatien
Gros reprduction rate - Average snber af live daughters a wonas will bear                   Adjusted enrollhent ratio - pritrry tch..l - Enrallnent of all ages as per-
in her sornal reprod-ctive period if ahe.eperiancee present age-specific                    centage of primary school-age populatiom; includes children aged 6-11 years
fortility rate.; asutlly fitv-year noeragnc ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths af primary education; for co-ntries with
for developing aquntri-s                                                                    universal education, enrollment may exceed 1007. since sme pupils are below
Pspuestion oconch -tae (7.1 - totaI - Cipound annual grouth rate  of mid-year                 or above the oftiniel school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75,                                              Adjusted  -orl1ment ratio - secondary schonI - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rats (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                       education requires at least four year  of appraved pri-ary i-ntruction;
popalation; different deficitiors of urban areas noy affect comparability of                presides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among c-ntris.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correppond.nce c..rse. are generally enladed.
frhbn pspilstion (2 of total) - Ratio of urban tc  tortl popslation; different              Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas nay affcet conp-bahility of data tonng countries,                schoolin; at secondary level, vocational inatrsctiss nay be partially or
c.epletely eeluded.
dge strutetro (percent) - Children (0-li yars), working-age (15-64 years),                  Vqcational enrollmont (% of secondary) - Vonational insctitstion  inlude
and retired (65 years and aver) as ptrcenta-ge  of mid-yeer population.                     technicl, induttrial or other pr-grms which operate independently or
Age dopecdcncy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 a-d 65 and over to those                  departoonts of secondary insticntionsr
cf ages 15 thtough 64.                                                                    kdolt literacy rate (7) - Liter-re adolts (able to read and write) as per-
Encomin  dependency ratio - Ratin of popslation tnder 11 and 65 and over to                  centage of total adult population aged 15 years sad over
the lhbor forc- is ago group of 15-64 y-ers
Easily olanning - acreptort (nonulotive, thou) - Cttulative tumber of acceptors             H...sing
of birth-c-tr-1 devises order anspinto of notional fonily planning program                Persena per room (orban) - Average cnkber af persons per room in occupied
since inception-                                                                            tonvntional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings  -aclode non-permanent
F=ilV plosing - tasrs (7, of married 'omen) - Percentages of tarried  -omen of                rtructsres sod unottupied ports
cbild-bearing age (15-4  years) who ste birth-control devices tv all narried              icc.pied dwellings wi-hot piped water (7) - Occupied conventional dwellings
wvorn  nc sa   ago gro9 p.                                                                  in orbsn and roralI areas eithoot inide or o-tside piped wartr facilities
as percentage of all -otcpied dwellings.
smplovmest                                                                                Atonsa to electricity (% of all dwellings)  _ Ctonvantional dwollinga with
Total labor frrce (thoosond) - icononirally s-tive pecasre, it-ioding arned                   rlectricity in living quarters as pernesac  f total dwe-llins it  urban and
fonts, and u-nployed bht oenlading ho--eioves,  tud-nts, etc.; definitions                  rural areas.
tn variounsurc- tri-s are sot c=p-rabl-                                                   fural dwellings coneneted to electricity  (1,  Compated as sbove foc ror-l
Labor farce in agriculturc (7) - Agririolt-rl labor font  (in faming, forestry,               dwellings  nly.
hosting and fishing) s per-catage of total labor force.
UInployed (7. of Iab-r force) - )nmployod are usually dofised a0 petaona who                Cons.mption
are  hble and willing to take a job, our of a job on a give-  day, renamed not            Radio receivere (per than pep) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and arcking wark for a spe-ified rinimua  period rot -nceeding one                to general poblic per thousand of populatton; excludes osli.se.ed receivers
crak; voy cot be eneporabla between -coutries  duv to different definitions                  in countries ad in years when registration of radio sets one i  effect;
of -on-ploped sod source of data, e.g., employsent offic- statistics, ra_ple                 dots for renent yearn nay rot be comparable stats soar countries abolished
survey,, rcoo-lsory snn-ploy-eot inurance..                                                  Iicuing.
Passenger cars (Per tho- Pp) - Passenger cars comprtie aotor tore seating
Intote distribution - Por-entoge of private income (both in cash and kind)                     lean than sight persona; sexludes aobulan.es, hearses and military
rrtcei-d by richest 5%, rinhert 207, poorest 207, and poorest 40% of house-                  vehicles
folds.                                                                                     glectriciry (kwh/yr per cap) - Andral consumption of industrial, coenfrtal,
public and private eleotricity in kilowa.tt hours per capita, genera -py
Oistcition of lord pwnerrhip-Per-centagss of bend  -ned by wealthiest 10%                      bosed on predurtian data, without afltwanee for losses io grids bht allo-
and poorest 107 ef land owners                                                              lug for imports and export- of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per sap) - Per capita a...al Cons1 aption in kilagrams
desatt on  Nutrition                                                                           estimated from doeadcif  prdodction plus e-t imports of nowaprint.
Population vet ph"sicfie - Populacion divided by nuPter of practicing
physiciasn qositfied from a medical rchoob at oniverrtiny level.



ANNEt I
Page 3 of 4
ECOPOIIC DSP WP2URT DATA
(Aecomts in Million US Dollars)
Actual             Prelhoinarv    Pro.ected
1972     1973     1974        19753 L         1976 1/           1965-72       1972-75      1973-76         1972     1974      1976
NATIObAL ACCOUNTS                       Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate of $1 - 17.0 Din.              Average Annual Growth Rates               As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                    21,638  22,720   24,765       25,887         26,922                 5.6          6.2           5.8         97.8    100         99.3
Gains fro= Terms of Trade                    468     681       _          +142           +197                                                         2.2      -          0.7
Gross Domestic Income                     22,106  23,401   24,765       26,029         27,119                 5.5          5.6           5.0        100.0    100        100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                        6,588   7,600    8,312        8,350          8,082                12.6          8.2           2.1         29.7     33.6       29.8
Exports (incl. NFS)                        5.437   5.788    5.694        5.872          6.506                 6.3          2.6           4.0         24.5     23.0       24.0
Resource Gap                               1,151    Mi2    2,618         2,478          1,576
Con-muption Expenditure                   16,139  17,716   19,953    019,795           19,670                 6.7          7.0           3.5         73.0     80.6       72.5
Investment Expenditure                     6,650   6,816    7,429        8,570          8,827                 6.0          8.8           9.0         30.1     30.0       32.5
National Savings                           6,904   6,806    6,241        7,330          8,717                 6.6           2.0          8.6         31.2      25.2      32.1
Domestic Savings                           5,499   5,006    4,812        6,092          7,252                 3.1          3.5          13.2         24.9     19.4       26.7
XERCHAflISE TRADE                                  Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                     As a Percentase of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                              689   1,004    1,305        1,887          X,877                                                        21.4     17.4       25.0
Petroleum                                  126     296      843          756          1,015                                                         3.9     11.2       13.5
Intermediate Goods                       1,910   2,513    4,398        4,296          3,826                                                        59.2     58.5       51.0
Consumption Goods                          502     698      972          758            784                                                        15.6     12.9       10.5
-        Total Mersh. Imports (c.i.f.)            3,227   4,511    7,518        7,697           7,502                                                       100.0    100.0     100.0
Exports                           I
Capital Goods                              316     389      514          695            920                                                        14.1     13.5       18.8
Textile and Leather Goods                  362     409      477          600            761                                                        16.2     12.5       15.6
Non-ferrous Metallurgy                     272     325,    556           458            472                                                        12.2     14.6        9.7
Agricultural Products (incl. food)         400     475      439          488            640                                                        17.9     11.5       13.1
Other                                      887   1.255    1.819        1.831          2,093                                                        39.7     47.8       42.8
5     Total Merch. Exports (f.o.b.)             2,237   2,853    3,805       4,072           4,886                                                      103.0    100.0      100.0
MERCRANDISE TRADE INDICES                                   1974   100
Export Price Index                          63      76      100          109            114
Import Price Index                          58      68      100          105            109
Terms of Trade Todex                       109     112      100          104            105
Export Voluome  Index                       93      99      100           98            112
VALISE ADDED BY SECTOR                    Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Eachange Rate
of $1 - 17.0 Din.                                                                       As a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                              3,213   3,496    3,763        3,663          3,846                 2.7          4.5          3.2          15.6     16.0       15.0
Manufacturing and Mining                 6,374   6,712    7,471        7,888          8,125                 6.6          7.4          6.6          31.0     31,8       31.8
Other                                   10.956  11 362   12.276       13.026         13.589                 5.4          5.9          6.2          53.3     52.2      53.2
Total                                   20,543  21,370   23,512      24,577          25,560                 5.3          6.2          6.2         100,0    100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE 2/                                           Current Prices                                                                          As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Current Receipts                         2,772   3,489    4,841         ..             ..                   ..           ..            ..          17.5     19.5
Current Expenditures                     2,520   3,154    4,794         ..             ..                   ..           ..            .           16.0     19.4
Budgetary Savings                          251     334      -47         ..             ..                   ..           ..            .            1.6      0.2
Public Sector Investment                   224     281      328         ..             ..                   ..           ..            ..           1.4      1.3
LAbOR FORCE AND OUTPT PER WORKER 3/                      TOTAL LABOR FORCE                                 VALUE ADDED PER WODFER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE $1 = 17 Din.
Million       % of Total          1972-75                     US Dollars            Percent of AwraBe         1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975  Av. A=. Grot, Rate                1972      1975            1972      1975    Av. Ann. Growth Rate
Agriculture 4/                            3.6    -3.0   45.0    37.4           -5.9                       893    1,211               35        40           10.7
Mhnufacturing and Mining                  1.65    1.87   20.6    23.3           4.3                     3,863    4,218              150       138            3.0
Other 3/                                  2.75    3,15   34.4    39.3           4.6                     3.984    4.135              155       135            1.2
Total                                     8.00    8.02  100.0   100.0           0.1                     2,568    3,064              100       100            6.1
1/ To be updated upon receipt of latest statistical data
2/ Budgets of Pederation, Republics and Autonomous Provinces, and Coomunes.
3/ Total resident active labor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad and unemployed,
41 Active labor force in the private sector (agriculture and other) and, accordingly, total are estimates.
Europe,  Middle East and North Africa Region
May 31, 1977
.



AM=EX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                    Estimated  Proiected  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975        1976        1977__      1972-75
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                 3425    4407    5694    6315        7259        8125           16.5
Imports (incl. NFS)                 3821    5168    8312    8767        8666       10030           23.1
Resource Balance (X-M)              -395    -761   -2618   -2452        -1408      8  0
Interest                            -165    -222    -285    -337        -360        -428           19.6
Workers Remittances                  889    1310    1511    1575         1728       1700           15.4
Other factor services net             17       50      93       62         40         42           38.2
Current Transfers (net)               74       87     110      120       150         150           12.8
Balance on Current Account           419      454   -1189   -1032         150       -441
M&LT Loans L
Disbursements                      943    1170    1426    1850         1700       1781           20.1
Repayments                        -570    -686    -814    -930         -900      -1091           13,6
Net Disbursements                    373      454     612      920        800        690           28.3
Capital Transactions n.e.i.L2       -117    -285      139     -68         -33          -
Use of Reserves                     -675    -663      438      180     _917         -250                 Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                             DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE5       1972    1973    1974       1975
Official Grants & Grant-like          -        -       -        -    Public Debt Out. &         161.0  1963  2053T        22775
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                              75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                 -       -        -       -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                  -       -        -       -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                      183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service            638.2   746.4   822.7    989.7
Suppliers                         82.3     3.0       .6      -    Total Debt Service           855.7  1048.5  1206.2   1419.5
Financial Institutions           121.4      -      73.1    86.2
Bonds                               -       -      51.5      -    Burden on Export Earnings (%)/5
Public Loans n.e.i.                4.2      -        -       -
Total Public M&LT Loans            466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio i5.0          5,2     5.2       5.4
Total Debt Service Ratio   19.5    18.1    16.5        17.7
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -         -        -        -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                Disbursements only          Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                         559.1                 24.6
IDA                                  --                                Int. as % Prior Year
Other Multilateral                   5.3                    .2                        DO&D         4.7      6.0     5.4       5.9
Governments                       1304.3                 57.4          Amort. as % Prior Year
Suppliers                          115.6                  5.1                         DO&D        11.5    12.7    15.1      15.0
Financial Institutions             269.9                 11.9
Bonds                               18.1                   .8        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                    .1                  -            "  as % Public Debt O&D  19.6    18.8    20.6         24.6
2272.5                100.0          "  as % Public Debt
Services    14.7    12.7    11.6       12.9
Other M6LT Debts/3.               3492.7
Short-term Debt (disb. only)         -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IME account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/  Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
May 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at April 30, 1977)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans fully disbursed                                       474.7
751      1971   SFRY                          Roads                  35.0     0.3
752      1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran    Tourism                  10.0     0.4
777      1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water   45.0    29.5
782      1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism                 20.0      1.4
836      1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia   Power                   75.0    12.3
894      1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agricultural
Industries          31.0     6.2
916      1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline           59.4    23.4
947      1973   Kikinda                       Iron Foundry           14.5     0.7
965      1974   IMT                           Tractor Factory        18.5     0.1
966      1974   FOB                           Iron Foundry           15.0     0.7
990      1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                 Roads                  30.0     1.9
1012     1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Industrial Credit    28.0    10.8
1013     1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit    22.0         9.7
1026     1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways               93.0    47.7
1060     1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion       44.0    34.7
1066     1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     5.9
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural Credit  50.0    45.8
1143     1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                 Roads                  40.0    32.2
1173     1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline              49.0    46.3
1262     1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources             20.0    19.8
1263     1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage              45.0    44.5
1264     1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control               38.0    38.0
1277     1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit                50.0    49.5



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1360/a   1977   Management Organization       Multipurpose Water   54.0    54.0
"Metohija"
1370/a   1977   Investiciona Banka,           Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries             26.0    26.0
1371/a   1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agriculture
Industries            24.0    24.0
1377/a   1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                       Roads                  56.0    56.0
Total (less cancellation)                               1,473.2    621.8
of which has been repaid                                  160.8
Total now outstanding                                   1,312.4
Amount sold                             7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.3                 1.5
Total now held by Bank                                  1,310.9
Total undisbursed                                                   621.8
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1977)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                       Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation  Investment
for Yugoslavia                        Corporation      -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.       Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev         Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt       Industry         7.5    2.3       9.8
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler              Automotive
Benz A.G.                             Industry        12.9    2.9      15.8
1972   Sava/Semperit                           Tires            4.0    1.5        5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                             Pulp and Paper 13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO                Special Steel  10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                          Cement Plant   10.0       -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                     Steel           50.0      -      50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                  112.7   16.7    129.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                     61.3    2.3      63.6
Total commitments held by IFC                             51.4   14.4      65.8
Total Undisbursed                                          8.8    6.2       15.0



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well. All road sections are open for traffic, although one section
in Slovenia is about 92 percent complete. Because of shortage of funds the
Republican Road Authority has reprogrammed its completion. The first 44 km
was opened at the end of June 1976 and the last 6.5 km will be finished by
September 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Following initial delays in project implementation due to appointing
consultants, providing the necessary infrastructure and obtaining approvals by
local authorities, bids received in July 1974 indicated that the project, as
originally envisaged (2,500 beds), would cost approximately 100 percent above
the originally estimated cost of US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly
due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the project spon-
sors have agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 1,616 beds
(Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-258) at an estimated cost
of US$39.9 million, requiring additional financing by the sponsors of about
US$14.0 million. Following the resolution of the financial problems excellent
progress was made and the Port and Village hotels were opened for occupancy
on June 4, 1976. Structural problems were encountered with the foundations
for the Cliff Hotel, but construction was completed and the hotel opened on
April 2, 1977.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir will be filled
soon. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
legislation. A draft law has been prepared by the Kosovo Government and is
expected to be enacted in the near future, which will assist in the formation
of specialized services, including agricultural extension for the private
sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the
project sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034
beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost
of US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million
and a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendiient
to Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy on June 5, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The Project construction is progressing slowly and is expected to
be completed by December 1977, about one year late. Its cost has increased to
about $425 million (up 89 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The
resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received from the Federal
Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources.
Appointment of management consultants was delayed until mid 1976 and their
report is now expected in June 1978, about 3 years late. The promulgation of
the new Constitution in 1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and
financial status of the Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement
of their policy of pooling resources at the Republican levels requires changes
in the legal arrangements including the application of financial covenants.
These are being considered along with the proposed second power transmission
project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka.  Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, five are under construction. Status
of the two remaining subprojects is as follows: (i) slaughterhouse facility
construction contract has been signed but is being amended to incorporate
Bank's comments; (ii) wine byproducts facility will either be retendered or
not constructed at all because of the high investment costs and resulting low
financial viability. In latter case, a substitute subproject will be financed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by early 1979.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date:  May 28, 1974; Closing Date:  March 31, 1978.
The Project was inaugurated on September 4, 1976. Total project
costs exceeded appraisal estimates by about 12% (about US$4.5 million equiv-
alent) due to increases in local costs resulting largely from design changes.
Financing of this overrun was arranged with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974: Effective Date: June 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions including some equipment procurement, however, is con-
tinuing.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by four months. The
Project cost is expected to exceed appraisal estimates by 45% (about US$20
million equivalent) due to higher than anticipated inflation and some design
changes. The cost overrun is entirely in local currency and is being
financed by a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977.
Five out of six road sections are complete. The remaining section
should be completed by June, 1977.  Two requests for changes in road alignments
have been agreed in order to provide better service to two communities.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is almost fully committed,
but the final date for submission of sub-projects has been extended by six
months to June 30, 1977 to allow adjustments in individual sub-loans, as
needed, and to allow the banks time to submit additional projects for finan-
cing from resources freed as a result of such adjustments. Loan disbursements
have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to soon catch up
and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. After substantial delays in project execution due principally
to financial and administrative difficulties, good progress is now being made.
Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs to lag behind
inflation, but tariffs have recently been increased to cover current inflation.
The Bank is currently reviewing with the Government the form of subsidization
being proposed. Good progress continues on investment planning.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but is now about 8
months behind schedule due to delays in procurement, most recently regarding
the grain silos, for which final designs have not yet been completed. Com-
pletion of the project is likely to be at least 6 months after the original
completion date of December 1977.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation. Preliminary calculations indicated the need for a
substantial tariff increase to meet the Loan Agreement's financial covenants,
but the commune authorities approved a smaller increase. The Bank is seeking
explanations from the communal and federal authorities together with their
proposals for resolving the matter.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effective
Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Commitments for investments in social sector enter-
prises are running ahead of those for private farmers, due largely to insti-
tutional arrangements in Yugoslavia, but a substantial pipeline of private
sector subprojects will ensure the desired balance. As of May, 1977 more
than half of the project funds have been committed, following a slow start.
Disbursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational
and learning curve problems and the time lag between commitments and dis-
bursements.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction has started in the Republics of Serbia, Slovenia
and Montenegro. Two contracts have still to be awarded in the Republic of
Montenegro.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a four-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the project will be completed
on schedule.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is under way. Terms of Reference
and selection of consultants have been finalized for the flood control and
water quality studies. Final designs and tender documents for the Vrutci Dam
are being reviewed, and construction should begin in 1977. Construction is
under way on some parts of the Cacak component and tenders are being invited
for the principal work in Titovo Uzice. The impetus towards the creation of
the Morava Region Water Community of Interest has slowed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing is being strength-
ened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been recruited
and work on four major tenders is completed. Tendering began in April 1977, a
few months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan was declared effective on May 31, 1977.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Twenty-five subprojects, including 18 below the free limit, have been
approved for disbursements for a total committed amount of US$14.9 million.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 29, 1977.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is June 30, 1977.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is June 30, 1977.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: July 11, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 11, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - SECOND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                 About 6 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                 JUGEL with the assistance of
power organizations in the
respective republics
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:               April 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:          During visit in May 1976 of
supervision mission for first
Power Transmission Project
(Loan No. 836-YU)
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                September 8, 1976
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                    April 29, 1977
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 November 30, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Specific arrangements for utilizing suppliers' financing and any addi-
tional financing required from foreign sources would be completed in a
timely manner, satisfactory to the Bank (paras 58 and 59);
(b)  Finalization of local financing arrangements and financing guarantees
in each republic to cover any cost overruns would be obtained (conditions
of effectiveness, para 59);
(c)  Amendments would be made to project implementation guidelines entered
into under first Power Transmission Project between JUGEL and partici-
pating power enterprises (condition of effectiveness, paras 61 and 62);
(d) JIUGEL would establish a "Project Unit" by November 30, 1977 (condition
of effectiveness, para 62);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) JUGEL would review with the Bank ongoing management study with respect
to 'its own organization, discuss recommendations and implement agreed
changes within six months of completion of study (para 62);
(f) Agreement would be entered into among executing enterprises on construc-
tion scnadule designed to facilitate concurrent completion of related
components (para 63);
(g) An amending agreement on the operation of the interconnected transmis-
sion system would be signed between JUGEL and its constituent republican
members to include, inter alia, new dispatch and pooling arrangements
(para 64);
(h) As an extension of the ongoing management study, borrowers in each repub-
lic would engage consultants to conduct management studies on organization
and financial planning procedures (para 65);
(i) JUGEL would review with the Bank progress of both the ongoing least-cost
development and tariff studies and would inform Bank of actions planned
as result of studies and, if needed, further studies would be made
(paras 66-69);
(j) Participating power organizations would undertake to generate at least 30
percent contribution to investment in transmission and generation in each
republic from internal cash generation (para 71);
(k) Federal Government would undertake to guarantee that maximum levels for
electricity tariffs would be set to enable tariffs and other measures to
be so fixed in each republic as to generate the required internal funds
for financing the sector's development (para 71);
(1) JUGEL would engage consultants by December 31, 1977 for assisting in
preparation of bid documents for all dispatch facilities (para 77); and
(m)  Borrowers would formulate by end-1977 a program for the audit of their
annual financial statements by the Special Audit Group of SAS (para 79).



YtDMLAVTA
SEl:OND PWER TRA1aSSICN PROJECT
Republican Sector orgsnization
---Number of-----------
SLOVE?~~~~~~~~~~~IA ~~~Execuating                                               Basic
S L O Y E N I A                                           Borrower            *     ncy            3 sti               k rsonael
Republic Commn ty
of Interest
ELEKTROGOSPODARSTVO
Workers' Council
General Manager
Development and Investments                      CO           -                  (JC
'    Power Operations                                                                               1                     117
Economic aad Financial 
Administration, Personnel 
SecretariaLt 
Dravske H.S. Maribor   |G,    WOAL                                                                     1L                    723
Velenje Ming/Eower                     G,M    WOAL                                                    18                  5,823
Sa-vke H.S. Llubljalana                 G,T   WOAL                           *4                                               243
Zasavje MIning/Power                   G,M   WOAL                                                     la                  4,832
4  S"ke R. S. H. GoicL             |CG,T   WOAL                                   _                         5                    264
j        T.S. Brestantca                    G     BOAL                                                      1                    298
Distribution Slovenia                       D     WOAL                                                     26                  4,229
E N.S. Krsto       |             G      BOAL                                                      1                    139
1                4                    77                 16,668
G a Generation
T Transmiasicn
M   Mining
D * Distribution



A U S T R i A      -   5   
-'''/  r  AGRtl!             <-  . t ?  :t                                    t                             <                                  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EC ANA
V Rie                                                                                                                                                                                AJTI \sNG~ \2
AU T i                              i, ..................K ..                                           , ,   ,.-    *ji,* ,,,,, ,, w,P - 
Mo_bo                                                          trZa/,\,,,                                                                                         72E
Podlog                         ,-q                                        
\~,                                                       'I   * ,   -   -    \  Bar , YUGOSLAVIA  {
K,_   I                                                        /S__  ?                                   ::b\                                         A  B: U :L G g 0 VI 
I...                     [\BUN                                                                                $jif                                                                              'ARJE..-'.    \    )  :A 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: A ''  /      \                \'                                             \          , -%,
\                                                                                              j /     oTAKYvi                /~_v   
A-A;                                                    AGREE                                                               .IA                                                                                         'A
511  '>NAT  3NOjE.ot P4DARIF                                                                                l    &         .    V   ; .  .    -   Ekovo
A-A-AA/OU                                                                *EATADAC                      NOVI  SAD
&BkGRAD]f VIII                                  EE nE
Banjo Luko                                                Ob'e'ovac B               ''
,ncrn     O~brenovc
N                                         >                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Krouievac
SARAJEVO                                                                                             "
Buk Bijela  -  e.11
r.~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                              *p,AI   ED,    59,0 IT El   -A  -   ......... ' 0l                                      P4DE              V
YUGOSLAVIA                                                         -,luoto                                                                                                                    )
SECOND PHASE OF THE 380kVp .ESEnna5-nK
TRANSMISSION  SYSTEM                                                                                                     Roann Rijekas
,,L1E  i.,;, EEEJ  1            PN    4>T rFebi.je                                                                                                                          '
'ES    3     0             A                                          7. E t3                                                                                 :: : . : l; : : 77 hTITOGRAD I
CC   4    V 'P SC 1>                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALBAN4A                        Negotino
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    



