Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1995 
Project Name 
Juba Rapid Impact Emergency Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Roads and highways (50%);Human Development (50%) 
Project ID 
P099226 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Southern Sudan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, Policy and Planning Unit 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X] B   ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 28, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 28, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 24, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
 
The strategic objective of the Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS) for this emergency project is to 
restore basic education and health needs and functionality of government. 
 
The strategic objective derives from severe isolation, shortage of supplies especially pharmaceuticals, text 
books, and office and communication equipment required to make the GoSS functional in Juba and in the 
10 States. 
 
Rationale for MDTF Involvement: 
 
The MDTF for the South was established to help finance the reconstruction and development of Southern 
Sudan.  It is a collaborative framework which brings together several of Sudan’s key development 
partners and provides a one stop point of contact and information on reconstruction and development 
effort for those of its partners providing assistance through the MDTF framework.  It is therefore an 
efficient way for Sudan to ensure good coordination of the development assistance it receives.  Also, the 
all the components of project with the exception of the accounting and auditing components are included 
in the approved Initial Project Proposals (IPPs) that have been approved by the Interim Oversight 
Committee.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project development objectives are to (i) restore livelihoods resulting from the long term civil unrest: 
(ii) ensure adequate supply of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies for existing basic health services for 
the population of Southern Sudan, particularly women and children: and (iii) jumpstart the recovery 
process in Southern Sudan through the emergency provision of goods and services to improve 
government functionality.  
 
At the completion of the project, it is expected that there would be: (i) improved student-textbook ratios, 
(ii) reduced stock outs of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, iii) connectivity between 10 states and 
National Government Offices in Juba, and (iv) furnished and equipped ministries.  
Page  2
3. Preliminary description 
 
4. 
The proposed project will have six (6) components:   Each component will be implemented in 
parallel. With the exception of Components 3 (Procurement Agent), the project is expected to be 
completed on or before by June, 30, 2006.  The project closing date will be March 31, 2008, however 
every effort will be made to complete the procurement, distribution and installation of Components 1, 2, 
5, and 6 by June 30, 2006.   
 
Component 1:    Supply and Distribution of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Consumables:  
 
US$ 6.1 million  
This component will support the procurement and distribution of 10 months supply of pharmaceuticals, 
vaccines, and medical consumables for the 15 hospitals, 117 health centers, and 280 health posts in 
Southern Sudan and a cold room for the Juba Central Pharmaceutical Warehouse.  The requirements for 
the first 4 months will be supplied in the form of medical kits and air freighted to Juba for distribution.  
Separate proposals to air freight and to send by sea/land the remaining 6 months of pharmaceuticals, 
vaccines, and medical consumables to Juba may be solicited.  
 
Justification:   
There is an acute shortage of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies throughout Southern Sudan.  The 
central pharmaceutical warehouse located in Juba does not have a cold room to adequately store vaccines 
and temperature sensitive medications.  The Emergency Package responds to several specific and urgent 
issues in the sector.  First, given the integration of the health systems in Juba, Malakal, Wau and other 
towns, the GoSS Ministry of Health is faced with an acute shortage of drugs and medical supplies as well 
as the need to strengthen pharmaceutical management systems.  Several hospitals, directly managed by 
the GoSS Ministry of Health in other areas, are also in need of immediate support.  In addition, a shortfall 
in drug supply for services supported by the USAID Health development program may have a significant 
impact on the overall system development effort.   
 
Component 2:    Supply & Distribution of Textbooks & Student and Teacher Kits: 
 
US$ 7.5 million  
This component will support the procurement and distribution of approximately 155,000 sets of Arabic 
Language textbooks, 8,000 teacher’s manuals and 15,000 student kits (UNICEF will provide separate 
funding for an additional 10,000 student kits) and 29,000 teacher’s kits for grades P1 – P4.  Originally the 
project was going to fund English Language Textbooks but this requirement will be covered by UNICEF 
under separate funding. The school kits have been developed by UNICEF.   
 
Justification:  
Although there was a delivery of textbooks to a number of schools in Southern Sudan in 
2003, the availability of textbooks is still very insufficient for grades P1 through P4 due to the prolonged 
war and the returning IDPs.  The next school year starts in March 2006 and therefore it is critical that the 
textbooks, and teacher’s manuals, in Arabic Language, teacher and student kits under go emergency 
procurement so they can be available for students of the school year. Even though the Minister of 
Education agrees that the eventual goal is to provide an English curriculum, it was agreed that Arabic 
Language textbooks would be supplied to primary schools to support education in the Arabic speaking 
communities and the returning IDP from Northern Sudan during the transition from the Arabic to English 
curriculum is completed. 
 
Component 3:    Procurement Agent:  US$ 3.0 million 
This component will support the contracting (mobilization, fees, reimbursables, etc.) of a consulting firm 
experienced in public procurement to work with the GoSS (MOF) to establish a Procurement Division, 
and review and revise, where necessary, the procurement regulations, policies and procedures governing 
Page  3
GoSS procurement activities and to carry out the day to day procurement activities of GoSS for a period 
of two years.  Annex 10 contains the draft TORs for the assignment. 
 
Justification: 
 The MOF needs urgent assistance in establishing the capacity of GoSS in the area of 
procurement.  GoSS does not currently have the capacity to carry out the day-to-day procurement 
activities nor develop the international commercially compliant procurement procedures necessary to 
ensure transparency and accountability in the procurement process. 
 
Component 4:  Project Accounting Firm:  US$ 0.5 million 
This component will support the sole source contracting (mobilization, fees, reimbursables, etc.) of a 
consulting firm (KPMG) experienced in project accounting to work with the GoSS (MOFEP) to establish 
the Project Disbursement Unit for a period of 6 
–
12
months until the long term project accounting agent 
is hired. This Unit will be responsible for preparing and issuing the Project Implementation Guidelines 
and accounting for all projects related expenditures that are either funded out of the MDTF or pooled with 
GOSS for a period of two years. It will take responsibility for providing fiduciary assurance to GoSS and 
MDTF regarding the use of funds during the period of the contract.  Annex 11 contains the draft TORs for 
the assignment. 
 
Justification: 
 Just emerging from a post conflict situation, the accounting capacity in MOFEP needs 
substantial strengthening. Until that capacity is built up, for an interim period of six to nine months, there 
is need to recruit an international accounting firm to provide accounting services as per international 
accounting standards and to provide fiduciary assurance until the long term project accounting agent is 
employed. Recruitment of this firm is critical as there is strong pipeline of projects funded by MDTF or 
pooled with GOSS that need to disburse in the near future.  
 
Component 5:    Support to the Ten States:   US$ 3.5 million 
This component will support the establishment of the governor’s office through basic renovations of the 
governor’s offices, providing basic office equipment, (computers and related equipment, copy machines, 
and a v-sat equipment).   
 
Justification:  
Emergency support is necessary to help with effective “start-up” of the state 
administrations. This is to ensure that the new state Governors and their administrations have the ability 
to communicate and interact with the central ministries in Juba and are supplied with the basic 
requirements to become functional.   
 
Component 6:    Furnish and Equip GoSS Offices:  US$ 5.5 million 
This component will support the initial procurement and installation of computers and related equipment, 
photocopiers, scanners, communication, including V-sat equipment, generators, vehicles, furniture to 
functionalize the GoSS offices.  The initial procurement will supply a basic package of furniture and 
equipment to enable approximately 90 Director level officials and 180 Deputy Directors in the offices of 
the President, Vice-President, and the 22 Ministries to become functional and communicate with the 
district governors as well as other ministries.   
 
Justification:  
The Government is not able to function efficiently due to lack of furniture, computer and 
related equipment, and communications.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Page  4
Only the Environmental Assessment - Safeguard Policy 4.01 will be triggered. 
 
There are a number of post conflict issues such as a lack of government institutions, procedures, 
legally defined rights, continuing conflicts in some areas, grievances arising from perceived lack of 
inclusiveness and equity that have the potential to undermine project activities and affect the 
distribution of goods procured under this project to the end users.  Social risks largely arising from 
differential access to benefits, traditional rights and entitlements, adequacy of targeting mechanisms, 
and varying public perception of benefits will be addressed through continuous monitoring of agreed 
social indicators.   
 
The components of the proposed project likely to generate any environmental impacts include: supply 
and disposal of pharmaceuticals and medical consumables and support to infrastructure of 10 States 
(renovation of office buildings). Based upon available information, the impacts are likely to be 
minimal, local in extent and readily assessed, mitigated and managed. Accordingly, the project is 
allocated a B impact category. Purchase of medical supplies and their disposal will in accordance 
with WHO guidelines and close monitoring by WHO specialists and supported by the development of 
a
comprehensive program for medical waste disposal under the forthcoming Bank-funded health care 
project to be appraised in 2006. Handling of any significant wastes during building renovation will 
need appropriate disposal of waste materials and the protection of the workforce in the event of 
asbestos removal or that of other toxic materials. A protocol to address possible asbestos removal will 
be applied during implementation. Only positive social impacts are expected to be generated by 
project components. 
 
Given the emergency conditions of the project, the most tractable way of achieving sound 
environmental management is through the adoption of the following actions: (a) adoption of the 
asbestos protocol within 6 months of effectiveness or prior to commencement of work involving 
removal of asbestos-containing material (typically concrete roofing, but sometimes partitions and 
insulation), whichever comes first; and; and, (b) immediate application of WHO guidelines and 
appropriate scheduling of the waste management plan to be developed under the Bank-funded health 
care project 
 
It is anticipated that the Environmental and Social Impacts of the project will be minimal and will result 
in sustainable outputs. Below is a table showing the possible impacts and mitigation interventions.  
 
Component 
Possible Impacts   
Mitigation Interventions 
Supply and 
Distribution  
of 
Pharmaceuticals  
Disposal of old   
Pharmaceuticals 
 
Security Risk  
Every effort will be made to distribute all medicines 
prior to their expiry date. Any left over supplies will 
be disposed of in accordance with WHO guidelines.  
A
comprehensive program for disposal of expired 
medicines (including an option for incineration) will 
be developed in the forthcoming on health project  to 
be appraised in 2006.  
Pharmaceuticals will only be delivered to health 
facilities in locations where UN Security is less than  
Level 4  
Supply and 
Distribution of 
Textbooks 
Security Risk  
Text books and kits will only be delivered to schools 
in locations where UN Security is less than  Level 4 
Procurement 
Agent 
No Impacts foreseen 
N/A 
Page  5
Support to 10 
States (office 
buildings) 
Appropriate disposal of 
construction materials/ 
rubble including asbestos 
and other potentially toxic 
materials if encountered: 
Security 
Addressed in a protocol that will be in place within 
6-months of effectiveness or prior to commencement 
of work involving asbestos removal. 
 
Renovations and Equipment will only be install 
schools in locations where UN Security is less than  
Level 4. 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 
    7.25 
SPECIAL FINANCING 
   20.0 
 Total 
27.25 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ronald P. Isaacson 
Title: Senior Operations Off.- AFC06 
Multi Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan 
World Bank 
Juba, 
Mobile - Juba (249)-91-239-8445 
Mobile - Kenya (254)-723-786-701 
Land - Kenya (254) 20 621-197 
Satellite: +8821 650 260 377 
 
