Report No. 1119b-IND                                                               F            COPY
Appraisal of a Transmigration and
Rural Development Project Indonesia
June 10, 1976
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performanc-e of their offi( ial duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be dis losed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Rupiah (Rp)
US$1                         Rp 415
Rp 1                         US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000           =     US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram  (kg)   =   1,000 grams (gm) = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton       =   1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)     =   10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Adat                   -  Body of traditional law
Agraria                -  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
Alang-alang            -  A coarse grass, establishing itself after the
slash and burn cycle
Bidan                  -  Nurse/midwife
Bina Marga             -  Directorate General of Highways
Bupati                 -  District Chief Executive
Dana Kesehatan Desa   -  Village Health Insurance Scheme
Departemen Kesehatan  -  Department of Health
Desa                   -  Village
Dokabu                 -  District Health Officer
Dukuh                  -  Sub-village grouping of 25-30 houses
Dukun                  -  Traditional midwife
Gabah                  -  Unthreshed rice
Gotong-royong          -  Community Self-Help Project
Hak Pakai              -  Individual's right of use or exploitation
of assigned land
Hak Pengelolaan        -  right to exploit land issued to Government
Agencies
Hak Penguasaan         -  controlling right, on assigned land, issue
to GOI Agency
Hak Milik              -  freehold title
Kabupaten              -  Rural District Government
Kecamatan              -  Sub-district
Marga                  -  Community grouping under Adat Law
Mantri                 -  Male Nurse
Puskesmas              -  Community Health Center
Promokesa              -  Village Health Promoter
GOI Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



- 2 -                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                    -  Asian Development Bank
AES                    -  Agro Economic Survey of Indonesia
ARD                    -  Agency for (Agriculture) Research and
Development
BAKOSURTANAL           -  National Coordinating Agency of Survey
and Mapping
BAL                    -  Basic Agrarian Law
BAPPEDAS               -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS               -  National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS                  -  Mass Guidance Program for Self-sufficiency
in Rice and Upland Crops
BRI                    -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BUUD                   -  Village level Business Enterprise
CP                     -  Cooperative Program
CRIA                   -  Central Research Institute for Agriculture
CRSR                   -  Center for Rural Sociology Research (Bogor)
DGFD                   -  Directorate General for Food Crop Development
DGLS                   -  Directorate General of Livestock Services
DGT                    -  Directorate General of Transmigration
DIP                    -  Project Budget Document (Daftar Isian Projek)
DOA                    -  Department of Agriculture
drc                    -  Dry rubber content
FAO                    -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI                    -  Government of Indonesia
IKES                   -  Provincial Health Administration
INPRES                 -  GOI Program for funding Provincial and
Kabupaten labor-intensive public works
projects
]PEDA                  -  Local Land Tax on Agricultural Production
JANTOP                 -  Topographic Mapping Service of the Army
KIK                    -  Credit Program for fixed assets for small
enterprise
KMKP                   -  Credit program for permanent working capital
for small enterprise
KUD                    -  Village level Co-operative
LPT                    -  Soils Research Institute of Agricultural
IJniversity, Bogor
MCH                    - Mlaternal and Child Health
Mil.                   -  Million
Msl.                   -  Minimum subsistence level
NIPP                   -  Nutrition Intervention Pilot Program
NECT                   -  National Expansion Committee for Transmigration
PEITTA I               -  First Five Year Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
PEITTA II              -  Second Five Year Plan.(1974/75-1979/80)
PKK                    -  Primary Hlealth Care Nurse
PMU                    -  Projert Management Unit
PNP                    -  State-owned Estate Enterprise
PT                     -  State-owned Corporation Operating under the
Commnercial Code with limited liability
UNICEF                 -  United Nations Childrens' Fund
USAID                 .- Unite(d States Agency for International
Development
WlO                    -  World liealth Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



ERRATA
Page #       Para #       Line #
7           2.16            2        ". .project which was presented.."
11           3.09            1        "    block-planted rubber .."
11           3.10          14         "... agencies .."
13           3.15           6         "    throughout the area.."
15           4.01(b)(i)      2        "    50 km of village roads.."
23           5.07           17        "    road construction.."
31           6.16            1        "... under contract.."
37           7.01            9        "... cropping patterns..."
44           8.15           17        "    safety against. "
48           9.04            2        "    a term of 25 years, including.."
Annex 17       l(a)            1        "    all export taxes.."



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............. ...    i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION  . ................. . ..... *                *   * *. ...*.... *    * ....  I
II.    BACKGROUND ... ..     ........  ...                      .*... *          ..*. * * * * * * * *  3
A.    General Economy  ....................o. o        * ....o.o....o. ...          3
B.    History of Transmigration               ............................         4
Co    Recent Experience  .................... ...........*.*....                   5
D.    Agricultural  Considerations                     ..........................   6
III.    PROJECT FORMULATION . ..  ..o....... ..... . .. . . .  ...........o.. . ......   .   8
A.    General Considerations  ... .. ... .... . . . . . . .  .... . . . .. . ..*..  8
B.    General  Standards  ...... .... ... .. . . ...  .....  ...........o.o....9   9
C .    The Project Area  .......         ........................0..*.......    12
D.    Environment Impact  .. ... .............o....... .                          13
IV.    THE PROJECT  .............o.................................                       15
A.    Summary   .e..    o..............         .    ................ooo..o.      15
B.    Detailed Features  ..o.................................                     16
V.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..- ......                 .....     .     ....        21
A.    Project Cost Estimates  ... ..................            o............     21
B.    Project Financing  ....             ...............................         22
C.    Budgeting  ... ............................. o....      ..o...... o. .6 ...... o  22
Do    Procurement  ......o.....oooooo.oo.o.             .o.....**.*..o.*           23
Eo    Disbursement ......................4o*                ..** .........        25
F.    Quality and Cost Controls  ...             ......oooo   ... oo....           26
G.    Accounting and tuditing  .... ... o .....o   ..........o                    27
H.    Cost Recovery   ............ .o..o . .............                          27
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .........o.......... ...........                      28
A.    Legal Framework  ..................            ..........*                  28
B.    The Directorate General of Transmigration   .ee.9o.oo                       28
C.    The Project Management Unit  .                .......   .   ...........     29
D.    Project  Implementation                                                     31
E.    Agricultural  Supporting Services                       ....                33
F.    Implementation Schedule                                                     35



-2-
Page No.
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM INCOMES ....................    37
A.   Introduction     ... . ...............* .....**.*.***    37
B.   Farm Models .                                                37
C.   Yield Projections                                  ....      37
D.   Marketing and Storage . ..        ........*    39
E.   Prices  .......................................**            39
F.   Farm Incomes                                                 40
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ...............41
A.   Development Objectives **. .o.* ..                ....    41
B.   Project Objectives               .........                   41
C.   Project Evaluation 41.. ..........41
D.   Conclusion  . ....   . .     .                               44
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .................    46
ANNEXES 1/
1.   Population, Migration and Rural Development
2.   History of Transmigration in Indonesia
3.   Agricultural Basis for the Future Transmigration Program
4.   Support for Forward Transmigration Program
* Attachment 1:    Terms of Reference
5.   Project Area Agricultural Development
6.   Livestock Development
* Attachment 1:    Terms of Reference - Livestock Adviser
7.   Project Rubber Development and PNP X
* Attachment 1:    Draft Terms of Reference - Rubber Inspection
Services
8.   Village Infrastructure
Attachment 1:    Transmigration Low-Cost Housing
9.   Health
10.   Roads and Transport
1/   On summary cost tables are presented:  all detailed cost table are in
the project file and are available on request.
*    Retained in project file - available on request.



- 3 -
11.   Organization and Management
* Attachment 1:    Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference
12.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Attachment 1:    Draft Terms of Reference - Settlement
Monitoring and Evaluation Studies
Attachment 2:    Draft Terms of Reference - Health Monitoring
and Evaluation
Attachment 3:    Draft Terms of Reference - Short-Term
Monitoring and Evaluation System
13.   *Micro-Urban Study:  Terms of Reference
14.   Disbursement Schedule
15.   Costs and Implementation Schedules 1/
16.   Marketing, Processing, Prices and Farmer Incomes
17.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
9346 (3R)     Transmigration Bodies Created in Presidential Decree #29, 1974
9423 (2R)     Organization Chart of Directorate General of Transmigration
15546 (R)      Organization Chart of Provincial Directorate of Transmigration -
Receiving and Settlement Areas
15547 (R)      Organization Chart of Typical Area of Origin Provincial Office
for Transmigration
15548 (2R)     Organization Chart - IBRD Project Managemnt Unit
15741          Organization of Provincial and District Medical Services
15742          Organization of Ministry of Health - National Level
FIGURES
9509          Village Plan Alternatives
9510 (R)      Hierachy of Village Groups
15675 (R)      Dukuh Principle and Dukuh Form
15676 (R)      Transmigrant Low-Cost House Plan - First Stage
MAPS
11316 (R)      Location of Project Area
11317 (R)      Way Abung Area
1/   Only summary cost tables are presented:  all detailed cost tables are in
the project file and are available on request.
*    Retained in project file - available on request.






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The most striking feature of Indonesia's economic and social geo-
graphy is that about 65% of its population of 130 million are concentrated on
the 'Inner Islands' of Java, Bali, Madura and Lombok which account for no more
than 7% of Indonesia's total land resources. At the same time that land use
in the Inner Islands is reaching, and in many areas exceeding the ecologically
safe limits, cultivable land resources in the 'Outer Islands' (Sumatera, Kali-
mantan, Sulawesi and Irian Jaya) amounting to as much as 40 million hectares
(20% of Indonesia's total land area) have remained underutilized. Current
economic planning recognizes that Indonesia's future agricultural development
will increasingly have to rely on the exploitation of the as yet underutilized
agricultural resources of the Outer Islands. In this context the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) views transmigration, the process of moving people from the
Inner Islands to the Outer Islands, as a means of providing the landless and
other rural poor of the 'Inner Islands' with land grants which, over time, offer
them the opportunity of full employment and increasing income. Simultaneously,
it initiates or reinforces regional development in the Outer Islands.
ii.       GOI has requested the Bank to assist with the formulation and imple-
mentation of its ongoing transmigration program. GOI desires to increase
the quantity and the quality of settlement achieved by this program and has
increased the budget of the Directorate of Transmigration (DGT). The involve-
ment of the Bank in this program has been designed to assist GOI to overcome a
number of constraints which presently limit the scale and impact of the program.
Recognizing that detailed formulation and implementation of an accelerated
transmigration program in line with GOI objectives require an opportunity for
testing of program costs, benefits and organizational arrangements, the pro-
ject would extend financial and technical assistance for the closely monitored
execution of two test schemes in upland areas of Southern Sumatera; i.e.,
a representative 22,500 ha new settlement scheme benefitting 4,500 Javanese
settler families; and the upgrading of a typical ongoing scheme involving a
30,000 ha area and 12,000 families. In parallel with the implementation of
these two test schemes, the project would assist program formulation by
funding technical studies of future settlement sites, by research into problems
of sustained annual cropping on upland soils of moderate fertility typical of
most potential transmigration areas of Sumatera, and by the preparation of
additional settlement schemes based on planning and implementation experience
in the two test schemes. This would be the 12th Bank Group assisted project
in support of agricultural development in the Outer Islands of Indonesia.
iii.      Government is aware, on the basis of recent experience, that the
planning and implementation of a greatly expanded settlement program requires
a capacity not presently available within DGT. The formulation of the project
would therefore test the alternative approach of DGT acting as a client body



- ii -
to and coordinator-director of a number of specialist contractors for all
phases of the settlement program. These contractors would be other GOI
agencies, public sector enterprises, local enterprises as well as foreign
contractors and consultants. The institution building would thus be mainly
aimed at developing within DGT the management expertise required for planning,
directing and coordinating the activities of a number of expert contractors
in all stages of settlement planning and implementation.
iv.       The new settlement at Baturaja was formulated to test an approach
to upland development which would enable Government to move families from
poverty situations on Java to upland areas in the Outer Islands where they
would be settled on land holdings which, after the initial years of farm
establishment, provide opportunities for substantial income growth through
settler effort and inputs, and immediate income and living standards at least
comparable with those which they now experience or prospectively would expe-
rience in their area of origin. Faced with the option of increasing the
initial investment on each farm to provide sufficient income to allow for cost
recovery, or to utilize the currently available resources to benefit a larger
number of settlers through a lower investment per family that would place on
the settler greater responsibility for initiative and activity in the clearing
and planting of his land grant, GOI has in its transmigration program chosen
to forego future GOI revenues from cost recovery in favor of wider distribu-
tion of its investment resources in the short-term. The nature of the avail-
able soils and the limited agricultural knowledge about the feasibility of
sustained annual cropping on these soils require that each of the 5 ha farms
include an assured income base in the form of 1 ha of block-planted rubber.
The self-help aspect of the design requires that each family be given suf-
ficient additional land (4 ha) to grow food crops with the choice to convert
some of that land to rubber, or other tree crops, at a later date.
v.        The formulation of the project component to upgrade the already
existing Way Abung settlement addresses problems which this area has in common
with many other ongoing transmigration projects. Past settlements were estab-
lished on 2 ha plots, following the general farm model which had been developed
for settlements which were to benefit from irrigation development. Because of
past lack of GOI funds or the questionable technical and economic feasibility
of irrigation development in some of the settlements, sizeable areas have been
left to dry land farming and are now economically depressed, as soil fertility
has declined drastically. The original investment in roads has deteriorated
and often the level of social services, especially schools and health facili-
ties, do not meet local provincial standards. A number of approaches to up-
grading these areas, which may comprise as much as 100,000 ha, are feasible
viz: (a) upgrade existing physical infrastructure especially with a view to
effecting marketing improvements; (b) upgrade and expand social services to
meet provincial standards; (c) conduct irrigation feasibility studies and,
where feasible, build the necessary infrastructure; and (d) introduce an agri-
cultural cropping system suitable to the soils. All the above options will
be pursued under the project with major emphasis on option (d).



- iii -
vi.       The major components of the proposed project are:
-    construction of 10 village centers with about 4,500 settler houses;
-    equipping and staffing of health and school facilities;
-    construction or upgrading of about 65 km of all-weather roads,
200 km of village roads, and about 280 km of farm tracks;
-    block-planting and maintenance of 7,000 ha of rubber;
-    distribution of about 9,500 head of draft cattle, and farm input
supplies for food crop production;
-    technical assistance in project implementation;
-    provisions for detailed project monitoring; and
-    technical support for the detailed formulation of future
transmigration projects covering about 200,000 ha designed
to benefit about 40,000 families.
vii.      The project would be executed over a ten-year period.  The Bank loan
would assist with the financing required over a five-year period. Total cost
for full implementatin of the project over ten years is estimated at about
US$70 million. The Bank would finance an amount equivalent to the foreign
exchange costs for the first five years of project implementation, estimated
at US$30 million. Through annual budget appropriations, GOI would fund all
local costs during the first five years (US$26 million). As the implementa-
tion of the test schemes would not be completed until the tenth year, the
total remaining costs, estimated at US$14 million, would be appropriated
annually by GOI until the project is completed.
viii.     Civil works for roads (US$9.2 million), villages and housing
(US$6.6 million), and agricultural support facilities (US$0.7 million) would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding to prequalified con-
tractors in accordance with GOI procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works contracts would generally be let on a village by village basis
as soon as specifications for each village and its associated roads are
completed. As the cost per village (US$1.0 million) is small, international
contractors are not expected to show any interest. There is adequate com-
petition among local contractors and foreign firms can participate. However,
because insufficient contractor's response or performance could endanger
completion of access roads which are essential for timely village con-
struction ahead of settler arrival, disbursement under the project would,
within limits, also allow for construction of roads on force account.
ix.       Block planting of 7,000 ha of rubber and its maintenance (US$10.7
million) would be carried out on the basis of a negotiated contract between
DGT and a qualified Government estate company (PNP X) since it involves the
execution of a specialized, integrated service which cannot be procured



- iv -
through a competitive bidding process. Monitoring and quality controls
established for PNP X's rubber plantings financed under IDA Credit 319-IND
have provided unit cost information on which contract negotiations will be
based. Supplies required for the execution of the contract would be procured
in accordance with current GOI regulations which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Fertilizers and chemicals (US$1.0 million) as well as vehicles and equipment
(US$1.5 million) would be procured by PNP X on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement.
x.        Livestock (US$1.9 million) would be procured locally mainly in
Java and Madura. General purchasing guidelines developed by DGT for use by
local purchasing agents were reviewed during negotiations. Depending upon
local supply conditions, DGT may find it necessary to import cattle in
order to meet project requirements. In this case procurement would take place
on the basis of at least three price quotations from suppliers of livestock in
countries free from foot and mouth diseases. Vehiles and equipment (US$3.7
million) would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Consultants and technical services (US$6.4 mil-
lion) would be engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Uses
of Consultants on terms and conditions approved by the Bank. Consultants'
services have been costed at US$60,000 per man-year (including housing allow-
ances, international travel and local transportation) on the basis of past
experience in Indonesia with similar consulting assignments. Contingencies
would amount to US$15.8 million, of which US$10.5 million would be for ex-
pected price increases during the five-year period.
xi.       GOI has requested retroactive financing in the total amount of about
US$1.0 million equivalent for surveys, vehicles and equipment and for civil
works in connection with the establishment of the first village in Baturaja
for which contracts have been awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding.
xii.      The project would be executed by a Project Management Unit (PMU)
headed by a project director, responsible directly to the Director General of
Transmigration. Two site managers, for Baturaja and Way Abung respectively,
have been appointed, DGT would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to
retain a qualified consulting firm to assist the PMU in the detailed planning
and implementation of the project.
xiii.     Since marginal land of the type which is to be developed in the
Baturaja and Way Abung project areas is representative of a major part of
Indonesia's as yet undeveloped land resources, the search for a cost effective
transmigration program which Indonesia could afford has to focus on the type
of upland development which is to be tested under this project. On the basis
of present knowledge the US$5,000 per family settlement package to be tested
in Baturaja constitutes the least cost approach relative to GOI's program
objectives. However, subject to the lessons to be learned through closely
monitored project implementation, cost reductions in future replication of
such upland settlements may turn out to be possible, especially if sustained
food cropping on these marginal lands is proven feasible.



xiv.      The economic rate of return is estimated at about 11% for the pro-
posed new upland settlement of Baturaja and at about 19% for settlement up-
grading at Way Abung; this latter rate of return reflects the level of sunk
investment in farm establishment and physical infrastructure. The non-quanti-
fiable benefits include improved health and nutritional status of the settlers,
and the multiplier effects on the regional economy of local capital formation
and increased levels of consumption expenditure. It has not been possible to
estimate the Government expenditures which would have to be made to maintain
and improve standards of rural welfare in the area of settler origin in the
absence of resettlement and which represent avoided costs. Likewise it
has not been possible to quantify the benefits which accrue in the area of
origin due to the alleviation of population pressure on scarce resources
including land. Studies to be executed under this project would allow a
closer examination of these transmigration benefits in the evaluation of
future schemes and programs.
xv.       The project would benefit the economy of Indonesia directly in
terms of employment and income creation, increased food production and rubber
exports, and benefits to the areas of settler origin in Java. It would also
add to the infrastructure base for regional development of Southern Sumatera.
The benefits of the project would accrue to transmigrants whose present and
expected future incomes in the area of origin would be clearly below the
relative, if not absolute poverty line. The distributional impact of the
project is therefore clearly favorable.
xvi.      Subject to the assurances and conditions of loan effectiveness
detailed in Chapter IX below, the proposed project is suitable for a loan
of US$30 million, for a term of 25-years including a six year grace period.
The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested the Bank to assist
with the formulation and implementation of its ongoing transmigration pro-
gram.
1.02      GOI desires to increase the quantity and the quality of settlement
achieved by this program and has increased the budget of the Directorate
General of Transmigration (DGT). It has also sought technical assistance
for project preparation and for general program administration from UNDP.
1.03      The involvement of the Bank in this program has been designed to
assist GOI to overcome a number of constraints which presently limit the scale
and impact of the program. Recognizing that detailed formulation and imple-
mentation of an accelerated transmigration program in line with the objectives
set in Pelita II require an opportunity for testing of program costs, benefits
and organizational arrangements, the project would extend financial and tech-
nical assistance for the closely monitored implementation of two test schemes
in Southern Sumatera; i.e., a representative 22,500 ha settlement scheme bene-
fitting 4,500 Javanese settler families; and the upgrading of a typical on-
going scheme involving a 30,000 ha area and 12,000 families. In parallel with
the implementation of these two test schemes, the project would assist the
longer-term program formulation by funding technical studies of future settle-
ment sites, by research into problems of sustained annual cropping on upland
soils of moderate fertility typical of the potential transmigration areas of
Sumatera, and by the preparation of additional settlement schemes based on
planning and implementation experience in the two test schemes. Together with
GOI's ongoing effort to formulate, with assistance from UNDP/FAO, IBRD and
bilateral sources, a settlement program for tidal lands in Sumatera and Kali-
mantan, this project would provide GOI with the technical and organizational
base to utilize external capital aid in support of its ambitious programs of
settlement in the Outer Islands. GOI will rely upon the recently approved
National Mapping Project (Ln. 1197-IND) to carry out the urgently needed
inventory and broad, comparative evaluation of land resources still available
for settlement.
1.04      The project is based on a feasibility study prepared by GOI, with
assistance from the IBRD/FAO Cooperative program and the UNDP during 1973
and 1974. A mission comprising Messrs. Lesueur, Berman, Friedlander, Panton,
Van Dijck (Bank), Macartney and Pineu (FAO/CP) and Patten (Consultant) com-
menced field appraisal of the project in November 1974. However further pro-
ject preparation was found to be required and was carried out by consultants
retained by DGT with financing to be retroactively provided under the project.
Appraisal was completed in September 1975 by a mission comprising Messrs.
Lesueur, Storrar, Berman, Hewson, Koch-Weser, Van Dijck (Bank), and Nicholson
(Consultant).



1.05      This would be the 12th Bank Group assisted project in support of
agricultural development in the Outer-Islands of Indonesia. Three of these
projects concentrated mainly on the rehabilitation of government rubber and
oil palm estates in Sumatera and one (Cr. 358 - North Sumatera Smallholder
Development) was designed to test alternative approaches to improvement of
smallholder rubber production. Other Bank assisted projects with major
impact on agricultural development activities in the Outer Islands are:
-    Beef Cattle Development Project (Cr. 335) in South Sulawesi
and Sumba;
-    Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Ln. 1179) with
Rubber Research located in Sumatera;
-    Irrigation Projects (Cr. 127 and 220) for irrigation develop-
ment in Lampung and South Sulawesi;
-    Fisheries Projects (Cr. 211 and Cr. 480) for fisheries develop-
ment in North Sulawesi and Ambon;
-    National Resource Survey and Mapping Project (Ln. 1197) which
among others would inventory and evaluate the Outer Island
land resources still available for agriculture and settlement.
Highway and shipping improvements financed through Bank Group loans and
credits have also been supportive of the development of the rural economy
in the outer-islands.



- 3 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General Economy
2.01      The most striking feature of Indonesia's economic and social geo-
graphy is that about 65% of its population of 130 million are concentrated on
the 'Inner Islands' of Java, Bali, Madura and Lombok which account for no more
than 7% of Indonesia's total land resources. With an average of 9 to 10
persons per cultivated hectare, the rural economy of the Inner Islands taxes
the carrying capacity of the land to its limits. At the same time that land
use in the lnner Islands is being extended in many areas well beyond the eco-
logically safe limits, cultivable land resources in the 'Outer Islands'
(Sumatera, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Irian Jaya) amounting to as much as 40
million hectares (20% of Indonesia's total land area) have remained underuti-
lized. Current economic planning recognizes that in parallel with the further
intensification of production on the more suitable lands in the Inner Islands,
Indonesia's future agricultural development will increasingly have to rely on
the exploitation of the as yet underutilized agricultural resources of the
Outer Islands.
2.02      The GOI views transmigration, the process of moving people from the
Inner Islands to the Outer Islands, as a means of providing the landless and
other rural poor of the "Inner Islands" with land grants which, over time,
offer them the opportunity of full employment and increasing income. Simul-
taneously it initiates or reinforces agricultural development in the Outer
Islands. GOI desires to step up the transmigration program to maximize its
contribution to the alleviation of problems of over-population and rural
poverty on the islands of Java, Madura and Bali where the population is
growing by 2 to 3 million people annually. Additional strategies for rural
employment creation on Java, and the impact of current trends in population,
migration and on-farm labor opportunities on the projected levels of under-
employment have been examined in Annex 1. A full, separate report is under
preparation.
2.03      Indonesia's per capita GNP is estimated at $130 in 1973, and the
current plan aims to double this over the next ten to fifteen years. It
is estimated that some two-thirds of the populaton, about 75 million people
live at or close to absolute poverty level (as measured by an adequate daily
caloric and protein intake).
2.04      An economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia - Development Aspects
and Needs," of April 15, 1975 (708-IND), described and analyzed the structure
of production and incomes, the changes in the availability of resources and
the medium- and longer-term outlook for the Indonesian economy.   A more re-
cent report is entitled "Public Sector Investment and Financial Resources in
Indonesia" dated May 24, 1976 (1187-IND). The main findings of that report
are summarized in the accompanying President's Report.



-4-
B. History of Transmigration
2.05      Organized migration of people from Java to Sumatera began in 1905
(Annex 2). The program, which was based on developing irrigation schemes for
transmigrants, had limited success due to limited suitability of the soil for
food crop production, disease (malaria and dysentery), competition from
plantations for labor, and difficulties of providing adequate agricultural
inputs to these remote areas.
2.06      Transmigration gained momentum in the 1930's and reached a level
of about 10,000 families in 1940. Each settler received 3/4 ha of land
suitable for irrigated rice and 1/4 ha house plot; little better than sub-
sistence levels of income were achieved. This, together with the tendency
for settlers to be socially isolated, the lack of maintenance of irrigation
works, and problems of the Second World War, caused serious setbacks to
the program which did not resume until the early 1950's.
2.07      Since World War II three distinct forms of migration from Java to
the Outer Islands have been recognized:
(a) Government-sponsored migrants - GOI meets transportation costs
to a GOI planned settlement scheme;
(b) Government-assisted migrants - who meet their own transportation
costs to a GOI planned settlement scheme; and
(c) Other migrants - who move in pursuit of employment on estates
and on construction projects and who, upon expiration of their
contracts, settle at their own cost outside GOI settlement schemes.
The social composition of these categories of transmigrants does not differ
significantly; by far the majority are subsistence farmers or landless
laborers from Java.
2.08      Reliable figures for transmigration are not available especially
for unassisted migrants who may exceed GOI sponsored or assisted migrants by
two to four times. Official figures show that for the period 1950-73 about
100,000 families were settled either as sponsored or assisted migrants or an
average of about 4,000 families per year.
2.09      In the absence of any monitoring or evaluation of the ongoing pro-
gram, the success of the transmigration program, expressed in terms of an
increase in the settler families' net income is difficult to measure. However,
observations in a large number of schemes in which the initially envisaged
development of irrigation infrastructure has been delayed, or did not prove
technically or economically feasible, indicate only modest improvement in
settler incomes over those in the areas of origin. Without irrigation dev-
elopment the rainfed cultivation of the often marginal land which has been
allocated in 2 ha holdings poses difficult problems in settlement upgrading.



- 5 -
C. Recent Experience
2.10      In the 1974-79 Five-Year Plan (Pelita II), GOI is emphasizing the
importance of the transmigration program to its agricultural production, and
regional development strategies. The plan requires that settlers should ac-
hieve incomes higher than would be possible in the settlers' areas of origin.
GOI initially proposed to re-settle 250,000 families during Pelita II, rising
from 30,000 families in 1974 to 70,000 families per year by 1979. Recent
experience has indicated that it will be difficult to reach this target; seven
thousand families were settled in 1974/75, and the target for 1975/76 has been
reduced to 8,000. The overall target has recently been reduced to 87,000
families. As the land available for transmigration increasingly requires the
more difficult establishment of the settlements on uplands or tidal lands
Government has come to recognize the limited capability to plan and execute
such schemes as one of the most serious limiting factor in the execution of
a larger transmigration program commensurate in size with Indonesia's rural
and regional development needs.
2.11      Settler Supply:  GOI reports long waiting lists of applicants for
resettlement, and the steady stream of non-assisted or 'spontaneous' migrants
into the Southern Sumatera provinces is further evidence that the supply of
transmigrants is not a limiting factor to the program. In addition, reservoir
development in Java is estimated to require the resettlement of 10,000 to
15,000 families over the course of the next decade. Volcanic eruptions on Java
and Bali have also in the past made it necessary to move entire villages from
the densely populated danger zones on the fertile slopes of the volcanic cones
to settlements in the Outer Islands. Given the high risk of renewed volcanic
activity on the densely populated islands of Java and Bali, the transmigration
program must also be viewed as a standby against this contingency. Settler
selection criteria are outlined in Annex 2.
2.12      Supply of Land:  Transmigrants are being settled on land alienated
to GOI from the community lands of the indigenous populations. On the basis
of Adat law, 1/ land rights are vested in the marga 2/ and individual members
of the community do not exercise any individual ownership. The Basic Agrarian
Law (BAL), enacted in 1960, recognizes the marga's right of disposal, but sti-
pulates that the exercise of ths right must "conform with the national interest
of the State based on national unity." In practice, alienation for transmigra-
tion schemes takes place after negotiations between GOI and the marga leaders.
As these leaders often tend to be more knowledgeable of the quality of their
lands than the negotiating GOI officials, the best land is generally not
secured for transmigrants. This system of settlement area "selection" tends
to accentuate the agricultural constraints noted below.
1/   Adat is a system of traditional legal and religious laws, deeply
embedded in Indonesian society, but differing from region to region.
2/   The traditional community grouping as recognized under Adat Law.



-6-
D. Agricultural Considerations
2.13      Government plans to expand the size of the transmigration program
will have to take account of a number of agricultural constraints which are
briefly set out below:
2.14      Upland Development:  In Sumatera and Sulawesi most fertile and
readily accessible lands suitable for irrigated or rainfed annual cropping
have now been taken up. Areas which constitute the few known exceptions,
e.g., areas in Jambi Province, are already the subject of detailed study and
project preparation. In Kalimantan, development is hindered by poor access
and rather infertile soils (Annex 3). The remaining upland areas available
for transmigrants are those which have been bypassed or abandoned by local
cultivators after a period of slash and burn cultivation. They usually ex-
hibit some technical constraints which limit the ease with which, or the
extent to which, they can be brought into sustained food crop production. On
the basis of present knowledge, only tree crops, such as rubber and oil palm,
are suitable for continuous utilization of these upland soils.
2.15      Within the predominating red/yellow podsolic soil group, the
available upland sites have wide variations in land capability. On most,
sustained production of rice, maize, and legumes such as beans and groundnuts,
depends heavily upon maintaining or increasing soil fertility and improving
soil physical condition. Technical inputs to achieve this are known though
untested on anything but small-scale under tropical conditions. Composting,
green manuring, crop rotation and the use of fertilizer and animal manures
could be used for soil amelioration. However, the technical and economic
feasibility of sustained annual cropping on these soils remains yet to be
established. By contrast, high yielding technology for the cultivation of
perennials such as rubber and oil palm is readily available. Nevertheless,
Government considers it of utmost importance that the formulation of settle-
ment projects for upland areas include provision for mixed farming. Government
argues correctly that a solution to the technical problems of sustained food
cropping on the low fertility upland soils needs to be found to meet the sub-
sistence requirements of settlements based on slow-maturing tree crops during
the initial years of settlement, to avoid the establishment of a regional
rural economy which is dependent on the monoculture of an export crop subject
to wide price fluctuations and to formulate a transmigration program which
Indonesia can afford. Accordingly, the development of food cropping systems
suitable for transmigrants to the upland areas is given highest priority and
will be addressed under the proposed project.
2.16      Swamp and Tidal Land Development:  In the tidal and swamp areas
of the outer islands some success is being achieved with rice cultivation
through provision of some drainage and with tidal irrigation on selected
sites. Existing schemes on the better delta soils produce one rainfed rice
crop each year, and although initial yields are high, even without fertilizers
and other inputs, there are likely to be problems in sustaining yields. Other



sites with peat and acid sulphate soils will be more difficult and costly to
develop. The seventh Bank-financed irrigation project which is to be presented
to the Board in May 1976 includes funds for feasibility studies of tidal land
reclamation for paddy production by smallholder settlers in the Provinces of
Jambi and South Sumatera.



III. PROGRAM FORMULATION
A. General Considerations
3.01      Against the background described above, the Bank has been requested
by GOI to assist in redesigning and expanding the transmigration program
through the financing of a Transmigration and Rural Development Project. The
project components (Chapter IV) have been formulated to alleviate the program
constraints outlined above. The nature of the constraints requires that the
proposed test schemes be of a scale which allows a realistic examination of the
agricultural and administrative constraints without recourse to intensive forms
of on-farm investment and project management which could not be replicated in
the implementation of a larger program. Three major components have been for-
mulated as full-scale tests: (i) planning and implementation of a new settle-
ment for 4,500 families on 22,500 ha near Baturaja; (ii) upgrading of an exist-
ing settlement area of 30,000 ha at Way Abung, containing 12,000 families;
and (iii) technical support for the detailed formulation of a future program
covering about 200,000 ha and designed to benefit about 40,000 families.
3.02      To ensure replicability, new settlement design, upgrading, and imple-
mentation must rely on normal GOI services and agencies, at standards prevail-
ing at the present and adaptable to improvements planned for these services in
the future. Initially, higher levels of these services would be concentrated
in "central places" in each settlement (Annex 8, Chart I and Figure 9510) to
achieve economies in the delivery systems. Major access roads would be de-
signed to general Bina Marga standards, while standards for village access
roads have been adapted for local traffic conditions; school facilities, both
in number and standard, would reflect the target levels of service set by
Pelita II. Health services would be designed to test the village health
delivery system which Government envisages as suitable for broader replica-
tion under Pelita III. Other social service buildings, e.g., Mosque, Com-
munity Center, etc., would be built to allow for a maximum of future gotong-
royong 1/ improvements. Similarly, initial on-farm investments by Govern-
ment have been limited to the minimum levels required to assist the settler
in initial farm establishment. However, the size of the land grant (5 ha)
and the agricultural supporting services to be provided will ensure that
the settler, through his own investments and effort, can improve and enlarge
his income earning base.
3.03      The planning, coordination and implementation of a greatly expanded
settlement program require a capacity not presently available in DGT. The
future program would outstrip DGT's ability to find and train the necessary
manpower. The formulation of the project would therefore test the alterna-
tive approach of DGT acting as a client body to and coordinator-director of a
number of specialist contractors for all phases of the settlement program.
These contractors would be other GOI agencies, public sector enterprises,
I/   Gotong-royong:  voluntary community self-help.



- 9 -
local enterprises as well as foreign contractors or consultants. The insti-
tution building within DGT would mainly be aimed at developing with DGT the
management expertise required for planning, processing, directing and
coordinating the activities of a number of expert contractors in all stages
of settlement planning and implementation.
B. General Standards
3.04      Settlement Design Standards:  In order to reduce initial settlement
costs, settlement design for Baturaja sub-project places great reliance on
gotong-royong for subsequent improvements to minor roads and buildings for
social services in the village centers. Low-cost settler housing has been
designed on a core-shell concept (Figure 15676) to provide adequate shelter
with allowance for self-constructed expansion. Gotong-royong activity requires
a sense of community, which in a new settlement situation must be deliberately
fostered. Village design would do this through the use of the traditional
cluster of houses, or dukuh, of 25-30 families (Figure 15675), which would form
the basic social units of the village. The basic scheme envisages that village
layout would be linear, 1/ on a linked set of dukuhs, thereby allowing each
settler to live in a dukuh on his 0.2 ha house plot, with land used for annual
crops close by, and with separate rubber land, no more than 1.5 km from the
house. The dispersed or nuclear plan alternatives would require excessive
walking distances either between the house lot and the farm lands, or the house
lot and village center: by contrast, the linear village with walking distances
planned to average about 2.5 km would encourage community services and market
development at the village center.
3.05      Health Services:  Attitude surveys in settlement areas have shown
that one of the major concerns of new settlers is adequate health care. The
health care delivery systems in the transmigration areas have been designed to
encourage maximum community participation through the development of village
health committees, with volunteers to be trained as village health promoters
(Promokesa), and possibly the development of Village Health Insurance Schemes
(Dana Kesehatan Desa). This community participation would contribute directly
to maintaining a low-cost delivery system, allowing the available budget re-
sources to be allocated to skilled staff, drugs and specialized equipment.
3.06      However, the health delivery system being introduced into the settle-
ment areas is a more extensively community-based system than has previously
been introduced elsewhere by the Department of Health, and would act as a test
for future low-cost community-based health systems for larger scale replica-
tion. The level of service provided, therefore, in the transmigration areas,
would be subject to a monitoring and evaluation study to determine the succes-
ses and weaknesses in its design.
1/   Figure 9509 and Annex 8 show the village layout plan alternatives;
dispersed, nucleated or linear.



- 10 -
3.07      On-Farm Development:  The size of the land grant, the proposed farm
plan, the level of grant aid provided to each settler family for farm estab-
lishment, and the agricultural support services program to be established
under the project was guided by the following major considerations:
(a) the land grant should afford the settler family the oppor-
tunity for self-sustained growth of per capita income roughly
in line with the projected growth of Indonesia's agricultural
sector;
(b) in line with the GOI decision that there should be no cost
recovery from transmigrants, the grant aid provided to the
settler should be kept to the minimum, with reliance on
appropriate term lending and support services programs for
subsequent on-farm development, especially of tree crops;
(c) the settlement project as a whole should be economically
viable and, with appropriate shadow pricing and allowance
for subsequent, loan-supported on-farm development, the
rate of return to the investment should not be less than
10%;
(d) the farm unit should be viable even if the expectation that
food cropping can contribute one-fourth to one-third of
family income should be proven wrong.
3.08      Based on these considerations, the Baturaja project would provide
each settler family with a land grant of 5 ha. In addition to the establish-
ment of a small (0.2 ha) intensively cultivated house garden, the basic farm
plan envisages that each family practices a relatively extensive form of
annual food cropping. This would involve an input-intensive adaptation of
the traditional slash and burn rotation system, annually utilizing about 0.5
ha of land in a total area of 2 to 3 ha. Cattle would have to be introduced
into this rotation farming system to provide draft power and to maintain soil
fertility through use of cattle manure and composting, in addition to inor-
ganic fertilizers. The 1.5 ha to 2.5 ha annually under fallow would be
planted to a legume fodder crop, both to improve soil fertility of the land
under fallow and to produce cattle feed. This proposed food cropping system
has been subject to small-scale intensive management experiments but has not
yet been tested on the scale now proposed. Research to be funded under this
project, together with extension advice and annual input supplies available
under the project, would support these large-scale tests of the food cropping
system. Monitoring of the project's annual development would give indications
of any intervention or change in design that might be necessary.
3.09      Under the Baturaja project, 1 ha of each settler's 5 ha allocation
would be planted to rubber on project account. Rubber would provide regular
income and employment thereby lowering the risk to the farmer of losses from
failure in annual cropping. Depending upon the productivity of the food
cropping system to be introduced under the project settlers may move towards
the loan-financed establishment of additional tree crops on their holdings as



- 11 -
the block-painted rubber comes into tapping and improves their credit-
worthiness. Consequently, the first six years of planting, fertilizing and
maintenance are crucial to ensuring that the rubber yields finally attained
do provide a sufficient economic base for subsequent on-farm development.
The rubber development would therefore be contracted to a dependable contrac-
tor who would be required to supply planting material and supervise and train
the settlers in all aspects of rubber planting, maintenance, fertilizer re-
quirements, tapping and production. The use of such a contractor would have
the additional advantage of creating wage employment for the settlers during
the period when there would be no income-from rubber and the limited food
production from annual cropping would have to be supplemented by off-farm
employment to meet the family's minimum needs.
3.10      Agricultural Support Services:  Food cropping in new settlement
areas would require the agricultural support services normally developed by
GOI in rural areas, viz: agricultural extension, agricultural credit, the
BIMAS program (para. 4.11) and agricultural cooperatives for input supplies,
product processing and marketing. The increased level of these services
throughout Indonesia during Pelita II would complement the expanded Trans-
migration program, making it unnecessary in the long term for DGT to utilize
its own limited staff or resources to provide these services. However, be-
cause of the crucial importance of these services for settler welfare and
long-term viability of the scheme, it will be necessary for DGT to supplement
the services available in the settlement areas until the relevant agencies can
reach an adequate staffing level to replace DGT staff. Because of the test
aspects of the new settlement to be funded under this project, DGT would
initially staff some of these services in the area, and the normal GOI agenies
would take over the administration of these services after the final nature
and levels of these services have been determined through the monitoring and
evaluation studies and adjusted appropriately.
3.11      Upgrading Existing Settlement Areas:  In Lampung province, past
settlements were established on 2 ha plots, following the general farm model
which had been developed for settlements which were to benefit from irrig-
ation development. Because of past lack of GOI funds or the physical infeasi-
bility of some sites, sizeable areas have remained as dry land farms and are
now economically depressed, as soil fertility had declined drastically. The
original investment in roads has deteriorated and often the level of social
services, especially schools and health facilities, do not meet local provin-
cial standards. A number of approaches to upgrading these areas, of which
there may be as much as 100,000 ha, are feasible viz: (i) upgrade existing
physical infrastructure especially with a view to effecting marketing improve-
ments; (ii) upgrade and expand social services to meet provincial standards;
(iii) conduct irrigation feasibility studies and, where feasible, build the
necessary infrastructure; and (iv) introduce an agricultural cropping system
suitable to the soils. All the above options could be undertaken by DGT in
the proposed upgrading of the Way Abung settlement with major emphasis on
option (iv). Depending upon the outcome of a detailed land capability and
cadastral survey to be carried out under the project, Government may also
consider the allocation of additional land to the Way Abung settlers.



- 12 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.12      As both project components involving settlement areas are designed
as test schemes, the project would support monitoring and evaluation studies
to signal timely ameliorative action, if certain parts of the project should
prove less feasible than expected at appraisal, to assess the outcome of
the test schemes and to indicate the changes required in future settlement
area design.
Program Assistance
3.13      Basic to the design of any new settlement area are sound topo-
graphical, soil, hydrological and agricultural assessments of each area's
potential. For about 200,000 ha of future settlement the project would assist
with the development of this technical data and with its analysis and trans-
lation idto settlement design.
C. The Project Area
New Settlement - Baturaja
3.14      A gross area of about 60,000 ha bordering on the trans-Sumatera
highway between Baturaja and Martapura (Map 11316), in the Province of South
Sumatera will serve as the test area for new upland settlement. The area is
typical of the underutilized land available for future transmigration; the low
to moderate fertility red/yellow podsolic soils are in many places exhausted
and eroded through many years of slash and burn cultivation and are now covered
with alang-alang 1/ and some forest regrowth. The topography is undulating to
rolling, with gently rounded hill tops. The area is deeply dissected by nar-
row, small ravines which carry seasonal streams. A reconaissance soil survey
indicates that slopes on the valley sides vary from 8-15%. The climate, simi-
lar to the rest of Southern Sumatera, averages an annual total rainfall of
2,800 mm with a dry season of about four months from July to October when
rainfall still averages about 150 mm per month. Temperatures average about
25 0C. Prospects for shallow groundwater are not good except in the valley
bottoms; deeper boreholes may yield a reliable water supply and a drilling
program is currently ongoing. Alternatively, small earth dams on the streams
in the project area could be used to augment the village water supply which,
in the first instance, will be obtained by rainwater collection off the roof
of the settler's house (Figure 15676).
Settlement Upgrading - Way Abung
3.15      About 12,000 families have been settled on 2 ha plots in a 30,000
ha area at Way Abung, near Kota Bumi, on the trans-Sumatera highway in Lampung
1/   A coarse grass (Imperata cylindrica) which follows slash and burn
cultivation.



- 13 -
Province (Map 11317). The soils are deep red/yellow podsolic. They are less
erodable and more friable and easily worked than in Baturaja, but with similar
low natural fertility. Climatic and rainfall conditions are similar to Batu-
raja. The topography is relatively flat to gently undulating with slopes
rarely more than 8%. Surface water is plentiful with perennial streams;
groundwater is found throughout the a area at a maximum depth of about 6
meters. Stands of secondary forest and alang-alang cover the areas not under
cultivation.
3.16      This settlement area has been developed in stages over the last eight
years and was initially intended as an irrigated farming area. The limited
development of irrigation which has so far taken place reflects both past lack
of funds as well as the questionable technical and economic feasibility of
large-scale irrigation development in this settlement area. The roads are
almost impassable in the wet season, and some physical facilities - schools,
health services and agricultural services have not been developed to the
planned levels. On average, the settlers have so far managed to clear and
crop only about half of their 2 ha holdings. Because of inadequate fertilizer
use, the initially poor soils are now further degraded, and settlers are ex-
periencing severely declining yields after a few years of continuous annual
cropping. Even in villages where BIMAS fertilizer is available, little yield
improvement has been realized and repayment of production credit is poor.
Seed Farm and Nursery
3.17      A two hundred hectare area would be set aside in the Baturaja area
for production of seeds and planting materials for food crops and house
gardens. An area of 100 ha typical of the project area and of future settle-
ment areas to the northwest of Baturaja would be developed nearby for use by
The Agency for (Agricultural) Research and Development (ARD), 1/ through its
Central Research Institute for Agriculture (CRIA), for trial/demonstration
purposes.
D. Environmental Impact
3.18      The introduction of rubber which would be planted on the more
strongly sloping areas would arrest erosion. Trials will also be undertaken
with forestry species suitable for firewood where rubber cannot be planted
owing to adverse soil or slope conditions. During the establishment of rubber,
before the trees have developed a protective canopy, erosion would be reduced
through the planting of a legume cover crop. This cover crop would have the
secondary benefit of competing with the alang-alang. However, weeding prac-
tices would have to be observed to maintain control over the alang-alang. On
the steeper slopes rubber would be planted on terraces. The settlers would
be trained in soil conservation practices during their period of employment on
rubber maintenance. In the physical planning of the settlements a 15 meter
1/   Supported through the Indonesia Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (Ln-1179 IND).



- 14 -
wide strip along rivers and larger streams will be retained under natural
vegetation.
3.19      Malaria is endemic in the settlement areas.  A malaria control
program currently in operation in the provinces would be expanded and im-
proved. Village sanitation would be safeguarded through the provision of
pit latrines. The staff of the Health Service would include Village Health
Promoters, to provide health extension in the fields of environmental sani-
tation, water treatment, and general hygiene.



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary
4.01      The Bank would assist the transmigration program with a project
consisting of:
I.   Implementation of two test schemes:
(a) New Settlement at Baturaja
(i)  construction of 10 village centers with about 4,500
settler houses;
(ii)  equipping and staffing health and school facil-
ities in each village;
(iii)  construction of approximately 15 km of all-weather
roads, 110 km of village roads, and about 280 km of
farm tracks;
(iv)  block-planting 4,500 ha of rubber and maintenance
for six years;
(v) distribution of about 4,500 head of cattle, fertilizer
inputs and seeds to support food crop production on
about 2,250 ha (1/2 ha per farm);
(vi)  provision of water supply and sanitation facilities;
(vii)  establishment and staffing of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services; and
(viii)  distribution of food and other essential commodities
during the first year of settlement in accordance with
DGT's existing distribution programs.
(b) Settlement Upgrading at Way Abung
(i) construction of approximately 50 km of all weather road,
and 50 km of vilage roads, with upgrading of a further
50 km of roads;
(ii)  block planting of about 2,500 ha of rubber with six
years of maintenance, to benefit about 5,000 settlers
with holdings of uplands clearly unsuited for future
irrigation development;



- 16 -
(iii)  distribution of about 5,000 head of cattle to those
settlers who have not yet participated in the DGT
cattle scheme;
(iv)  expansion of agricultural credit, extension and
cooperative facilities in 20 villages;
(v)  construction of 4 secondary schools;
(vi)  health facilities and staff for 22 villages; and
(vii)  feasibility studies and preparation of detailed
engineering plans for irrigation facilities.
(c)  Technical assistance in the implementation of the two test
schemes.
II.  Settlement Area Studies
(a)  Monitoring and Evaluation Studies to determine the
success of the new settlement plans, the agricultural
techniques, and the health delivery system employed
in these test schemes.
(b)  Project Studies of alternative farm management systems,
especially as regards annual cropping patterns, the
role of livestock and the potential role of different
forms of mechanization; Social and Regional Studies
to determine the impact of transmigration schemes on
regional development in the settlement area and on
rural development in areas of settler origin.
III. Program Support:
(a)  Expansion of DGT's planning capability through technical
assistance for identification, survey and initial
preparation of 200,000 ha for future settlements;
(b)  Research and testing of viable food cropping patterns
for the red/yellow podzolic soils; and
(c)  Holding areas for cattle, established and operated
in strategic locations to serve a distribution program
for future settlement areas.
B. Detailed Features 1/
4.02      The detailed features of the proposed project are presented
below for the major components.
1/   Project costs in Part B are quoted in constant 1976 prices and exclude
physical contingencies.



- 17 -
Physical Development
4.03      Village Centers (total cost $1.2 million); Ten villages would be
built in Baturaja to accommodate 4,500 settler families. The village centers
would include a primary school, health post, mosque, community center, market,
offices for BRI and KUD's civil and project administration and staff housing.
Higher levels of these basic services would be distributed among the village
centers to create a rational hierarchy based on location and proxioiity to the
main access roads (Annex 8).
4.04      In Way Abung, the village infrastructure is already in place, or is
currently being expanded or improved through on-going GOI programs (Annex 8).
The project would improve the health facilities (para 4.06) and build four
additional secondary schools (0.05 million).
4.05      Settler Housing ($2.6 million):  In Baturaja 4,500 simple houses
would be provided for the settlers - each costing approximately $500. A
basic timber frame and walls, a tile roof and compacted earth floor has been
designed utilizing local materials of standard dimensions. Experience from
previous settlements indicate that transmigrants will expand on existing
structures using their own resources, and this self-help would be facilitated
as the house is designed for easy lateral expansion (Annex 8, Figure 15676).
As is the practice in both existing and new settlements, the clay tile roof
would allow for clean rainwater collection into storage drums (para 4.07).
4.06      Health ($1.1 million):  The Project's low-cost, community based
health system would consist of primary medical care, malaria control and
immunization, environmental sanitation, nutrition and family planning pro-
grams as well as support for staff training, general supplies and admin-
istration. One Health Center and 10 Village Health Posts would be constructed
in Baturaja, and 2 Health Centers and 22 Village Health Posts in Way Abung.
Motorcycles and 4-wheel drive vehicles would be provided for the staff at
each Health Center. Equipment for each center and post would be purchased
through UNICEF (Annex 9). Assurances were obtained that the health facili-
ties would be introduced into both project areas at levels of service and
on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
4.07      Water Supply and Sanitation ($1.6 million):  In Baturaja present
hydrological information indicates that adequate groundwater supplies would
not be available from wells. Rainwater collection would therefore be one
of the primary sources of water supply (para 4.05). DGT is currently study-
ing the feasibility of constructing small earth dams in the area to secure an
additional source of supply. In Way Abung, groundwater is available and 2,000
wells would be dug and handpumps supplied. Pit latrines would be dug for
each family in Baturaja, and a further 5,000 would be required in Way Abung
(Annex 9).
4.08      Roads ($7.2 million):  The objectives of the project's road com-
ponent is to establish a low-cost system of road and tracks in the settlement
areas to:



- 18 -
link the areas by means of all-weather main access roads
to the national and provincial road and transportation
networks;
-    provide all-weather village roads between the village centers
and the main access roads; and
-    provide farm tracks to facilitate access from the village
centers to the dukuhs.
In the Baturaja area 15 km of main access road, about 110 km of village roads
and about 280 km of farm tracks would be built. Simple wooden bridges and
culverts would be provided, as well as a 15 m permanent bridge across the
Gilas River (Map 11316). In Way Abung the project would complete 50 km of
main access road, 50 km of village roads, and betterment works on 50 km of
existing village roads (Annex 10).
Agricultural Development
4.09      The agricultural development (Annexes 3 through 7) comprises the
following activities:
4.10      Rubber Block Planting ($9.2 million):  Out of its total land allo-
cation of 5 ha each settler family in Baturaja would receive a I ha block of
rubber: a total of 4,500 ha would be planted, in blocks of at least 100 ha.
In Way Abung, 5,000 selected settlers with farms clearly outside of the command
area of any future irrigation development (para 3.11) would each allocate a
0.5 ha plot of their present 2 ha holding to form contiguous blocks for rubber
planting, totalling 2,500 ha. In both areas a specialized contractor would
clear the land, supply polybag planting material and fertilizer and employ and
train the settlers for planting, maintenance, fertilizing and weeding for
six years after planting (Annexes 5 and 7).
4.11      Inputs and Food Aid for Farm Establishment ($1.5 million):  In line
with existing policies, DGT will provide each new settler family during the
first year of settlement with the following grant aid:
(a) food aid (1,950 calories per capita per day) valued at
$220 equivalent for an average of 9 months;
(b) inputs for food crop production and house garden establishment
(fertilizer, seed, seedlings, etc.) valued at $32 equivalent;
and
(c) farm implement and clothing valued at $85 equivalent.
In subsequent years, inputs for food crop production will be supplied under
the National BIMAS Program. 1/ Assurances were obtained during negotiations
1/   An ongoing national scheme for the supply of current inputs and pro-
duction credit to farmers.



- 19 -
that the arrangement necessary to extend coverage of the BIMAS program
to the settlers in Baturaja and to strengthen the operations of the BIMAS
program in Way Abung will be made within one year after loan signing. It
is estimated that an additional US$3.5 million would have to be allocated by
BRI to its BIMAS revolving fund, to fund the additional credit requirements.
These resources are available within BRI, and from the BIMAS secretariat.
Assurances were obtained that up to year six after settlement when the rubber
comes into tapping, input grants would be supplied by the project whenever
food crop production and off-farm employment (in infrastructure construction
and rubber planting and maintenance) are insufficient to meet the minimum
family subsistence requirements. DGT has prepared a policy statement setting
out an operational definition of "minimum subsistence requirements" to be
used in project monitoring and to be applied in the administration of grant
programs in the project area: this definition was reviewed and agreed upon
during negotiations.
4.12      Cattle ($3.6 million):  One draft animal would be distributed to
each of the 4,500 settler families in Baturaja, and to 5,000 families in
Way Abung. Cost of the cattle supply will be recovered through the return
of the first calf to the DGT scheme. The project would support the pro-
curement, transportation and distribution infrastructure for 8,000 head
of cattle from Java or from abroad to the settlement areas during the
five year project period (Annex 6). A village bull program will be oper-
ated by the Directorate General of Livestock Services (DGLS).
4.13      Agricultural Services:  A seed production farm and nursery ($1.0
million) would be established in the Baturaja area as a source of seed and
planting material for both annual crops and fruit trees. It would also
act as a demonstration area for agricultural extension and a rubber tapping
school would be established on 100 ha adjoining the area. These facilities
have been sited to service the regional transmigration program. Extension
staff would be provided in the DGT Village management (para 6.30) and village
level Cooperatives (KUD's) would be established in the area during the project.
In Way Abung, the current credit facilities (BRI village units) would be
expanded, together with the agricultural extension staff, and existing KUDs
would be reorganized (Annex 5).
Project Management Unit ($2.4 million)
4.14      The project would provide for the establishment of a Project Manage-
ment Unit (PMU) which would implement the project with the assistance of
internationally recruited consultants (paras 5.12, 6.09 to 6.12). Technical
assistance totalling 233 man-months would be provided under the project
to strengthen the PMU (Annex 11).
Project Studies ($2.0 million)
4.15      Settlement Monitoring (Annex 12) would be conducted at both Baturaja
and Way Abung to follow the socio-economic development of the settlement areas
and to identify project alternatives conducive to enhancing the participation



- 20 -
of the settlers in the establishment of viable farming communities. Properly
evaluated, the results of the monitoring would be used to modify the planning
of future transmigration settlement areas (para 3.08, 8.04).
4.16      The Health Delivery System would be monitored and evaluated for
its degree of community participation, patient case load, and environmental
sanitation impact. These results would be used by the Ministry of Health in
planning of their future rural health programs (Annex 12).
4.17      Project Studies:  For transmigration to act as the catalyst for
regional development, it is necessary to gain a better understanding of the
impact of the settlements upon the adjacent micro-urban centers and indigenous
farming community. Studies will be funded under the project to enable DGT to
gain a better understanding of the regional development aspects of its on-
going and planned transmigration program. The studies will also focus on the
links which settler communities maintain with their area of origin and which
may open opportunities for more effective settler recruitment. A program of
studies will be agreed upon annually between DGT and the Bank.
Program Support
4.18      Expanding DGT Planning Capacity ($3.4 million):  The project would
include planning of 200,000 ha of land for future settlement through aerial
photography, semi-detailed soil and topographical surveys, land capability
appraisal and site planning (Annex 4). The project would also supply the
Soils Institute at Bogor(LPT) with additional field and laboratory equipment
necessary to meet their increased volume of work for DGT, and fund 61 man-
months of a technical assistance effort, begun by FAO/UNDP, to increase and
improve the institute's survey capability (Annex 4).
4.19      The project would make funds available for 203 man-months of con-
sultancy assistance for future settlement planning and preparation, together
with vehicles, equipment and facilities for establishing a project preparation
unit (Annex 4). The utilization of these consulting funds would be based on
work programs to be agreed between DGT and the Bank.
4.20      Food Cropping Trials ($0.5 million):  There is presently little
research being conducted on the upland soils of the outer islands. CRIA has
begun some multiple cropping trials in Lampung, and this project would assist
in the expansion of this work to Way Abung, Baturaja and adjacent settlement
areas set aside for settlement in the next few years. The project would
finance consultant services (36 man months), vehicles, equipment and field
offices for CRIA (Annex 4).



- 21 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCE
A. Project Cost Estimates
5.01              The project would be fully implemented over a ten year period.
The Bank loan would assist with the financing over a five-year period. The
table below summarizes the costs of the project over the first five years
of implementation. Total cost for full implementation of the project over ten
years is estimated at about $70 million. Details of the project costs are
presented in Annex 15 and are summarized below:
Proiect Cost Suvar
Ruoiah Million                        USS Million                 % Foreign      7 of
Local    Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign        Totel        Exchange        bae. Cost
A. INVESTMENT COST
New Settlement - Baturaja
- Roads, Villages & Housing                           1706        1490       3196        4.11        3.59        7.70             46             19
- Health Seivicee                                      125          58        183        0.30        0.14        0.44              32             1
- Rubber Development                                  1116        1291       2407        2.69        3.11        5.80             54             14
- Cattle Distribution                                  170         195        365        0.41        0.47        0.88             53              2
- Seed Farm                                              71         91        162        0.17        0.22        0.39             56              1
Settlement Upgrading - Way Abung
- Roads & Schools                                      651        1046       1697        1.57        2.52        4.09             62             10
- Health Services                                      199         116        315        0.48        0.28        0.76             37              2
- Rubber Development                                   593         818       1411        1.43        1.97        3.40             58              8
- Cattle Distribution                                  220         220        440        0.53        0.53        1.06             50              3
Aroject Management Unit:
- Vehicles                                              12          46         58        0.03        0.11        0.14             75              -
Revolving Fund . Short Term Credit                       436        1017       1451         1.05       2.45         3.50             70              9
Cattle Distribution - Central Facilitiee                  183        178        361         0.44       0.43         0.87             49              2
Sub-total                    5482       6565       12047       13.21       15.82       29.03             54             71
B. OPERATING COSTS
New Settlement - Baturaja
Village Management                                   137           -        137         0.33        -          0.33               -               I
- Health Services and Training                          62          33         95         0.15       0.08        0.23             35                1
Cattle Distribution                                   54          33         87         0.13       0.08        0.21             38                -
- Seed Farm                                            112         120        232          0.27      0.29        0.56              52               1
- Subsistance Grant                         ,          278         560        838          0.67      1.35        2.02              67               5
Settlement Upgrading - Way Abung
- Village  Management                                   29           -         29          0.07       -          0.07               -
- Health Services and Training                           79         95        174          0.19      0.23        0.42              55               1
- Cattle Distribution                                   42           4         46          0.10      0.01        0.11               9
Project Management Unit
- Local Staff                                          149           .        149          0.36       -          O.d36              -               I
- Consultants & Technieal Serviceg                     145         349        494          0.35      0.84         1.19             71               3
Cattle Distribution - Central Facilities                  158         50         208         0.38      0.12         0.50             24               1
Sub-total                    1245        1245       2490          3.00      3.00         6.00             50              14
C. STUDIES
Future Project Preparation                              743        888       1631          1.79      2.14         3.93             54              10
Monitoring & Evaluation                                 527        195         722         1.27      0.47         1.74             27               4
Regional Impact Study                                    37         87         124         0.09      0.21         0.30             70               1
Sub-total                    1307        1170       2477          3.15      2.82         5.97             47              15
BASE COST                                                8034       8981      17015         19.36    21.64         41.00             53             100
Physical Contingency                                      892       14i3       2315          2.15      3.43         5.58             61              13
Price Contingency                                        2204       2046       4250          5.31      4.93        10.24             48              25
TOTAL COST                  11130       12450      23580         26.82     30.00       56.82              53             138



- 22 -
5.02       The costs are based on mid-1975 estimates updated by the appraisal
mission to January 1976 prices. All operating costs are incremental. Phy-
sical contingencies of 15% have been applied to all civil works and 5% to all
other costs. A physical contingency factor of 30% has been applied to village
roads and farm tracks in view of the possibility that the location of villages
near suitable food crop land may entail deviations from the schematic village
layout used in the derivation of village road cost estimates. Likewise, a con-
tingency factor of 30% has been applied to the allowance for subsistence grants
in the basic cost estimate. This recognizes the possible need for supple-
mentary grant aid beyond year one in the event of food crop failure. In addi-
tion a physical contingency of $1.0 million has been itrcluded to cover the
eventuality that chemical or mechanical means may have to be employed on pro-
ject account to assist the settlers in eradicating the alang-alang grass in
their food crop areas. The provisions for expected price increases, have
been computed based on the following projections:
Annual Inflation Rate
1976     1977    1978    1979       1980
Civil Works                    14       12        12       12       10
Equipment and Services         10         8        8        8        7
Agrochemicals                    2      -7        -7        0        0
B. Project Financing
5.03       The Bank would finance an amount equivalent to the foreign exchange
costs for the first five years of project implementation, estimated at $30
million (53% of total cost). Through annual budget appropriations, GOI would
fund all local costs during the first five years ($26 million). As the imple-
mentation of the test schemes would not be completed until the tenth year,
the total remaining costs, estimated at $14 million, would also be appropriated
annually by GOI until the project is completed.
5.04       The Bank loan of $30 million would have a term of 25 years, with
a grace period of 6 years.
C. Budgeting
5.05       As a number of GOI agencies are involved in the implementation of
this project, the Government has adopted a single, integrated project budget,
administered by the Minister of Manpower Transmigration and Cooperatives, as
Chairman of the National Expansion Committee for Transmigration (NECT)
(para. 6.01).



- 23 -
5.06      For project activities which would be administered by a GOI agency
other than DGT, (e.g. CRIA, Bina Marga, etc.) the annual budgets for these
agencies would be developed jointly by DGT, PMU and each agency. Annual
work programs for all agencies participating in the implementation of the
project as well as a consolidated budget would be agreed upon by the NECT.
This budget would then be submitted to Bappenas in its consolidated form by
the NECT, and in its constituent parts of each implementing agency. Assur-
ances have been obtained from GOI that any modification in the consolidated
budget system which has been adopted for the project for fiscal year 1976-77
would be introduced only in consultation with the Bank.
D. Procurement I/
5.07      Contracts for Civil Works for roads ($9.2 million), villages and
housing ($6.6 million), and agricultural support facilities ($0.7 million)
would be awarded after local competitive bidding (LCB) among prequalified
contractors in accordance with GOI procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Because engineering and design of the successive villages and asso-
ciated roads in Baturaja would proceed in stages, with construction of the
first villages starting while village and road design for the interior of the
project area is only just commencing, civil works contracts would generally be
let on a village by village basis as soon as the specifications for each vil-
lage and its associated roads are completed. As the cost per village ($1.0
million) is small, international contractors are not expected to show any
interest. There is potentially adequate competition and foreign firms can
participate. Following current practices which have ensured reasonable res-
ponses from local contractors, each village would be offered for tender either
as one village or as three parcels - roads ($0.40 million), settler housing
($0.03 million), and the village center ($0.57 million). However, DGT
considers that some road constructrion may have to be carried out on force
account if contractors' response or performance endanger timely completion
of urgently needed access roads for village construction in time for settler
arrival. Accordingly, DGT has requested that procurement and disbursement
under the project allow for construction roads on force account. Assurances
were obtained that road construction on force account would not exceed 30%
of the total cost of road construction.
5.08      As most local contractors are undercapitalized, GOI would continue
its present practice whereby tender documents provide for advances to contrac-
tors of up to 20% of the contract value for purchase of equipment and building
materials. Prior Bank approval of bid documents and awards are required for
contracts over the equivalent of $100,000.
1/   Project costs in Part D are quoted in current prices excluding physical
contingencies.



- 24 -
5.09      Rubber Development ($10.7 million).  Block planting of 7,000 ha of
rubber and its maintenance for up to six years would be carried out on the
basis of a negotiated contract between DGT and PNP X, 1/ since it involves
the execution of a specialized, integrated service which cannot be procured
through a competitive bidding process. With its estate operations in
Lampung and South Sumatera provinces, PNP X is well placed to carry out such
a contract in a cost-effective manner. Monitoring and quality controls establ-
ished for PNP X's rubber plantings financed under IDA Credit 319-IND have
provided unit cost information on which contract negotiations will be based.
Supplies required for the execution of the contract would be procured in
accordance with current GOI procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Fertilizers and chemicals ($1.0 million) as well as vehicles and equipment
($1.5 million) would be procured by PNP X on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines on procure-
ment. Procurement on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
shall not exceed a total of $100,000 equivalent in any one fiscal year. DGT,
in consultation with the Bank, is negotiating a final draft of the rubber
planting and maintenance contract with PNP X. The draft contract has been
reviewed with the Bank during negotiations; its signing would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.
5.10      Vehicles and Equipment ($3.7 million) would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of the imported goods or
the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to the local manufac-
turers in the evaluation of bids. However, procurement under contracts of
less than $50,000 would be locally through prudent shopping involving the
solicitation of at least three quotations. The total procured in this manner
would be limited to the equivalent of $300,000. An assurance has been ob-
tained during negotiations that vehicles imported under the proposed project
would be exempt from existing import restrictions.
5.11      Livestock ($1.9 million).  Cattle would be procured locally mainly
in Java and Madura. General purchasing guidelines developed by DGT for use
by local purchasing agents have been reviewed during negotiations, and final-
ization of these guidelines, as part of the Memorandum of Agreement between
DGT and DGLS, is a condition of effectiveness. Depending upon local supply
conditions, DGT may find it necessary to import cattle in order to meet
project requirements. In this case procurement would take place on the basis
of at least three price quotations from suppliers of livestock in countries
free from foot and mouth disease.
5.12      Consultants and Technical Services ($6.4 million).  Consultants
would be engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Uses of
Consultants on terms and conditions approved by the Bank. The following
table summarizes the consultants' and technical services which would be
financed under the project:
1/   A public sector enterprise with rubber and oil palm estate operations
located in Lampung and South Sumatera, and supported under Cr. 319-IND -
The Fourth Agricultural Estates Project.



- 25 -
Project implementation:  233 man-months  (para. 4.14)
Project monitoring:        120 man-months  (Annex 12)
Program preparation:       300 man-months  (paras. 4.18, 4.19 and 4.20)
Technical services:   US$1.7 million equivalent (paras. 6.27 and 6.28)
Internationally recruited consultants have been costed at US$60,000 per man-
year (including housing allowances, international travel and local trans-
portation) on the basis of past experience in Indonesia.
Retroactive Financing
5.13      GOI has requested retroactive financing in the total amount of about
US$1.0 million equivalent for surveys, vehicles and equipment and for civil
works in connection with the establishment of the first village in Baturaja
for which contracts have been awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding. A schedule of project expenditures in support of its retroactive
financing request was presented by GOI at negotiations. Resident Staff in
Indonesia is reviewing the procurement procedures followed by GOI for all
items for which retroactive financing has been requested.
E. Disbursement
5.14      Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) against civil works 1/ at the rate of 50% of the total cost
on the basis of certified monthly contractor's progress pay-
ments. Disbursements for force account works would be
against a certificate of expenditures, the documentation for
which would not be submitted to the Bank for review but would
be retained by the borrower and made available for inspection
by the Bank's supervision missions;
(b) at the rates of 100% against the foreign exchange cost of
directly imported vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-
factory price of equipment manufactured locally and 65% for
imported farm equipment procured locally on the basis of
contracts awarded after international competitive bidding.
Disbursements for the cost of vehicles procured locally
on the basis of prudent shopping (para 5.10) would be at
the rate of 40%;
(c) against agrochemicals at the rate of 100% of the delivered
cost;
1/   Excluding schools, health buildings and water supply facilities in
Baturaja which are to be reimbursed through disbursements under (g).



- 26 -
(d)  against cattle purchases at the rate of 100% of foreign
expenditures in the case of imported cattle on the basis of
bills of sale submitted to the Bank, and at the rate
of 50% for locally procured cattle on the basis of certi-
ficates of expenditures, the documentation for which would
not be submitted to the Bank for review but would be
retained by the borrower and made available for inspection
by the Bank's supervision missions;
(e)  against rubber development expenditures (other than agro-
chemicals or vehicles and equipment procured by PNP X
under its contract with DGT) at the rate of 30% against
certified quarterly contractor's progress payments;
(f)  against the cost of consultants' services and surveys at
the rate of 100% for both foreign and local consultants
to encourage the use of qualified local consultants;
(g)  at the rate equivalent to US$1,000 per family settled,
against a certified statement of completion of village
construction, and establishment of village management
and social and agricultural service staffs, and on the
basis of statements of actual costs incurred for specified
items not included in the preceeding disbursement categories
(Annex 14). Supporting evidence that such expenditures
have been incurred would be retained by DGT, and would be
available for inspection during project supervision and
to the auditors.
Experience has shown that during the first years of project implementation
new GOI borrowing agencies find it very difficult to coordinate IBRD dis-
bursements with the release of budget funds. The 100% disbursement rate
proposed under (c), (d) and (f) above is to eliminate this source of imple-
mentation delays for three vital project items. The disbursement arrangement
under (g) are proposed to establish a Bank involvement with the settler
subsistence grant and with the provision of essential agricultural, health
and social services. The estimated schedule of expenditures on the project
and the disbursement schedule are presented in Annexes 14 and 15. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed within six years from loan
effectiveness.
F. Quality and Cost Controls
5.15      Three major project components, the civil works, the rubber plant-
ing and the livestock procurement, would require quality and cost control on
a regular basis. For the civil works and livestock, this function would be
carried out by the PMU assisted by Consultants. Under the conditions of Credit



- 27 -
319-IND, PNP X's rubber plantings are subject to quality inspection by an in-
dependent consulting organization representing the DG Estates. Similar in-
spection arrangements will be made through the periodic inspection and satis-
factory certification of each block of rubber by consultants employed by the
PMU. Inspection and certification that thee established rubber meets pre-
determined criteria would be a condition for closing payments at the end of
the maintenance period. The PMU would retain the services of two interna-
tionally recruited rubber inspectors for a total of 20 man-months over a five-
year period. Assurances were obtained from GOI that these quality and cost
controls would be established and enforced.
G. Accounting and Auditing
5.16      DGT, as well as each contracting Government agency or State owned
enterprise would be required to keep separate accounts for the project. The
project accounting unit would be responsible for an annual consolidation of
the DGT and other implementing agency accounts for presentation to the Bank.
These accounts, both separately and consolidated, would be subject to an
annual audit by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The separate
and consolidated audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.
5.17      To develop adequate cost data for future project planning the PMU,
in consultation with the Bank, will introduce a cost accounting system which
is being developed by DGT with UNDP assistance. Details of the accounting
arrangements are outlined in Annex 11.
H. Cost Recovery
5.18      While there would be no direct cost recovery from the project bene-
ficiaries, GOI would receive revenues from project beneficiaries from IPEDA
land taxes, and the Rubber Export Tax. At full development in years 1985-
1995 these taxes would amount to $240 per annum and $60 per annum per family
in Baturaja and Way Abung respectively. Over the life of the block planted
rubber, the present value (discounted at 12%) of these taxes would be $500
and $200 respectively, which is equivalent to 12% and 20% respectively of the
total GOI on-farm investment per family.



- 28 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Legal Framework
6.01       Two Presidential Decrees prescribe the framework within which
the Indonesia transmigration program operates (Annex 11). Presidential
Decree 29 of 1974 created three major coordinating committees referred to
as Expansion, Guidance and Implementation Committees at the national,
provincial and district levels respectively. These committees comprise
representatives of all major GOI agencies which participate in the imple-
mentation of the program (Chart 9346).
6.02       While responsibility for the execution of GOI's transmigration
program rests with the Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives
and its Director General for Transmigration, GOI relies to a very large
degree on the provincial and district governments for detailed program
implementation.
6.03       The Director General for Transmigration, whose Head Office is in
Jakarta, is represented in each Province by a Provincial Director for Trans-
migration, who is functionally responsible to the Director General but
administratively to the Provincial Governor.
6.04       At the district level, DGT is represented by a district represen-
tative, who is functionally responsible to DGT but who is required to coordi-
nate all local transmigration activities with the district administration
through the local Implementation Committee chaired by the District Chief
(Bupati). Ongoing settlement administration is the responsibility of district
level DGT staff. Under existing law DGT is required to administer settlement
schemes for up to five years before transfer of administration to normal,
local government.
B. The Directorate General of Transmigration
6.05       Presidential Decree 44 of 1974 created the administrative and
secretariat functions of DGT, and four operational directorates as follows:
(a) Planning and Programming;
(b) Project Preparation and Implementation;
(c) Settler Recruitment and Placement; and
(d) Development and Guidance.
The detailed duties of these directorates are outlined in Annex 11, and the
organizational structure is presented in Chart 9423.



- 29 -
Current Technical Assistance
6.06      To strengthen DGT at the national headquarter's level, both admin-
istratively and technically, a UNDP project, with FAO as executing agency,
is providing technical assistance for program development. Ten expatriate
specialists had been assigned to work within the four operating directorates
and the secretariat, and funds for an additional 100 man months of unspecified
expert assistance and fellowships for overseas training of DGT staff had been
allocated. Due to recent overall cutbacks in the UNDP program, this assist-
ance has been reduced to 7 specialists and 50 man months of as yet unspecified
assistance: all fellowship funds have been deleted. GOI may decide in the
course of implementation to utilize technical assistance funds provided by
the project to strengthen this reduced program.
C. The Project Management Unit
6.07      Because a number of multilateral and bilateral agencies are begin-
ning to support specific projects within DGTs program, the Director General
has decided to create a number of project management units (PMU). These
units will have the responsibility for coordinating the inputs for the
bilateral or multilateral projects under their management from DGTs opera-
tional directorates and other responsible GOI agencies, at the national,
and provincial levels. At the district level, the site manager for the
project, who is responsible for day-to-day implementation activities, would
be responsible directly to the PMU. DGTs district representative 1/ would
act on behalf of the project as the local coordinator with the district admi-
nistration (through the Implementation Committee - para 6.04) (Chart 15548).
6.08      For the proposed project, the PMU would be headed by a project
director, responsible directly to the Director General. At headquarters, the
project director would be assisted by an agriculturalist, civil engineer,
land settlement specialist and general administrator. Two site managers would
be appointed for Baturaja and Way Abung respectively. Each of these managers
would have four assistants, performing the corresponding tasks of the four
assistants at headquarters. A small self-contained DGT Engineering Section
consisting of Provincial Bina Marga staff on fixed-term secondment to DGT's
site management units would be established in the project area. Present DGT
salary levels make it difficult to field an adequate calibre of professional
staff for site management. To overcome this problem GOI agreed during nego-
tiations to apply the compensation scales established for the North Sumatera
Smallholder Development Project (Cr. 358-IND) to the staff of the PMU. DGT
has finalized the formal establishment of the PMU and has provided the Bank at
negotiations with copies of the documents which (a) formalized the appointment
of the Project Director and (b) recorded the formal establishment and structure
of the PMU. Progress in the staffing of the PMU was reviewed during negotia-
tions and the appointment of the core PMU staff would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
1/   Responsible to the Provincial Director for Transmigration.



- 30 -
6.09      DGT would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to retain a
qualified consulting firm to field and supervise a team of experts who would
assist the PMU in the detailed planning and implementation of the project.
This consultants' team would consist of:
(a)  1 Land Development Expert/Team Leader for up to three years;
(b)  2 Land Development Experts for up to three years (including
at least one expert specialized in food crop development);
(c)  1 Civil Engineer for up to 18 months with experience in rural
works and quantity surveying;
(d)  1 Livestock Adviser for up to 2 years to assist in cattle
procurement and distribution;
(e)  1 Hydro-Geologist for a total of 12 man-months over the
course of 2 years to assist in planning and implementation
of the village water supply; and
(f)  approximately 15 man-months of short term expert assistance
in fields to be identified in the course of project imple-
mentation.
A number of qualified consulting firms, acceptable to the Bank, have been
invited by DGT to submit staffing proposals for the above positions in res-
ponse to Terms of Reference which were prepared in consultation with the Bank.
Appointment of the consulting firm would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
6.10      The PMU would have responsibility for preparing the annual budgets
for the project, and for expenditures from those budgets (para 5.05, 5.06).
The primary task of coordinating would be achieved through this control of
budgetary resources. The PMU would draw up the TORs for consultants to be
hired through this project. Acting on behalf of the Director General for
Transmigration, the project director would provide for coordination between
the PMU and the operational directorates of DGT, as well as between DGT and
the GOI agencies responsible for various aspects of planning and implementa-
tion of this project. To allow a review of the budget procedures as they
apply to the project in fiscal year 1976/77 (April 1, 1976 - March 31, 1977)
DGT brought to negotiations the 1976/77 project budget (DIP) 1/ and a state-
ment of the procedures for budgeting of Bank loan funds under this project.
As part of the Government's regular progress reports to the Bank this inform-
ation would be provided annually not later than April 30 of each year.
6.11      Village management personnel would be responsible to the PMU (Chart
15548). The PMU would be directly responsible for coordinating all activities
with the District Representatives of DGT. In Way Abung, village management
1/   Daftar Isian Proyek - project budget document.



- 31 -
structures exist and the Lampung Provincial Directorate of DGT has had a
site management team operating in the area for a number of years. DGT has
chosen to use this management team as the site team of the PMU.
6.12      Financial Management:  A project accounting unit would be formed
in the PMU (Chart 15548) with accounting site teams in both project areas.
Details of staffing are shown in Annex 11. Because of the cost accounting
requirements of this project, an internationally recruited Accounting Advisor
would be appointed under the project for a period of up to two years, to
develop the accounting systems for the PMU in cooperation with the Head of the
Finance Section in the Secretariat, to be compatible with GOI accounting
requirements as well as the revised system being implemented by the FAO/UNDP
Financial Planner.
6.13      The appointment of the head of the accountant unit at headquarters
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Assurances have been obtained
that the Accounting Adviser would be appointed within six months after loan
signing.
6.14      To familiarize DGT with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, and to
activate loan disbursement with a minimum delay, the Public Works Department
(Bina Marga) has seconded a member of their staff, well acquainted with the
Bank's requirements, for a period of up to 6 months, to train members of DGT
staff and assist in establishing the necessary internal procedures.
D. Project Execution
6.15      In project execution it is DGT policy to enlist, to the maximum
extent possible, the support of other competent, specialized GOI agencies or
contractors in the execution of specific tasks. The components of the project,
the corresponding executing agency or contractor and their management relation-
ship with DGT and the PMU are described below.
Implementation of New Settlement and Settlement Upgrading
6.16      Infrastructure:  would be implemented by the PMU under contracct
with allowance for force account construction of roads by Bina Marga.
6.17      Rubber Development:  The management of land clearing, rubber plant-
ing and maintenance and supply and application of fertilizer for six years
after planting would be undertaken by PNP X through a contract with DGT.
Under its contract PNPX would also operate a tapper training scheme. Assur-
ances have been obtained from GOI that BUUDs/ KUDs would be established by
the sixth year in the settlement areas so as to take over the fertilizer and
inputs supply, and rubber development and marketing functions. Government
has also undertaken to carry out a study of long-term credit requirements for
smallholder tree-crop development with a view to formulating an implementation
program which would be reviewed with the Bank in July 1977.



- 32 -
6.18      Cattle Supply:  In the implementation of its cattle supply scheme
DGT would obtain the assistance of the Directorate General of Livestock Ser-
vices (DGLS) in the Department of Agriculture under a Memorandum of Agreement
setting out the detailed arrangements for the cooperation of the two Govern-
ment agencies.
6.19      Agricultural Support Facilities:  Seed Farm, Nurseries and demon-
stration areas would be developed by the PMU under a Memorandum of Agreement
with the Department of Agriculture (DOA). The Agency for Research and Dev-
elopment (ARD) in DOA would conduct cropping trials under a Memorandum of
Agreement with DGT in Baturaja and in other agreed locations.
6.20      During negotiations agreement was reached on revisions required to
the draft Memoranda of Agreement between DGT and DOA/DGFD, DGT and DOA/ARD,
DGT and DOA/DGLS as well as DGT and Bina Marga. Finalization, in agreement
with the Bank, and signing of these Memoranda of Agreement would be a con-
dition of loan effectiveness.
6.21      Land Title:  The issue of Hak Pakai (right of exploitation) certi-
ficates to the settlers has devolved upon the Provincial Director for Trans-
migration. Assurances were obtained that each settler would receive certifi-
cates for his house lot within three months, and for his food crop area within
one year of settlement. Hak Milik (full ownership title) rights for house
lot and food crop area would be issued to the settlers at the end of the fifth
year of settlement to enable the settler to have collateral for term credit
which he may need for on-farm improvements on his own account. Full owner-
ship title for the block-planted rubber area would be conferred in the course
of the sixth year after settlement. The issue of Hak Milik requires a de-
tailed plot survey which is the responsibility of the Provincial and District
Offices of Agraria. Prior to the issue of Hak Milik GOI would review settler
performance and take appropriate action in the case of settlers who are found
to be negligent in the husbandry of their land grant. DGT, in consultation
with Agraria, has prepared an implementation program for conveyance of land
titles to the transmigrants; this program was reviewed with the Bank during
negotiations.
Project Studies
6.22      Monitoring and Evaluation Study - Settlement:  The DGT monitoring
and evaluation study would be contracted to the Center for Rural Sociology
Research (CRSR) at the Agricultural University at Bogor. The results of
the surveys and studies would be conveyed both to DGT and the Bank. In
parallel with these socio-economic surveys, the PMU would implement a direct
monitoring system of settlement progress (Annex 12, Attachment 3).
6.23      Monitoring and Evaluation Study - Health:  The monitoring and evalua-
tion of the health services component of this project would be carried out by
the Institute of Health Research and Development in the Ministry of Health,
in coordination with DGT and CRSR.



- 33 -
6.24      GOI and the Bank have agreed on the TORs of these studies at negotia-
tions. Assurances were obtained that project monitoring and surveys would
commence within six months of loan signing and would be conducted in both
Baturaja and Way Abung for at least five years.
6.25      Other Project Studies (para 4.17) will be carried out by qualified
consultants including Indonesia's national universities under contract to the
PMU.
Program Planning and Preparation
6.26      A program of technical surveys would provide direct operational
input to the Directorate of Planning and Programming of DGT. In developing
the annual work plan for the various survey agencies of GOI, this Directorate
would present its requirements to the Director General of DGT. As the PMU
would have control over the project's budget, it would be the Director
General's responsibility to assign project funds for the survey programs of
the Directorate of Planning and Programming.
6.27      Technical Surveys:  Aerial photography would be contracted through
BAKOSURTANAL 1/; the services from this agency would include administration
of the flying contracts, photo-interpretation by broad land use classifica-
tions and topographic mapping (Annex 4).
6.28      Similarly for soil surveys, the Soils Research Institute (LPT)
would be the primary contractor to DGT. Where LPT is restricted by capacity
and staffing constraints, it would be responsible for any subcontracting.
6.29      Settlement Area Planning:  The project would provide funds for 155
man-months of technical assistance to be utilized in both agricultural and
physical planning of future areas. It would be the responsibility of the DGT
Directorate of Planning and Programming to prepare in consultation with the
PMU terms of reference for the short-term consultant required for this activ-
ity. The planning consultants would be responsible to the Directorate of
Planning and Programming.
E. Agricultural Supporting Services
6.30      Agricultural Extension:  These services are the responsibility of
DGT during the period of their administration of a project area (para 6.04).
Currently in Way Abung agriculturalists on DGT's staff do not act as exten-
sion agents, but as implementation agents for DGT's programs in the settle-
ment area. Assurances have been sought that DGT, acting in close cooperation
with DGFD in DOA, would within six months of the loan signing, appoint an
agriculturalist to each village manager's staff in both Way Abung and Baturaja
1/   This agency is supported by the National Resource Survey and Mapping
Project (Ln - 1197) recently approved by the Bank.



- 34 -
to act as extension agent. To ensure, in the transition of administration
to the local authorities, that the extension services are maintained in the
area, Rural Extension Centers would be set up in both areas. These centers
would be staffed by the DOA, in accordance with their national plan for
expanding agricultural extension services; the establishment of Rural
Extension Centers in Baturaja would be assisted by a recent Bank loan. 1/
6.31      Veterinary Services:  The Directorate General of Livestock Services
(DGLS) in DOA would supply veterinary services for the cattle procured in
Java for supply to project participants (para. 6.18) and for the village
bull units. DGLS has provincial and district officers in Southern Sumatera.
6.32      Agricultural Credit:  It is DGT's policy that as far as possible
BRI village units should be established in the transmigration areas during
the first year of settlement to extend the coverage of the national BIMAS
program to the food crop production of the settlers. This has not been
carried out in Way Abung where only two village units have so far been set up.
Assurances have been obtained from GOI that an adequate number of BRI village
units would be established in Way Abung within one year of loan signing and
in Baturaja within one year of the establishment of each village (para. 4.11).
6.33      Term loans for on-farm development are currently not offered by
any banking institutions in Indonesia. GOI has requested Bank financial and
technical assistance for BRI with the objective of developing BRI's term
lending capability. A project which responds to this request is scheduled
for appraisal in September 1976. Further, as smallholder rubber and other
tree crop development will play an important role in the further development
of the settler farms in the project, assurances have been obtained that GOI
would study the term-lending requirements for these crops, and discuss an
implementation schedule for such a credit program with the Bank by July
1977 (para 6.17).
1/   The National Food Crops Extension Project which was recently approved
by the Board.



- 35 -
F. Implementation Schedule
6.34      The basic components of the project are scheduled as follows:
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      Total
Baturaja
Village centers developed        2        2        3         3                  10
# families settled             500   1,000    1,500    1,500        -        4,500
ha rubber developed             -      500    1,000    1,500    2,000        4,500
cattle issued                   -       -        500    1,000    1,500       3,000
Way Abung
ha rubber developed            500     500       500       500      500      2,500
cattle issued                1,000   1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000        5,000
6.35      Scheduling all the components of this project will require close
coordination with a number of implementing agencies and private contractors.
The PMU would coordinate planning and site activities for physical infra-
structure. Coordination in social and economic infrastructure implementation
while also the direct responsibility of the PMU, will depend crucially upon
the coordinating functions of the Implementation, Guidance and Expansion
Committees (para. 6.01). While most of these services would not be on the
critical path, the lack of such inputs would have serious consequences for
settler welfare.
6.36      To ready the project for rapid implementation the following
steps have already been taken in close consultation with the Bank:
-    The Minister of Transmigration has appointed the project
director, and the core staff of the PMU have been designated
by DGT;
-    A consolidated project budget for FY76-77 has been approved;
-    DGT has entered into negotiations with PNP X regarding rubber
development; a draft contract has been reviewed with the
Bank. In turn, PNP X has pre-financed the establishment of
nurseries which are ready to supply the planting material
for the first year planting program;
-    The field survey and layout of Village I in Baturaja has been
completed, reviewed by Resident Staff, and construction has
commenced;
-    Bina Marga has prepared detailed designs for the major access
roads in Way Abung and Baturaja;



- 36 -
DGT has procured start-up equipment;
DGT, in cooperation with DOA, has started field trials for
leguminous crops in the Baturaja area during the 1975/76 wet
season;
Final drafts of the Memoranda of Agreement between DGT and Bina
Marga, DOA/DGFD, DOA/ARD and DOA/DGLS respectively are in hand; and
A Draft Ministerial Decree establishing the Project
Management Unit has been reviewed by the Bank.



- 37 -
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM INCOMES
A. Introduction
7.01      As the new settlement and the area upgrading are both large test
schemes, the projected on-farm production patterns, other than rubber, can
be expected to be modified either through the trial-and-error processes of
the settlers, or in response to extension advise to be developed through
the project on the basis of adaptive research and close monitoring of settler
behavior. The farm models, yields, production data and incomes presented
in this section are therefore only indicative of the type of development
expected were no modifications to take place. As regards food crop develop-
ment all yield estimates, the cropping patters and input requirements are,
at this stage, largely a matter of judgment, as there is no large-scale direct
experience of these farming systems and the proposed technology packages.
B. Farm Models
7.02      Baturaja:  In addition to the 1 ha of block-planted rubber, dev-
eloped under the project in the second and third years of settlement, it is
expected that the farmer will eventually plant an additional rubber or other
tree crops utilizing term credit (para, 6.33). His cash flow would allow him
to plant rubber, at the earliest, in 0.5 ha blocks in the sixth, seventh,
eleventh and twelfth years. The farm model (Table 5.2) indicates this de-
velopment pattern.
7.03      Way Abung:  Participating farmers would develop 0.5 ha of rubber
under the project, and as in Baturaja, if the farmer wishes to plant addi-
tional land to rubber, this could be done utilizing credit. However, ac-
cording to present farm plans the remaining land will be needed for food
crop production under a rotational system. As noted in para. 3.11, GOI
may consider the allocation of additional land to the Way Abung settlers
pending the outcome of a detailed land capability and cadastral survey to
be carried out under the project. However, at this stage, the projections
of farm income presented for Way Abung (para. 7.16 and Annex 16) assume only
a better utilization of the existing 2 ha holdings.
C. Yield Projections
7.04      Food Crops:  In Baturaja the garden area (0.2 ha) would be con-
tinously and intensively cropped using inorganic fertilizers, compost and
animal manures: 50% of the area would be in cassava and 50% in rice or
beans at any one time. On this small area yields have been projected to
increase from an initial 8 tons/ha of cassava and 1.2 tons/ha of padi to



- 38 -
12 tons/ha of cassava and 2.0 tons/ha of padi within five years. These
yield improvements are presently being obtained on small farms in the
Catholic settlement area adjacent to the project. On the farm area set
aside for the much less intensive cropping with fallow rotation (0.5 ha
per year out of 1.5 ha), yields have been projected to increase by about
5% per year, reaching a sustainable maximum in about 13 years.
7.05      In Way Abung yields are very low, already reflecting the exhaustion
of the natural soil fertility. Unsupervised fertilizer applications (supplied
through BIMAS) so far have achieved little yield improvements.  However, it
is expected that the rotational cropping/leguminous fallow system to be
introduced under the project would improve yields on the newly opened land.
Padi yields would increase from 1.4 tons/ha to 2.0 tons/ha, groundnuts from
0.7 to 1.2 tons/ha, and cassava from 12.0 to 15 tons/ha; this compares with
present yields of 0.7 tons/ha for rice, 0.5 tons/ha for groundnuts and 6.0
tons/ha for cassava. These yield improvements would be attained using mode-
rate applications of inorganic fertilizers (100 kg/ha urea and 50 kg/ha
triple super-phosphate) plus manure/compost from the draft animal. While
higher yields have been obtained in a small trial area adjacent to Way Abung
and on similar soils, this was in a closely supervised program.  Transfer
of this technology to a wider program would be tested in this project through
a CRIA program of crop rotation trials.
7.06      The indicative farm models (Annex 5) show that both project areas
would essentially only supply the food crop subsistence needs, unless the
research program financed under the project develops a feasible technology
for sustained annual cropping of these soils. A small marketable surplus in
cassava and groundnuts would be generated.
7.07      Rubber:  Each settler is expected to bring his block-planted rubber
into tapping in the sixth year after planting. It is projected that on
average a peak yield of 1.2 tons/ha of dry rubber content will be at-
tained by the twelfth year. This yield level is projected to be about 33%
below the yields attained for estate managed rubber on PNP X estates. These
lower yields for project rubber assume that the smallholder will on average
not attain the standards of upkeep and tapping which are attainable under
central estate management. For farmer-planted rubber (para. 6.33) the yield
is also projected to peak at 1.2 tons/ha in the twelfth year. Again, this
estimate reflects the more uncertain standards of rubber upkeep, especially
during the period of immaturity, which by contrast to the block-planted
rubber, will be dependent on settler skill and initiative as well as the
quality of agricultural support services which have yet to be organized.



- 39 -
D. Marketing and Storage
7.08      Baturaja:  Local market places, rice and fertilizer storage facili-
ties would be constructed under the project. DGT village management would
include staff to manage these facilities.
7.09      Way Abung:  This area is already served reasonably well by the exist-
ing marketing system. However, poor road conditions and the attendant high
transport cost have resulted in rather unfavorable terms of trade for the
settler population. The road improvements to be financed under this project
will help improve this situation. Adequate rice and fertilizer storage facili-
ties have already been built in the area.
E. Prices
7.10      Rubber:  The Bank's price projection for rubber has been extended
to 1995.  The conversion to farmgate price has assumed that international
freight rates and local processing costs would remain constant. Export taxes
have been maintained at the current level of 5% of the international price
(Annex 16).
7.11      Rice:  Rice is presently bought and sold by Bulog at a subsidized
price below the world market price. It is GOI's intention to slowly decrease
the level of the subsidy so as to eliminate it by 1985. The international
price for 5% unbroken rice is projected to fall from the 1975 level of $395/
ton (Rp 164/kg per ton) to $324/ton (Rp 134/kg) in 1985. This latter price
is equivalent to a farmgate price of Rp 85/kg for padi, which is also the
present Bulog subsidized price.
7.12      Cassava, Groundnuts and Garden Crops:  The current farmgate prices
in the area have been assumed to remain constant over the life of the project.
The cassava price of Rp 8/kg for wet root is based on the current price of
US$125/ton cif Germany for cassava pellets. Agents for the German livestock-
feed processors are actively encouraging cassava production in the area.
7.13      Fertilizer:  For urea and TSP, applied to food crops, the subsidized
BIMAS price of Rp 80/kg has been assumed to remain constant throughout the
project life. It has been assumed that the projected decline in fertilizer
prices (in constant terms) will eliminate the present subsidy. For fertilizers
required for rubber, the projected declining constant prices have been con-
verted into farmgate prices (Annex 16), and applied in the farm models. How-
ever, for evaluation of the contract price for rubber establishment (para.
5.09) the fertilizer price was maintained at the 1976 level, and the price
decline accounted for in the price contingency (para. 5.02).



- 40 -
F. Farm Incomes
7.15      Baturaja:  Based on the farm model described above, and in Annex 16,
the following table summarizes the settler income obtained from food crops,
rubber and off-farm employment.
 ..--------------Year----------------
2        10         15       20       25
----------(Constant 1976 $)-----------
La
Net value   of:
food production           152        464       386       523      461
rubber from 1 ha           -         397       628       628      340
Total on-farm income            152       861      1,014                801
off-farm income           340        -         -         -         -
Net income                     492        861      1,014    1,151       801
Value La of 2nd and 3rd
ha rubber                     -         -         426       910    1,255
Total Income              492        861     1,440    2,061    2,056
/a   after IPEDA taxes.
The relatively rapid increase in net income from $492 to $860 over nine years,
and the more gradual increase to $1,014 by year 15, and the leveling off at
$1,150 reflects the income potential of the GOI grant aid limited to 1 ha of
block-planted rubber. After 20 years of tree life rubber yields decline,
giving an income of $801 by year 25: trees should be replanted at this time
thereby lowering the farm income significantly between then and the 35th year.
The 2nd and 3rd ha of rubber, planted by the farmer under long-term credit or
self-financed, would give the farmer an additional income, which would assist
in bridging the replanting period. The cattle component would produce one
saleable animal every two years valued at $120.
7.16      For year 1, it is GOI policy to issue food aid to the settlers to
meet their minimum nutrition requirements (para. 4.11). In subsequent years
off-farm employment, i.e., wages given to settlers for work on block-planted
rubber, would supplement food production.
7.17      Way Abung:  The project will improve incomes of the selected
5,000 farm units from $406 to $970 p.a. at full development. Given the
type of soils, the at best limited irrigation opportunities and the pre-
sent state of food crop technology,.further income growth is severely
limited by the 2 ha farm size.



- 41 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Development Objectives
8.01      The land resources of the Outer Islands of the Indonesia archipelago
are underutilized. These regions are underpopulated relative to the resource
potential, and organized land development by transmigrants is to make a major
contribution to their development.
8.02      Transmigration benefits Java in as much as the concentrated removal
of population from critical regions would reduce land pressure, and under-
employment in the areas of settler origin. However, for a transmigration
program of the presently feasible size to have an impact on rural development
in Java, recruitment of settlers would have to be concentrated in areas with
high man/land ratios. Rural development in Java will increasingly be depend-
ent upon programs of non-agricultural employment creation; but an enlarged
program of transmigration is viewed by the Government as an important part
of its overall strategy to overcome rural poverty on the Inner Islands.
B. Project Objectives
8.03      The primary objective of this project is to test new approaches
to upland settlement and to explore ways and means to upgrade ongoing settle-
ment schemes. Thus, in its general approach the project has been formulated
with an overriding concern for replicability. The planning and implementa-
tion methodology adopted for the test settlement areas would be institution-
alized in DGT, with a view to strengthening its implementation capacity. Re-
search into the problems of sustained annual cropping on upland soils would
contribute to the technical and economic feasibility of the future settlement
program.
C. Project Evaluation
New Settlement - Baturaja
8.04      GOI investment costs per family have been computed as follows:



- 42
Program Costs:                             Constant 1976 $
Recruitment and Transport                        300
Local Site Management                             70
Village and Road Infrastructure                1,310
Sub-Total                                 1,680
Farm Development Cost:
Settler House                                    500
Rubber Development (1 ha)                      1,865
Cow                                              290
Subsistence Package                              340
Sub-Total                                 2,990
TOTAL                                     4,670
On the basis of present knowledge this US$5,000 per family settlement package
which is to be tested in Baturaja constitutes the least-cost approach relative
to GOI's program objectives. However, subject to the lessons to be learned
through closely monitored project execution, cost reductions in future repli-
cation of such upland settlements may turn out to be possible, especially if
sustained food cropping on these marginal uplands is proven feasible.
8.05      Per smallholding, 1.5 permanent jobs would be created under this
project.  This would increase to 2.5 through further, loan-financed, on-farm
development. On the basis of cost per individual job the initial employment
creation through transmigration compares as follows with other forms of
employment creation: 1/
Average Small-Scale Industry                   5,800
Average Medium and Large-Scale Industry       15,500
Land Settlement/Transmigration                 3,400
Transmigration is the lower cost approach to employment creation even if the
cost per job is taken to include infrastructure development which might be
legitimately charged to regional development.
8.06      The economic rate of return is dependent on assumptions regarding
the shadow wage rate and the scarcity price of foreign exchange. Farm labor
was shadow priced at the minimum wage rate (Rp 210/day). 2/ Foreign exchange
was priced 25% above the official exchange rate. Charging all infrastructure
I/   Source:  Indonesia Basic Economic Report, 1975, Industrial Sector Annex.
2/   Based on the legislated minimum daily rate for casual labor.  At full
employment. With 1.5 labor unit per family, annual family income at
this rate, would provide 50% of the minimum subsistance requirements.



- 43 -
cost against the settlement project. The resulting rate of return lies be-
tween 11% and 12%. This return is moderately sensitive to changes in infra-
structure cost, and the level of rubber yields and prices. A 25% increase in
infrastructure costs coupled with a 20% reduction in net income from rubber
would reduce the rate of return to 9% (Annex 17).
8.07      The non-quantifiable benefits include improved health and nutritional
status of the settlers, and the multiplier effects on the regional economy of
local capital formation and increased levels of consumption expenditure. It
has not been possible to estimate the Government expenditures which would have
to be made to maintain and improve standards of rural welfare in the area of
settler origin in the absence of resettlement and which represent avoided
costs. Likewise it has not been possible to quantify the benefits which accrue
in the area of origin due to the alleviation of population pressure on scarce
resources including land. Studies to be executed under this project would
allow a closer examination of these transmigration benefits in the evaluation
of future schemes and programs.
Settlement Rehabilitation - Way Abung
8.08 Road rehabilitation in Way Abung would serve to reduce the cost of
transportation of market goods for the entire project area. In the case of
cassava alone - the primary "export" from the area the price received by the
farmer is expected to increase by 15%. However cassava is a product for
which transportation is a significant proportion of the cost; this level of
benefit could not be extrapolated to other products. Lack of data prevents
a separate economic evaluation of the road component. However, the proposed
rubber development in the project area demands roads of the quality being
introduced by the project, and the economic evaluation of the rubber invest-
ment includes the benefits to be derived from normal market accessibility
for the output.
8.09      Investment cost in rubber, cattle and road in Way Abung, on a per
family basis is as follows:
Constant 1976 $
Rubber development                         930
Cow                                        290
1,220
Roads                                      300
1,520
8.10      Approximately one additional job per farm family would be created by
the proposed improvements of the already existing smallholdings.



- 44 -
8.11      The economic return to the proposed settlement upgrading computed
using the same shadow price assumptions as in Baturaja is about 19%. A 25%
increase in infrastructure costs coupled with a 20% reduction in food crop
yields would reduce the rate of return to 14% (Annex 17). The high rate of
return compared to the economic return to new settlement reflects the level
of sunk investment in farm establishment and physical infrastructure.
D. Conclusions
8.12      The project would benefit the economy of Indonesia directly in
terms of employment and income creation, increased food production and rubber
exports, and benefits to the areas of settler origin in Java. It would also
add to the infrastructure base for regional development of Southern Sumatera.
8.13      The institution building aspects of the project and the closely
monitored testing of settlement designs and agricultural production systems
would have long run benefits in ensuring a sounder base for future trans-
migration programs. Monitoring and evaluation of the test projects should
have the direct benefit of identifying aspects in the design where future
cost reductions could be obtained or cost effectiveness increased.
8.14      The benefits of the project would accrue to transmigrants whose
present and expected future incomes in the area of origin would clearly be
below the relative, if not absolute line of poverty. The distributional
impact of the project is therefore clearly favorable.
8.15      In proposing this project, GOI and Bank staff recognize that several
technical, organizational and budgetary approaches to be employed in this
project are of necessity innovative and, therefore, untested. In particular,
the farm plans to be implemented in the new settlement at Baturaja hold the
risk that the yields attained in annual rainfed cropping may turn out to be,
on average, lower than projected due to the as yet unknown interaction between
the proposed farming system, the environment and the adaptability of the
settlers to these factors. Similarly, the rubber yields might turn out to be
lower than projected if the smallholders do not follow the prescribed fertil-
izer regime and yield to the temptation of overtapping in order to supplement
their near-term incomes. Our protracted analysis of alternative formulations
of upland settlement projects in Indonesia has led us to conclude that there
are clearly numerous ways to balance considerations of settler welfare,
economic feasibility, replicability and the above mentioned risks. Careful
consideration has been given to alternative formulations of this project
which, through a greater initial Government investment for the establishment
of a larger tree-crop area, would provide a greater margin of safety againt
shortfalls in settler income and the economic rate of return. However, high
level discussions in the Government have confirmed an overriding concern with
Indonesia's overall resource constraints and with the future replicability of
this test scheme on the scale which Government considers desirable for its
transmigration program. The attendant risks of the proposed test scheme have



- 45 -
been carefully analyzed and discussed with Government during appraisal and it
has been concluded that timely provision of extension and other agricultural
support services can significantly reduce these risks. Most importantly,
however, the Government's decision to proceed with a test scheme which, at
this stage, poses, of necessity, risks to the participating settlers is
matched by a commitment [para. 9.02 (c)] to take, if it should be required,
timely ameliorative action. On the Bank's side, the decision to participate
in the financing of these test schemes will in turn be matched by a commitment
to provide for intensive supervision of this project. This will probably
require a total of 40 man-weeks of staff time in the first year.
8.16      Government recognizes that the following conditions will be
crucial for the success of the project:
-    a mode of operation of the PMU which enlists the fullest
cooperation of the regular line departments of DGT and
their Government agencies;
-    an active role of the major transmigration coordinating
committees at the national, provincial and district levels
in planning and monitoring of the project;
-    the fullest commitment of the participating Government
agencies to the role outlined in their respective
Memoranda of Agreement with DGT;
-    the continued use of consolidated budget documents;
-    earliest possible implementation of the project monitoring
arrangements;
-    earliest establishment or strengthening of the extension
services and BIMAS program organization in the project
areas;
-    earliest possible formulation and implementation of a term
lending program for smallholder tree-crop development; and
-    earliest establishment of the health services with particular
emphasis on the malaria control program.
With the assurances obtained from GOI as set out in Chapter IX, the
proposed arrangements for project implementation are suitable to reach
these objectives.



- 46 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Agreement  was reached with GOI on the following:
(a) an operational definition of "minimum subsistence requirements"
to be used in project monitoring and to be applied in the
administration of food aid and other labor intensive programs in the
project area (para. 4.11);
(b) final draft rubber planting and maintenance contract between
DGT and PNP X (para. 5.09);
(c) draft Memoranda of Agreement between:
(i)  DGT and DOA/DGFD   (paras. 6.20 and 6.30)
(ii)  DGT and DOA/ARD    (para. 6.19)
(iii)  DGT and DOA/DGLS   (para. 5.11)
(iv)  DGT and Bina Marga (para. 6.20)
(d) implementation program for conveyance of land titles to the
transmigrants, prepared by DGT in consultation with Agraria
(para. 6.22);
(e) draft terms of reference and implementation program of the project
monitoring system as proposed in Annex 12 (paras. 6.22 to
6.24).
9.02      The following assurances  were obtained during negotiations:
(a) that a study of credit requirements necessary to support
tree crop development, would be conducted and the implement-
ation program reviewed with the Bank by July 1, 1977 (para 6.17);
(b) that the arrangements necessary to extend the BIMAS program
coverage to the settlers in Baturaja and to strengthen the
operations of the BIMAS program in Way Abung will be made
within one year after loan signing (para. 4.11);
(c) that up to year six after settlement when the rubber comes into
tapping, whenever food crop production and off-farm employment (in
infrastructure construction and rubber planting and maintenance) are
insufficient to meet the minimum family subsistence requirements GOI
would introduce input grants and other suitable programs in the
Baturaja project area to supplement family incomes to this minimum
level (para 4.11);
(d) that modifications in the consolidated budget system which has
been adopted for the project for fiscal year 1976-77 will only
be introduced in consultation with the Bank (para. 5.06);



- 47 -
(e) that road construction on force account would not exceed 30%
of the total cost of road construction under the project
(para. 5.07);
(f) that vehicles imported under the proposed project would be
exempt from existing import restrictions (para. 5.10);
(g) that quality and cost controls would be established and
enforced (para. 5.15);
(h) that the Accounting Adviser would be appointed within six
months after loan signing (para. 6.13);
(i) that BUUDsfKUDs would be established by the sixth year in the
settlement areas so as to take over the fertilizer and inputs
supply, and rubber development and marketing functions (para
6.17);
(j) that each settler would receive Hak Pakai (right of exploita-
tion) certificate for his house lot within three months and to
his food crop area within one year of settlement (para. 6.21);
(k) that project monitoring and surveys would commence within six
months of loan signing and would be conducted in both Baturaja
and Way Abung for at least five years (para. 6.24);
(1) that an adequate number of BRI village units would be established
in Way Abung within one year of loan signing and in Baturaja
within one year of the establishment of each village (para.
6.32);
(m)  that in cooperation with DOA an agriculturalist would be appointed
to each village manager's staff in both Baturaja and Way Abung
within six months after loan signing to act as extension agent
(para. 6.30).
(n) that health facilities would be introduced into both project
areas at levels of service and on a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.06).
9.03      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) appointment of the project director, the two site managers
and the head of the PMU accounting unit (paras. 6.08
and 6.13);
(b) appointment of a consulting firm, acceptable to the Bank, to
assist the PMU in the detailed planning and implementation
of the project (para. 6.09);



- 48 -
(c) signing of the rubber planting and maintenance contract between
DGT and PNP X (para. 5.09); and
(d) signing of Memoranda of Agreement between DGT and DOA/DGFD,
DOA/ARD, DOA/DGLS and Bina Marga respectively (para. 9.01 [c]).
9.o4      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$30
million, for a term of 25-year term, including a grace period of 6 years. The
Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population , Migration and Rural Employment 1/
A. An Overview
1.        The problem of development in rural Java can be best described
in terms of its overall abundance of labor force, scarcity of land and low
levels of productivity. During 1961-71 the population of Indonesia grew
at an average annual rate of 2.1 percent. Over the next 20 years survival
rates are expected to continue to improve, while fertility-rates will decline.
Assuming a slow decline in fertility and an improvement in survival rates,
Indonesia's population is projected to increase by nearly 2.5 percent per
annum between 1971-86 and at the rate of 2.4 percent from 1986 to 1991.2/
This will lead to an increase in the labor force of 2.4 percent per annum,
averaging roughly one million a year.
2.        The  majority of Indonesia's population (about 64 percent) lives on
Java which has less than 7 percent of total land area; the resulting density
of over 600 per square km is one of the highest among the agricultural coun-
tries in the world. Nearly 83 percent of the Java population lives in rural
areas. 3/ Java's population is expected to increase at the rate of 2.3 percent
between 1971-86 and by 2.25 percent per annum between 1986-91. 4/ This will
1/   This annex is based on a preliminary report on Agro-Industrial Centers
in Java, prepared by a reconnaisance mission that visited Indonesia in
November and December of 1975, consisting of Messrs. 0. Nijhawan and
B. Abadian (Bank) and G. Temple (Consultant).
2/   The rate of decline in fertility does not make much difference to the
likely size of population in the first 10 to 20 years, though the dif-
ference cumulates over time.
3/   All municipalities, regency capitals and other towns with a population
of not less than 30,000 inhabitants, are considered urban areas.
4/   Fertility rates of 5.1 percent on Java in 1971 were already lower than
on the outer islands. Between 1971-91 fertility rates decline from 5.1
to 4.2 and life expectancy of males increases from 46.4 to 55.1 and those
of females from 46.4 to 57.5. For details see 'Population Trends and
Prospects in Indonesia' - a draft annex to Bank Report 780-IND, Chapter 1.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
result in an increase in labor force of 2.3 percent per annum between 1971-76,
2.4 percent from 1976-81 and 2.2 percent between 1981-91.1/ Even an accelerated
decline in fertility will not affect the expected large increases in the labor
force over the next 15 to 20 years.
3.        Indonesia, particularly Java, is thus faced with the problem of
creating adequate employment to absorb this rapid expansion of labor force
as well as for those currently unemployed. 2! With the increasing supply of
excess labor force, people take whatever work they can find even for miserable
wages. 3/
4.        Since 1968 considerable progress has been made in raising crop pro-
duction (over 4 percent per annum) through introduction of HYV's, development
of irrigation and considerable use of fertilizers. Because of population
growth in an economy where 70 percent of the labor force still find its
livelihood by working tiny plots 4/ or by working as laborers per worker
productivity is extremely low.
5.        In 1972 5/ output per worker in agriculture in the provinces of
Java varied between Rp 39,000 and Rp 62,000 thousand. There were, however,
1/   Participation rates in ages 20-59 are assumed to remain unchanged.  For
ages 10-14, rates would decline at a linear rate to zero by 2001; for
ages 15-19 and 65+ rates would decline at a constant-rate of 1 percent
per annum; for ages 60-64 rates decline at a constant rate of 0.5 percent
p.a.
2/   According to the C Series of the 1971 census, incidence of unemployment
in Java was 2.3 percent, while E Series indicated an unemployment rate of
8.3 percent. No rural/urban split in unemployment is reported. However,
these differences in unemployment rates seem to be caused by the procedures
adopted in the compilation of C and E series.
3/   In Klaten Regency, in 1972 farm laborers made Rp 30-100 per day, other
laborers Rp 50-125 per day and a peddler Rp 50-150 per day. In Lembah
Juana area wages were as low as Rp 10-25 (without food) for half a day's
work in planting and weeding activities, and Rp 25 (plus one meal) for
half-a-day's hoeing. See 'Changes in Rice Farming in some Areas of
Asia,' Satyawacana Christian University, Salatiga, 1972, p. 60 and
Agro-Socio-Economic Survey in Jratunseluna Area, Satyawacana Christian
University, Salatiga, May 1973, p. vi(a).
4/   80% of all farms on Java are of less than 1 ha; 55% are of less than
0.5 ha.
5/   Latest available Regional income data.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
considerable disparities in incomes, depending upon the size of farm, the
quality of land and the distribution of ownership. 1/
6.        Though two-thirds of the rural familes operate "farms" of more than
0.1 hectare, the number of landless and near landless has been roughly esti-
mated at one-third of the rural labor force. 2/ In addition great majority of
the farmers cannot support themselves and their families by incomes earned
only from their own farms. Various surveys show that almost two-thirds of
families in some villages must rely on employment off their farms to meet
basic needs; farming for the rural population of Java has become a part-time
activity. In East Java only 59 percent of the household heads included in an
Agro-Economic Survey rely on farming for their major source of income. The
majority of those who depend on farm labor as their first source of income do
not have a second source of income. 3/
7.        Families with very small plots and the landless survive by work-
ing as laborers or doing odd jobs:  tapping a few coconut trees for small
amounts of sugar; fattening one or two borrowed calves by obtaining forage
from remote and scattered areas; extracting small amounts of salt in bamboo
piles.  These activities mean considerable utilization of a great part of
the existing labor force at extremely low levels of productivity: 7 percent
of the rural labor force is employed in industry; 10 percent, in trade;
10 percent, is in services; and 3 percent is in other activities. Low
productivity in the service sector (excluding government), petty trade and
small handicrafts is also indicative of under utilization of existing labor
force. 4/ Most low productivity activities have become overcrowded due to
1/   There are very few large farms of more than 5 hectare (less than 0.5
percent of the total number of farms), yet they represent nearly 6
percent of the total area. In some villages nearly 20 percent of Sawah
land is used to provide income for village officials (Tanah Bengkok).
See Penny and Singarimbun, Population and Poverty in Rural Java: Some
Economic Arithematic from Sriharjo and Changes in Rice Farming in Sehebot
areas of Asia, Satyawacana University, 1972.
2/   Agricultural Land Tenure Pattern in Villages of Java, unpublished
Bappenas Document, May 1973, p. 9.
3/   Collier and Sajogyo "Village Employment, Sources of Income, Use of High
Yielding Varieties and Farm Laborers in Major Rice Producing Regions
of Indonesia" Agro-Economic Research Paper No. 11, June 1972.
4/   There are no data which cross-classify families in different consump-
tion/income groups according to occupation, size of holding, extent of
dependence on wages, self-employment and seasonality of work and number
of days or hours worked. It is therefore, difficult to measure under-
employment or establish any relationship between incomes and nature of
productive activity.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
to lack of more renumerative opportunities elsewhere. Incomes of those
engaged in these marginal activities can increase only with increases in
productivity and total output in commodity producing sectors.
8.        The problem is thus not one of open unemployment, but one of under-
employment and low productivity.l/ The problem of creating jobs for new
entrants to the labor force is thus further complicated by the need to improve
the levels productivity for the majority of those currently employed.
B. Labor Force Projections, 1971-1991
9..       Given the general rate of population growth, the future size of
Java's rural population and work force will depend upon the levels and trends
assumed for out-migration from rural areas to the outer-islands and to urban
areas of Java. Three alternative population projections are made for rural
Java, representing a rapidly, moderately and slowly growing rate of migration
to the outer-islands, while urbanization rates 2/ on Java remain the same in
all projections.
Migration Estimates
10.       Migration rates depend, to a large extent, upon Government efforts
towards successful sponsored transmigration and creation of productive employ-
ment opportunities in the outer-islands in order to encourage spontaneous
migrants. According to the 1971 census, net migration from Java to the outer-
islands during 1961-71 was about 400,000. During 1966-71, however, gross
migration to Java grew at a rate of approximately 5.6 percent, while gross
migration from Java including an annual component of 19,000 transmigrants de-
clined by nearly 3.2 percent per annum. Annual gross flows during this period
have been estimated at 64,000 migrants to Java and 84,000 from Java. Based on
past experience, net in-migration to Java in 1975 is estimated at nearly 6,000.
The historical decline in net out-migration from Java has probably been due to
the concentration of resource-based capital intensive investment in the outer
1/   There are no data which cross-classify families in different consump-
tion/ income groups according to occupation, size of holding, extent of
dependence on wages, self-employment and seasonality of work and number
of days or hours worked. It is therefore, difficult to measure under-
employment or establish any relationship between incomes and nature of
productive activity.
2/   Urbanization on Java is assumed to grow at the rates experienced during
1961-71 - 4.2 percent per annum, 2.2 percent was due to natural increase
and 2 percent due to in-migration. In 1971, 18 percent of the population
of Java lived in urban areas. The percentage is expected to increase to
around by 1991. The age and sex structure of rural-urban population over
projected period retains pecularities existing in the base year, 1971.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
islands, insufficient efforts in transmigration and the labor intensive
character of investment on Java.
11.       With goals of stabiity and rehabilitation having been reasonably
achieved during Peletia I, the Government is now emphasizing provision
of employment opportunities in the outer-islands. Out-migration can there-
fore be expected to grow as government programs are accelerated with inten-
sification of efforts in building infrastructive on the outer-islands.
Furthermore, creation of employment opportunities on the outer-island can
also be expected to slow-down the flow of migrants to Java.
12.       Taking into consideration historical trends, it is assumed that
the growth rate of in-migration to Java remains constant until 1975, that
the growth rate falls to 2.8 percent in 1976 and is zero in 1977; in-migra-
tion is then assumed to decline at 0.5 percent in 1978, 1.0 percent in 1986
and 1.5 percent per annum until 1991. Out migration from Java is assumed
to decline at 2.8 percent per annum to 1975, 1.6 percent per annum for 1976
and then to increase at 1.0 percent per annum until 1986 and 1.5 percent for
the years up to 1991.
13.       Gross population movements calculated on the above assumption
(while include a constant annual rate of 19,000 for transmigration) have
been adjusted to reflect officially reported levels of transmigration:
19,000 for 1971; 27,250 for 1972; 57,000 for 1973; 63,000 for 1974; 19,000
for 1975; and 55,000 for 1976. Furthermore, three alternative levels of
growth in transmigration are assumed for the period 1976-91: a low estimate
of 5 percent per annum; a moderate rate of 10 percent; and a high rate of 20
percent per annum until 1981, 15 percent until 1986, and 10 percent per annum
until 1991. The results are shown below in Table I.
TABLE I: Out-Migration Projections from Java
(Persons in Thousands)
Based on Accelerated Efforts          Spontaneous/Based on
Period           Low       Medium         High            Historical Trends
1971-75          185.3       185.3         185.3                 298.9
(actual)
1976              55.0        55.0          55.0                  53.5
(estimated)
1977-81          319.2       369.3         491.1                 276.6
1982-86          407.3       594.9        1061.1                 295.6
1987-91          519.3       958.0        1848.6                 321.6



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Projection Results
14.       In 1971 the total population of Java was estimated at 78 million of
which 14.2 million were located in urban areas and 63.8 million in the rural
areas. Under the various assumptions mentioned in the previous section, the
rural population of Java in 1991 results in 89.4 million (slow growth in
transmigration), 88.8 million (medium growth in transmigration) and 87.4
million (high growth in transmigration) respectively. This means that even
under more optimistic assumptions of transmigration, new enterants to labor
force in rural Java over the next 15 years (1976-91) will number nearly
7 million, only 12 percent less than that projected under an assumption
of slow growth in transmigration.
TABLE II: Demograhic Characteristics of Java: 1971-1991
Under Varying Levels of Transmigration
(million persons)
Changes in Rural
Total Population  Rural Population  Rural Labor Force         Labor Force
Low  Medium High  Low  Medium High  Low  Medium  High  Low   Medium   High
1971   78.1  78.1  78.1  63.9  63.9  63.9  24.8   24.8  24.8
1976   87.5  87.5  87.5  70.0  70.0  70.0  27.2   27.2  27.2  2.37   2.37    2.37
1981   97.8  97.8  97.7  76.4  76.3  76.2  29.7   29.7  29.7  2.48   2.48    2.43
1986  109.3 109.0 108.6  82.9  82.7  82.2  32.2   32.2  32.0  2.55   2.47    2.32
1991  121.7.121.0 119.6  89.4  88.8  87.4  34.8   34.5  34.0  2.53   2.36    2.01
15.       The assumed high level of transmigration implies an out-migration of
484,000 during 1971-75, (as compared with the Repelita II target of 1.25
million transmigrants) 767,000 for 1977-81, 1.36 million for 1982-86 and
2.17 million for 1987-91. This is equivalent to creating over two million new
work places for Javan migrants during 1976-91 on the outer-islands. This will
be in addition to jobs required for the natural labor force growth of nearly
2.4 percent per annum on the outer-islands.
16.       These projections also imply a tremendous increase in urbanization on
Java--from 18 percent of the total population in 1971 to nearly 27 percent in
1991. Given the 1961-71 trend in urbanization, the urban population of Java
will increase from 16.8 million of the total in 1975 to over 32.2 million in
1991 (assuming all migrants to Java are settled in urban areas); the urban
population on Java will almost double between 1975-91. This means that urban
employment must grow by over 4 percent per annum.
17.       The rapid increase in Java's urban population will have significant
implications for the socio-economic development of urban areas, particularly
in the light of existing inadequacies in social infrastructure and the capital



ANNEX 1
Page 7
intensive nature of past-development. So far, only a small proportion of
the migrants from the rural areas have been able to find jobs in the modern
sector, while majority must work in the traditional and informal sectors
where productivity and wages are extremely low. The continued increased
flow of population to the urban areas is likely to increase the share of
labor force in low productivity sectors. Also, as Jakarta is now practi-
cally closed to any significant flow of migration from rural areas, the
development of 'secondary towns' on Java will assume considerable importance.
This will require a determined effort at decentralization of industry, with
generous incentives favoring labor-intensive development.
TABLE III: Java: Urbanization 1971-91
(persons in thousands)
In Migration
Total Growth      Natural Growth  Total   From Java   From Outer-Island*
1971-76       3,247              1,600        1,647       1,271              376
1976-81        3,989             1,800        2,189       1,787              402
1981-86       4,901              2,100        2,801       2,418              383
1986-91        5,866             2,300        3,566       3,207              359
*Assuming all migrants to Java go to urban areas.
18.       The implications of high growth in transmigration and urbanization
in terms of opening up of new areas on the outer-islands and urban job creation
are quite complex for planning and implementing urban and outer-island develop-
ments; yet out-migration can at best solve only a fraction of the problem of
population pressures in Java.
19.       If the organizational, administrative, and financial resources become
available for urban and outer-island development described above, seven million
new jobs will need to be created in rural Java during 1976-91, in addition to
concerted efforts at raising productivity of those who do not currently pro-
duce enough to support themselves and their families at an acceptable minimum
standard of living. The magnitude of the effort is formidable particularly
since 70 percent of the existing labor force is already involved in agriculture
on an island where no more new land can be exploited. On the other hand, a



ANNEX 1
Page 8
failure to tackle the problem of rural Java would mean a still greater push
towards the cities where the socio-economic costs of creating an equivalent
number of jobs is far greater. 1/
TABLE IV: Distribution of Increase in Rural Population of Java
(million persons)
Net Increase in
Total Increase   To Java    To Outer-Island   Rural Population
Without Migration   Urban    Low  Medium  High  Low  Medium  High
1971-76              7.9             1.3       .5    .5      .5   6.1    6.1    6.1
1976-81              8.8             1.8       .6    .7      .8   6.4    6.3    6.2
1981-86              9.7             2.4       .7    .9    1.4   6.5    6.4    6.0
1986-91             10.6             3.2       .8   1.3    2.2   6.5    6.1    5.2
C. Employment Opportunities in Agriculture
20.       Generally speaking the crucial question for most of the rural popu-
lation is not one of jobs in the sense of wage employment, but it is the avail-
ability of land and supporting services to farm it well and obtain reasonable
incomes, but the supply of agricultural land on Java is scarce. Technology can
improve the productivity of land and in some instances bring about small
increases in supply by reclamation and increased cropping intensity, such
instances on Java are also rather limited. The scarcity of land limits the
labor absorptive capacity of agriculture. The spread of industrialization and
urbanization might encroach further on agricultural land.
21.       Out of a total surface area of 13.4 million hectare on Java, 8.8
million ha, or 66 percent, is already under crops (1 million ha under permanent
crops and 7.8 million ha of surface area under cultivated crops, excluding
home gardens and fruits.) Another nearly 3 million ha, or 22 percent, are
1/   Excluding cost of land, a minimum standard house has been estimated by
Chipta-Karya to cost Rp 20-25 thousand per sq meter compared to Rp 10-15
thousand for rural areas. An average minimum standard house in urban
areas will have 45 sq meter covered area, while rural demonstration house
is built with 75 sq meters as covered area. Land development per unit
housing in Jakarta costs twice that of the cost of the house. Labor
content in urban housing is 20% of the cost, while for rural housing it
is 33% (including cost of gotong royang). Also, rural housing uses far
less imported material.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
classified as forest reserves. 1/ These estimates of surface area under crops
may be somewhat on the high side as they leave only 1.5 million ha or 12 per-
cent of the total surface area for house compounds, garden plots, fruit pro-
duction and non-agricultural lands such as grassland, inland waters, roads
and settlements. This means that in 1973 there were 8.5 persons per culti-
vated hectare in rural areas of Java; by 1991 the number of persons per ha may
increase to 11.5. Some land (about 240,000 ha) can be brought under new
irrigation. this area will come from land not now cropped, upland crops and
village irrigation, etc. Some increase in intensification can be accomplished
through rehabilitation of irrigation systems (about 850,000 ha) 2/ which may
increase the average cropping intensity from 1.33 to 1.4.  Although adequate
information is not available, there may be some possibility of increasing
irrigation through the use of groundwater. Some intensification could also
occur through the use of animal power 3/ and simple mechanization.   There is
also considerable scope for increasing production of secondary (rainfed) crops
(Polowijo), fruits and vegetables and some livestock (particularly poultry and
rabbits, etc.) by spreading BIMAS program for such activities and through
intensive use of house plots.
22.       Though these measures may permit an increase in agricultural produc-
tion on Java at the rate of 4-5 percent per annum, the spread of mechanization
may have adverse consequences on the already precarious employment situation
in Javanese agriculture. According to the 1971 census nearly 70 percent of
the economically active labor force (about 17 million) in rural Java was
reported to be engaged in agriculture 4/. Labor intensive agriculture on Java
and the impact of new technology in agriculture has induced many estimates of
labor in rice production. 5/ The following estimates of labor coefficients in
1/   These figures were compiled by the Agricultural Consultant on the Basic
Economic Mission in 1974 after surveying data from various sources; such
as CBS, National Fertilizer Study, Department of Agriculture, the Agri-
culture Sector Survey.
2/   IBRD Irrigation Program Survey, April 1975.
3/   Due to lack of fodder, animal power is inadequate.  On the other hand,
there is already evidence of use of some hand tractors.
4/   Thirty-six percent work on own account, 6 percent are employers, 31
percent employees and 27 percent unpaid family workers. In Jogjakarta
and Central Java, the ratio of unpaid family workers is much higher than
other provinces, partly reflecting the size distribution of land, and
partly perhaps lack of off farm employment opportunities.
5/   Sayogyo and Collier's "Employment Opportunities created by HYV's in
several areas of Java" 1972. Birowe's "Aspek Kesempatam Kerja dalam
Pembargunam Pertanian di Pedisaan," in Prisma, 1973. Peter Van der Goot's
"Employment in Food Production on Java."



ANNEX 1
Page 10
principal crops were developed by a Bank Mission in 1974 from the data avail-
able at that time.
Labor Use in Principal Crops
(man days per ha, 5 hours per day)
Java & Bali             Outer Islands
Rice                               325*                     150
Maize                              121                       90
Cassava                            200                      180
Rubber                             120                      120
Oil Palm                            75                       75
Coconuts                            50                       50
*This compares with Sayogyo's estimtes of 293 for IR, 282 for National
improved varieties and 232 for local varieties, and Birowe's estimates
of 283 days/ha for L.V's, 352 for IR's and 290 days for P.B. Varieties.
23.       Based on these rough labor coefficients, employment in agriculture
on Java in 1973 may be estimated at about 17.2 million, consisting of 150
days per year working for 5 hours a day. If labor coefficients were to re-
main the same for 1985 (the time when irrigation rehabilitation and new
irrigation projects are expected to be completed), employment in agriculture
would increase by about 2 million man years or 11 percent.
24.       Labor use in rice production on Java is more than twice that in the
outer islands. 1/ Notwithstanding the additional labor needed on Java for
irrigation, technological improvements, (the use of animal or mechanical power
for land preparation and adoptation of sickles for harvesting) are likely to
reduce future labor utilization on Java. The use of the 'Tebasan' 2/ system
in harvesting and increasing commercialization of agriculture are furthermore
likely to reduce employment in agriculture on Java.
25.       Agriculture output on Java has shown impressive increases during
1968-75 due mainly to introductions of new technology (improved irrigation
and introdcution of high yielding varieties, fertilizers and pesticides).
But the impact of technology on employment and income distribution appear
not to have been consistent with the objectives of Repelita II. Though
these income and employment effects have not yet been quantified, new
technology appears to have been accompanied by increased commercialization
of peasant-agriculture on Java. The result is the gradual breaking down
of the 'involuted' Javanese system of production which gave village resi-
dents their right of participation in agricultural production and hence
1/   In the Philippines on an average 60-65 man days are used per ha of rice
production.
2/   Selling rice crop before the harvest to a middle man.  This system limits
the number who can join the harvest and lowers total harvesting wage. But
is profitable to the rice farmer.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
income. The following are some of the indications which seem to be affect-
ing incomes and employment adversely:
(1) Increase in the incidence of 'Tebasan System' and the
use of sickle are reducing labor requirements. 1/ Har-
vesting as a supplementary income for small farmers and
the landless is thus shrinking. Also, Ngepak-Nagedok
(labor plants and weeds, but does not get paid - instead
is allowed to harvest rice and gets a bigger share) is
being used to limit the number of harvesters.
(2) As mechanical threshers are being adopted by large farmers
and rice huller operators, landless laborers are loosing
one more source of income.
(3) The Bimas intensification program has benefited those who
have adequate sized farms. Perhaps ony 25 percent of the
villagers have sufficient fields to benefit adequately
from HYV's. 2/
(4) Some land tractors are already in use, such as in the
Subang Kabupaten. For each 5 horse power tiller adopted
and used at three-fourth capacity, 128 and 688 man days
are lost per year for displacement of Kerban and manual
methods respectively. 3/
(5) Between 1969-73 money wages increased substantially,
though real wages, in terms of Kg of rice, showed a sub-
stantial decline. 4/
(6) In some villages (due to technical problems or very
uneconomic size of holdings) some agricultural land
is being sold to bigger farmers or to absentee land-
lords.5/
1/   See Widya Utami and John Ihalaw "Some Consequences of Small Farm Size"
BIES, Canberra, July 1973. Also Collier, Gunawan and Wiradi and Soentro,
"Recent Changes in Rice Harvesting" Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies,
July 1973.
2/   Sayogyo, Modernization Without Development in Rural Java, p. 23.
3/   Richard A. Morses.  "The Potential Impact of Mechanical Land Preparation
in Indonesian Small Holder Rice Production Sector, 1975, p. 101.
4/   See Mkali's "Upah Buruh Tani Pada Tanaman Padi Dikatkan Degan Kenaikar
Produksi dan Harga Padi Selama Lima Tahur Di Dua Pulah Disa Sampel
Intensifikasi Padi Sawah Di Jawa", 1974, p. 30.
5/   Sinaga and Collier, "Social and Regional Implications of Agricultural
Development Policy," Nov., 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
26.       Another area in which technical change has spread widely is rice
processing. Motor powered rice hullers have replaced hand-pounding of rice,
particularly affecting female labor. By 1973 roughly 60 percent of rice was
milled in large and small rice mills, compared to 20 percent in 1968 1/. A
shift in paddy processing of this magnitude for the 1973 gabah crop of 13.6 m
tons on Java eliminated work equivalent to nearly 225 million people days.
Rice mills would have required about 13.5 million people-days to process the
same quantity of gabah at nearly one-eighth of the total wage bill. This
means a considerable gain to farmers and owners of paddy from the reduced cost
of processing and the increased recovery rate of rice (from 50 percent of
gabah to 62 percent). The introduction of new technology in agriculture thus
seems to have benefited those who already own land.
27.       No studies have been made on other indirect effects of increased
rice production on Java. Certainly some increase in employment has occured in
the distribution and production of inputs, transportation, and manufacture of
tools and equipment. With capital intensive production and heavy dependence
on imports (rice hullers are imported), total indirect employment effect
cannot have been significant.
28.       The above indications of change in social relationships are only
the logical consequence of introduction of new technology. New technology
requires new relationships. In the short-run these trends can perhaps be
softened, but in the long-run the social changes imposed by the use of new
technology cannot be checked without significant loss of production. The
issue is not one of reversing trends in agricultural technology for the
sake of employment, but one of expanding production in other sectors so that
alternative employment opportunities are created.
29.       Given the present levels of productivity and land distribution those
engaged in agriculture can not earn enough to support themselves and their
families at acceptable standards of living. Only the small proportion of
families who have enough land can depend solely on agriculture; those with
small plots or lands of inferior quality must supplement their incomes from
other sources. The landless can depend only on wage employment. 2/ As future
increases in agricultural production on Java are expected to come mainly from
higher yields, the employment effect is unlikely to be significant even though
incomes of those who own land will increase.
30.       The capacity of agriculture on Java to absorb more labor has
reached its limit: the incomes of many of those now engaged in agriculture
can only be raised by creating alternative employment opportunities.
1/   Collier, Colturm, Sinarhadi and Shaw, "Choice of Techniques in Rice Milling:
A Comment," March 1974, Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies, March 1974.
2/   Employment opportunities in agriculture for the landless are however dec-
lining, particularly in harvesting due to increasing use of sickles and
the Tabasen system.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
D. Employment Through Rural Public Works
31.       In addition to essentially production oriented agricultural programs,
Kabupaten Programs (INPRES) are by far the most significant effort made by the
GOI to create employment opportunities. 1/ Allocations to Kabupaten are
on a flat per capita basis, increasing from Rp 50 in 1970-71 to Rp 400 in
1975-76. In 1973-74 an incentive scheme was introduced; those Kabupaten which
had reached their target on the collection of land taxes (IPEDA) became
eligible for an additional allocation.
32.       The main objective of these programs is to capitalize on the present
abundance of labor in order to create productive infrastructure and wage
employment. Employment provided, however, is neither full-time nor permanent.
33.       INPES projects through 1972-73  rehabilitated infrastructure (market
roads, irrigation systems, bridges, flood control embarkments, drainage
systems, produce markets, fish landing stations bus stations as well as
reforestation). A shift towards new projects started in 1973-74 when the
program was expanded to include Primary School construction, Health Centers,
and rural water supplies. Separate allocations were made for these programs
which for the whole of Indonesia amounted to Rp 16 billion and Rp 4.5 billion
respectively in 1974-75. For FY 1976-77 two more INPRES aids are to be added:
a Market INPRES for Rp 5 billion and Reforestation INPRES for Rp 16 billion. 2/
34.       Though it is difficult to precisely measure the permanent income
and employment effects of these projects, various studies 3/ indicate that
1/   INPRES - was started in 1970-71 under special instructions of the Pre-
sident. There are also other minor programs, such as Provincial Sub-
sidy (one third of the total subsidy is for maintenance of rural roads
and irrigation); Padat Karya started as food for work program in 1963.
Desa (village) subsidy though important in stimulating rural develop-
ment is based on mutual help (gotong-royong) where no wages are paid.
2/   Budget Speech of the President, Jan. 7, 1976.  Allocations are for
the entire country.
3/   Official estimates of direct employment created by INPRES program during
the first four years, 1970-74, are placed at nearly 149 million man-
days, or about 500,000 jobs (300 working days a year). About 270,000
of these may be in rural Java. These employment estimates are essentially
rough as they are based on planned expenditure figures. Actual employment
creation may have been somewhat less or more. More important however,
is the effectiveness of the program in reaching low income groups and
in creating indirect employment and production. A Gadah Mada University
study shows the backward linkage effect to be about one-third (34.5
percent) of the total labor used by the projects; the forward linkage
amounted to less than 3 percent of the total labor used. Another study
Padjadjaran University) shows that most of the beneficiaries of direct
employment generation were from among the poorer groups.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
INPRES projects have had substantial employment and output creation effects.
INPRES programs are primarily oriented towards raising agricultural production.
While they provide incomes to those employed in the programs, they permanently
help those who own land.
35.       While this gradually expanding program has made an impact in rural
Java, it can be regarded as only a temporary solution to the rural employment
problem. There is a need to intensify and diversify this program in a manner
that it puts an equal emphasis on development of non-agricultural sectors.
36.       While the INPRES program encourages wage employment, the Desa
subsidy program revolves around 'gotong-royong' - traditional voluntary
labor arrangements. The amount of subsidy given to each village increased
from Rp 100,000 ($241) in 1970-71 to Rp 300,000 in 1975-76. The Central
Government provides funds only for the purchase of materials not available in
the village. Local materials and labor must be provided by the village
itself for small village projects under the program. The rich provide materials
the poor have only labor to provide. The assets created contribute little to
the incomes of the poor.
37.       There are also supplements to village subsidy - the harmony aid -
based on the strength of 'gotong-royong' in a particular village or special
aid (Keserasian) - a balancing program for selected poor villages.
38.       These programs have helped Kabupaten and local governments to create
planning and implementation capacity which is an extremely useful asset for
future enhanced efforts at development.
E. Conclusion
39.       The GOI is aware of the severe employment problem in rural areas
of Java and recognizes the insufficiency of the current efforts including the
limited impact of the Transmigration program. Additional efforts are now
underway in the context of regional planning to prepare programs which
would generally aim at employment creation utilizing agro-industrial small
enterprises.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HISTORY OF TRANSMIGRATION IN INDONESIA
A. Introduction
1.        In its widest sense transmigration in Indonesia refers to the relo-
cation of people, who in an effort to improve their economic situation,
migrate from densely populated area with few employment opportunities to less
populated areas, offering development prospects. Government has placed
particular emphasis on an organized transmigration program since World
War II, even though historically there have been both organized and spon-
taneous outflows of people from Java to the outer islands since 1905.
2.        The transmigration with which this project is concerned, refers
only to migration of landless or near landless farm families from Java to
the outer islands. The flow of transmigrants is organized by the Ministry
of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives. The Ministry, with the help
of other GOI ministries and agencies, prepares and implements settlement
schemes and recruits labor for private and public employers, with the ex-
ception of estate labor, for which the Director-General of Estates in the
Ministry of Agriculture is responsible. Universities, churches, and the
Ministry of Defense have been involved in settlement schemes also.
B. Overall Migration Between Java and the Outer Islands
3.        Surveys of interinsular passenger traffic and shipping, official
transmigration records and population censuses give indications of inter-
insular migration even though comprehensive records are not available. One
analysis 1/ of these various data sources, covering the period 1960-1964,
estimated the annual flow out of Java at 112,000 migrants and the annual
flow into Java at 59,000 (40% of which came to Jakarta, thus showing a net
outflow of 53,000 persons. More than half of the gross outflow consisted of
spontaneous migrants, the remainder being government financed civilian and
ex-services settlers, and contracted estate workers.
4.        In the period 1950-1973, almost 120,000 families, or roughly
550,000 persons, were resettled, without taking into consideration the
unrecorded number of free transmigrants. It is estimated that in recent
1/   G. McNicoll, Net Migration between Java and the Outer Islands.
Bulletin of Indonesia Economic Studies, March 1969.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
years there has been a net outflow of population from Java to the outer
islands of 35-50,000 people per year, mostly to Lampung and Sulawesi. This
net outflow may partly account for the fact that population growth on Java
during 1966-1971 has been slower than on the outer island - 1.9% per annum
versus 2.4%.
C. Transmigration Before World War II
5.        Official transmigration dates back to 1905.  The Dutch colonial
administration attempted to alleviate the population pressure in parts of
Java by colonization of the outer islands. For this purpose, they designed
and implemented special irrigation projects. From the beginning the program
met with enormous difficulties. The settlers suffered a high disease and
death rate from malaria and dysentery, and many chose to return to Java. The
experiment proved very expensive to Government, and until about 1929, it had
to compete with the recruiting agencies of the plantation organizations in
the outer islands, who tried to discredit the program for their own purposes.
6.        After 25 vears on continuous transmigration efforts, the movement
finally gained momentum in the 1930's due in part to the years of severe
economic depression which stimulated the supply of transmigrants, and in part
to the well-organized recruiting campaigns in Java. The number of settlers
increased gradually until it reached about 53,000 persons in the peak year
of 1940. Farmers received about 3/4 ha of sawah land (irrigated rice) and
1/4 ha for a house plot. Most transmigrants timed their arrival to coincide
with the main rice harvest so they could earn money and a fixed share of the
produce by helping with the harvest. With their earnings and the help of the
receiving families, they could settle on irrigated land. However, this so-
called "bawon" system placed excessive reliance on already established
settlers, and made it impossible to increase the rate of settlement. Addi-
tional shortcomings of the settlement policy were clear. There was an over-
emphasis on sawah, i.e. subsistence irrigated agriculture based on rice and
the settlers were socially isolated both from the local inhabitants and
from their relatives on Java.
7.        Of the recipient areas, Lampung Province was the most important
for these early transmigration projects, followed by schemes in Sumatera
Salatan Province. Transmigration was also organized to special areas in
Bengkulu, South and East Kalimantan, South and South-east Sulawesi, Jambi
and IWest Sumatera Provinces; however these were small projects and had
received not more than a few thousand Javanese settlers by 1941.
D. Transmigration After World WIar II
8.        The spontaneous movement persisted after the war, and even led
to optimistic estimates of million-family transmigration programs that would
stop Java's population growth or even decrease it. However, conditions in



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the settlement areas of Lampung and Sumatera Selatan Provinces had deter-
iorated. Maintenance of the irrigation systems had lapsed with severe
consequences, and there had been no new irrigation construction. An in-
creasingly pressing problem, accelerating in the 1950's was the denudation
of the existing forests, soil erosion, and the conversion of large areas
into unproducting alang-alang fields. The situation in the old settlement
areas became more critical: under-employment, concentration of land into
fewer hands, indebtedness, and similar social ills grew to unacceptable
dimensions.
9.        There were three distinct groups of migrants:
(a) officially sponsored migrants -- Government paid their fares
and they were settled on a Government settlement scheme.
(b) Spontaneous migrants -- They paid their own fares, but were
settled on a Government settlement scheme and received some
assistance (food, building materials, etc.).
(c) Free migrants -- They paid their own fares and settled
whenever they found available land, outside of Government
schemes.
It is unlikely that the social composition of free or spontaneous trans-
migrants differed significantly from sponsored settlers. By far the
majority of all categories were originally small landowners or landless
laborers.
10.       Since 1969 the spontaneous element in transmigration has been
incorporated in the official GOI program in order to minimize settlement
cost and to allow Government to exercise some control over the free move-
ment. Prospective settlers who are able and willing to pay their own
transport to the new areas and other expenses, can apply to the Trans-
migration Recruiting offices for resettlement in Government schemes. In
the meantime, free transmigration is still continuing since the waiting
time for official migrants is usually very long and because economic
prospects for official transmigrants are not much better than for free
settlers under the limit of two ha/family existing until and even into
1974.
E. Recruitment
11.       There is clearly no shortage of prospective settlers for the
Government program. Applications far exceed the official vacancies pro-
vided. In Central Java transmigration officers estimated this ratio at
10:1. There is an intricate interplay between incentives and dis-
incentives. Poverty of individual families, exploitation by landlords,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
social conflicts, small size of holdings and the desire to escape in-
debtedness are all incentives for the potential transmigrant, together
with the desire for economic security and, in particular, ownership of
land.
12.       Disincentives include the historical family and social ties of
the village, and the influence exerted by village heads as landlords or
leaders of rural industries who fear loss of power and influence. Lack of
education and the narrowness of villages' mental horizons are also important
disincentives. When the extremely poor person leaves his village, he is
more likely to join the labor force of estate workers or to join the urban
unemployed. Since 1950 about half the transmigrants came from Central Java
(including the Special Region of Jogjakarta), a quarter from East Java,
and the rest from West Java, Madura, Bali, and part of Lombok. These pro-
portions reflect conditions in these areas: Central Java is an area of
pronounced low income, low labor productivity, and a very high population
density.
13.       Though there are some general priorities with respect to areas
having suffered natural calamities or areas where substantial resource
degradation is occurring, recruiting is actually done by national target
and quotas. The national target is split into provincial targets, and these
into district targets.
14.       Recruitment is essentially oriented towards family transmigration.
Group settlement, in the sense of transmigration of many families from the
same area at the same time, is mentioned in present transmigration policy,
but in fact there is no evidence of sustained effort to follow this policy.
In the receiving areas also group transmigration might accelerate social
and economic development. There is evidence that villages built on cores
of homogenous groups are more successful than if they consist of scattered
migrants. These groups can also function as a nucleus to generate a sub-
stantial flow of follow-on settlers. Group cohesion provides a sense of
security that leads to necessary group action and community self-reliance,
which is particularly important for adjusting in the early years of settle-
ment.
F. Selection and Placement
15.       Settlers for the Government sponsored transmigration program are
selected on the basis of the following criteria:
-    Indonesian citisenship
-    Married
-    Age 20 to 45 years, no family member older than 60



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Agricultural experience and skill
Maximum family size of five
Non-pregnant wife
Good political record
Good police record
Agreement to follow transmigration regulations
-    Has never transmigrated before.
The transmigration process goes through a number of stages during which the
families are accommodated in transit camps. Upon arrival at their destina-
tion, they are received in large lodging houses or temporary shelters until
their individual houses have been constructed. Presently GOI policy is that
permanent housing is completed prior to the arrival of settlers.
16.       The costs of recruitment and placement show an average cost per
fully financed transmigrant family of US$600 as against US$100 per spon-
taneous settler family. A fully financed transmigrant receives:
-    Free food allowances for eight months,
-    A house or material for a house,
-    A two ha. plot of which one ha is field and 1/4 is
cleared homeyard,
-    Agricultural roads and some equipment,
-    Medicine, seedlings, etc.
The spontaneous migrants pay their own travel expenses and apart from some
smaller items, only receive two ha. of land from Government to be cleared
themselves.
17.       The settlers receive use rights (Hak Pakal) to be converted into
a title of full ownership (Hak Milik) in due course. Officially, the
migrants should receive their Hak Milik titles after five years, but in
practice this takes 10 to 15 years. For reasons of social and economic
security, and to have collateral for credit transactions with official
banks, AGRARIA is attempting to issue Hak Pakai title deeds some months
after settlement, but they are many years behind in their work. Ownership
rights are not subject to any clauses regarding inheritance, fragmentation,
performance, etc.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
C. Population and Transmigration in Lampung and Southern Sumatera Provinces
18.       The total population in the Provinces of Lampung and Sumatera
Selatan is about 6-1/2 million, with slightly more than half in Sumatra
Selatan Province. The population growth rate in Lampung shows the remark-
able average annual percentage of 5.2% over the 1950-1961 and 1961-1971
periods; this is more than two and a half times higher than the Indonesian
1961-1971 average rate of 2%. The population growth rate in Sumatera
Selatan Province was 2.0% during the period 1930-1961 and 2.2% during
1961-71. The urban population (towns with more than 10,000 inhabitants)
represents about 18% of Lampung Province, 47% of whom live in the provincial
capital of Tanjung Karang/Telukbetung, and about 31% in Sumatera Selatan
Province, of which more than half live in the capital city of Palembang.
The high growth rates are reflected in the age distribution; in 1971, 48%
of the total population in Lampung and 46% in Sumatera Selatan Province were
less than 15 years of age.
19.       There is a high rate of intra-provincial migration, i.e. heads of
families born in other areas in the same province. In Lampung, where the
number of internal migrants seems to be increasing, it is believed that
part of this movement stems from the migration of Javanese from the over-
populated zones in south and central Lampung. Other important regional
movements in Lampung are the migration of local people around Mlenggala
towards the two pepper belts around Kasui in the west and Sukadana in the
south east.
20.       The average immigrant family size at the time of arrival was
calculated for 3.3 for Lampung and 2.9 in Sumatera Selatan Province and
most were young married couples with the family head about 25-27 years old.
These figures probably contain some underestimates and the family size is
now believed to be about five.
H. The Receiving Community
21.       Transmigration does not take place into a vacumm, but functions
as part of the development of a locality with an established social fabric.
The impact of settlement is substantial on both the indigeneous population
and the migrants because:
-    the local social and economic organization and culture pattern
is different from that of the Javanese settlers;
-    integration in the socio-cultural sense, appears to be a
highly complicated process. Mligratory situations do not
facilitate per se the assimilation of groups within an
existing society. In reality, the new settlements try to
keep together and to preserve their identity.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
land ownership and land tenure are the most crucial issues,
both for transmigration and for the economic development of
Sumatran people.
I. The Pasirah-Marga System in Southern Sumatera Province
22.       Of particular importance in the integration process as well as
the process of alternating land for settlement are land ownership issues in
receiving communities. Land in Sumatera Selatan Province is controlled by
the marga, which is the traditional community grouping of the indigenous
Sumatran people in a particular locality, headed by an elected or hereditary
chief called the pasirah. The power of the pasirah and the marga stems from
two sources: Namely, from customary or "adat" 1/ law, and from government
regulations. The pasirah system functions as the lowest autonomous unit of
Government; it has the right to govern the households both according to gov-
ernment precepts and according to adat law. It has the right to levy certain
taxes and has its own budget.
23.       Historically, the marga-pasirah system developed during the early
19th century in the Sultanate of Palembang, a maritime kingdom, where the
margas functioned as territorial-political units and paid tribute to the
Sultan. Under Dutch colonial administration the pasirah was appointed by
descent, although in the pre-colonial days he was elected. The pasirah
functioned as head of the marga government and the marga council (legis-
lative body) as well as head of adat and the adat court. His office col-
lected large revenues through adat-prescribed taxes, auction of marga fish
ponds and rivers, and auction of the right to collect a 10% rubber market
tax. The pasirah earned a large personal income since in addition to a
salary, he was entitled to 10% of the adat-prescribed taxes and payments.
24.       After independence, government authorities refrained from inter-
vention in the local pasirah's elections and strengthened his rcle as the
head of the marga government. However, the marga-adat council was abolished
and the pasirah could no longer be the head of the marga council, thus
separating executive and legislative power. In addition, the higher admin-
istrative levels of government have taken over some of the adat revenues.
25.       The main reason for changing the system, relate to the power of
the pasirah and in particular his access to revenue sources. However, many
pasirahs stil come from traditional family lines and wield considerable
influence on marga administrative affairs, as well as adat affairs, in spite
of Government's efforts to reduce the feudalistic aspects of the pasirah
system. The present nature of the system may have decisive consequences
I/   Adat is a system of traditional legal and religious laws, deeply
embedded in Indonesian society.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
for the socio-economic development of Sumatera Selatan Province, as
well as an important effect on transmigration efforts.
J.  The Marga System in Lampung
26.       The marga system in Lampung Province differs historically and
functionally from that in Sumatera Selatan Province. Historically, there was
no dominant sultanate in Lampung, and functionally, the marga was not a
political unit, but rather an adat organization. The marga consisted of a
loose federation of numerous villages (kampungs) which shared similar
historical backgrounds and adat. In other words, the marga in Lampung was
originally more a genealogical than a territorial unit. The Dutch admin-
istration abolish the system in about 1900, but in 1928 attempted to revive
it as an administrative territorial unit. The marga system never regained
its strength and influence, and after independence government replaced it
with a new administrative and territorial unit -- the negeri, a specific
autonomous organization for Lampung Province and Bangka and Belitung islands.
27.       Of late, the Negeri system is being phased out to make way for the
"normal" organization of Kabupaten (district), kecamatan (sub-district) and
villages. However, even though the marga has been dissolved as an admin-
istrative unit, it continues to function as an adat unit. The kepala
kampung (village chief) remains powerful as adat-head.
K. Land Rights Under the Marga System
28.       On the basis of adat law, land rights are vested in the marga.
Members of the marga do not exercise any individual ownership and the
pasirah and the marga council dispense rights of use. When a villager
wants to move to other fields, he applies to the pasirah and the marga
council, who decide his request, taking into account the rights of other
claimants.   Fields that have not been under cultivation for a certain num-
ber of years (except for treecrops) automatically revert to the marga.
Sawah fields and perennial treecrops, such as rubber, cloves, pepper and
coffee, complicate the land use system. Although land under these crops can
be abandoned - which frequently happens - it does not automatically revert
to the marga and cannot be freely cleared and cultivated unless one comes
to terms with original user and the pasirah. This partly explains the ex-
istence of large stretches of "sleeping" rubber, practically or totally
untended, and often barely distinguishable from surrounding rubber forest
areas awaiting high market prices for exploitation by the owners. This
process leads to more or less permanent plots with treecrops.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
29.       Outsiders are allowed to settle on and to use marga territory
after agreement with the marga chief and payment of an agreed fee (uang
ulajat). After agreement and payment of the fee, they acquire the right of
use (without becoming members of the marga community), but the marga retains
the right of disposal with respect to the land.
L. Land Rights Under the Basic Agrarian Law
30.       Until recently, two separate systems of law regarding land were
in force: western law and adat law. In an attempt to abolish this dual law
system, the Basic Agrarian Law (BAL) was enacted in 1960. The BAL explicitly
recognizes the adat community's right of disposal, but stipulates that the
right must be subjected "to conform with the national interest of the State
based on national unity". Therefore, once Government plans to alienate land
for transmigration schemes, the adat right of disposal would not be allowed
to stand in the way.
31.       In practice, alienation for transmigration schemes takes place
after negotiations are held between the pasirah and his council, on one
side, and the local administration and AGRARIA, on the other. Remuneration
depends on the condition of the land, the bargaining position of the parties
involved, and whether or not local people can be taken into the government
settlement areas. Although these negotiations may take considerable time,
the attitudes of most marga heads seem to be favorable towards transmigration.
After completion of negotiations, compensation is paid to the pasirah, and
land is officially transferred to the Government, thereby falling into the
state's possession and consequently outside marga jurisdiction.
32.       In many cases when implementation of a transmigration scheme is
delayed, local people start cultivating officially transferred land because
they believe that, according to adat principles, uncultivated lands should
revert back to the marga. On the other hand, sometimes the authorities make
a start with settlements before negotiations and local cultivators.
M. Relations Between Transmigrants and the Local Population
33.       The local people in general derive direct and indirect economic
benefits from transmigration. Although the willingness to receive new-comers
is apparent, the attitude is not free of ambivalence; the locals are wary of
settlement intrusions, but on the other hand regard the settlement scheme as
an opportunity for increased local public expenditure, the benefits of which
can be shared by both indigenous people and new-comers.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
34.       The relationship of the local population with the transmigrants
depends heavily on the land tenure relations, since the marga members con-
sider themselves "sons of the soil" and particularly resent the uncontrolled
and often devastating invasions of free transmigrants. During the 1950's
and 1960's, when settlement in Lampung and Sumatera Selatan Province was
particularly disorganized, much resentment arose with the local population.
35.       The cultural and social patterns of transmigrants and the in-
digenous population differs considerably. There are also distinctions
between the different local ethnic groups in Lampung and Sumatera Selatan
Provinces, but these are only minor, and the groups seem in social and
political harmony with each other. When there are a local people in trans-
migration schemes, they tend to be "encircled" by transmigrants, rather than
included. Conversely, the Javanese settlers show no need for social or
cultural integration with the host communities, and the rate of inter-
marriage is reported to be limited.
36.       There is a lack of coordination between settlement schemes and with
the kabupatens, reflected in the problems of coordinating general services in
the transmigration areas. The transfer of settlement schemes to the local
authorities in some cases has taken 10 to 15 years, which has seriously
hampered the transmigration program. The present government and the pro-
vincial governors are doing all they can to overcome these problems and con-
tinual cooperation at national and Provincial level should overcome them.
Present Practice and Procedures
37.       Under the provisions of the Transmigration Act, transmigrants are
entitled to obtain land rights in accordance with the prevailing laws. A few
years ago, a limited number of transmigrants were given Hak Milik (full owner-
ship - equivalent to freehold title) rights to land immediately upon settle-
ment. However, the Department of Transmigration and Agrarian found that such
settlers alienated the land very soon afterwards, thus defeating the letter
and spirit of the transmigration laws in effect at that time. In practice
settlers receive no documents of title upon arrival.
38.       To ensure that transmigrants would remain for at least a certain
minimum period of time, the Ministry of Transmigration decided that land
rights would be given to transmigrants in two steps: (a) initially the
transmigrants would receive Hak Pakai (right of use) rights and, (b) after
proving that the land which they were occupying was developed and productive,
they would be given Hak Milik rights. The initial issue of Hak Pakai with
a view to later upgrading it to Hak Milik is stipulated in the clarification
of Clause 7 of the Basic Stipulations for Transmigration, Statue 3 of 1972.
In practice only a very few settlers have receive Hak Pakai certificates.
The bulk of the certificates issued have not been formally registered by
Agraria under Art. 19 of the Basic Agrarian Law, No. 5 of 1960. The
reason given is usually that a fresh plan of each allotment must be pre-
pared for registering the Hak Pakai decree.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
39.       The land rights in Transmigration Areas are obtained according to
Clause 11 (2) of the Transmigration Act, i.e. Agraria frees the land from all
rights and gives the Ministry of Transmigration the right to manage the land
for transmigration purposes. The right of management obtained by the Ministry
of Transmigration is in one of two forms: (a) Hak Pengelolaan (right to
exploit which is granted to self-governing regions or government bodies),
entitles the holder to use the land, or transfer Hak Pakai rights to other
parties, or (b) Hak Penguasaan (controlling right) which entitles the holder
to arrange and decide upon the purpose of the land in the area covered by
this land right.
40.       DGT receives Hak Pengelolaan rights for each settlement area, upon
its transfer from Marga control. To transfer landrights from DGT to the
local Provincial Directors of Transmigration, by a joint decree of the
Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Transmigration. This author-
ity allows the granting of certificates of Hak Pakai through the form of a
decree, and contains the following provisions:
(a)  An actual survey must be carried out indicating precisely
the area covered by the decree;
(b)  The right of Hak Pakai is granted for a period not exceeding
five years and can be upgraded to Hak Milik rights if the
holder complies with the conditions stipulated in the decree;
and
(c) The conditions stipulated in the decree are as follows:
(i)  land must be used by transmigrant himself;
(ii) transmigrant and family must live on land;
(iii)  land or rights attached thereto cannot be transferred,
mortgaged or leased;
(iv) Hak Pakai rights transfer to heir at death of holder
only if death of holder registered within six months
thereof;
(v)  violation of (i) - (iv) above can result to withdrawal
of Hak Pakai; and
(vi)  if Hak Pakai withdrawn, rights avert to provincial
Director of Transmigration.
The issue of the Hak Pakai decree is limited in its usefullness to DGT
because an actual survey of the area is not usually available.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
41.       The right of Hak Pakai can be granted only for a period not
exceeding five years. The decree is, therefore, not valid on the expiry of
5 years.  If, in the meantime, the Hak Milik decree is not issued, the trans-
migrant settler has no valid document of title. This is what generally
happens because the Hak Milik decree and its registration are delayed be-
cause of the requirement for a further survey. In some provinces, e.g.,
South East Sulawesi, this difficulty has been overcome by the issue of a
provisional certificate pending the preparation of the plan (Sertipikat
Sementara).
Proposed Changes in Practice and Procedures
42.       The principal difficulties with the current procedures relating
to the issuance of Hak Pakai rights to transmigrants are as follows:
(a) The decree requires that a detailed boundary survey be
carried out by Agraria. This alone often means that
the transmigrant receives no written evidence of his
land rights before the first five years of settlement
are completed;
(b) The decree requires the Hak Pakai to be upgraded to a
Hak Milik. There is no intermediate type of land right
which can be granted. This means the Hak Milik rights
must be registered in accordance with strict Government
regulations; and
(c) The decree is not signed by the transmigrant. Since the
stipulated conditions in the decree are never affirmed
in writing by the transmigrant himself, the transmigrant
may object thereto, refuse to comply with the conditions
and may even attempt to alienate the land.
In practice, however, it appears that Hak Pakai decrees are being issued to
transmigrant settlers without a formal map and without registration by
Agraria. The permit has no legal force beyond being a recognition by the
Transmigration authorities that the allottee named in the Hak Pakai decree
has been permitted by the authorities to occupy the allotment. This would,
in a way, be adequate security for thee transmigrant settler because,
during the period of its validity, the Transmigration authorities hold the
right of management (Hak Pengelolaan) of the whole Transmigration area.
43.       It is proposed that a simplified procedure be followed.  After a
plan of any specific area has been prepared, rather than having Agraria
undertake a detailed survey of each plot, a copy of the plan would be
registered in the provincial Agrarian office, the Kabupaten Agraria office
and in the office of the Ministry of Transmigration in the Transmigration
Area. For each plot indicated in the plan, there would be recorded in the
registry, including such data as the name of the transmigrant, date of



ANNEX 2
Page 13
arrival, and family members. A detailed survey of the plot would not be
required; the preliminary indication of plot area in the plan would be an
acceptable basis for the issuance of the Hak Pakai certificate. This how-
ever would require a change in the law.
44.       The certificate of Hak Pakai right would be given to the trans-
migrant by the provincial Director of Transmigration, immediately after
the transmigrant arrives on the land. This certificate would refer to the
plot number(s) on the plan and would be valid only if signed by the trans-
migrant.
45.       The registration of the Hak Milik right need not wait for the
five years to elapse. Agraria have arranged to survey and register the Hak
Milik rights prior to the fifth year in projects in South East Sulawesi.
This practice should be extended to other transmigration areas.
46.       Consideration should be given to a simplified process for issuing
Hak Milik rights. As the volume of transmigration increases, the burden on
local Agrarian offices cause long delays under current staffing levels and
with the present procedures.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Basis for the Future Transmigration Program
A. Lands Available for Transmigration
1.        In the major outer islands of Sumatera, Kalimantan and Sulawesi most
reasonably fertile lands suitable for irrigated rice production and rainfed
arable crops have already been taken up. The lands which remain for trans-
migrants are those which have been bypassed in the development process. Be-
cause of the technical constraints which limit their usefulness for sustained
economic production, other than for tree crops such as rubber and oil palm
many have been used and abandoned because of poor results.
2.        Such lands fall into two broad classes:
(a) swamps and tidal lands with peats and acid
sulphate soils; and
(b) uplands and free draining terrace lands with red
and yellow podsolic soils of low natural fertility.
It is estimated that of some 18 million ha of unused tidal and swamp lands
about 2 million ha are acid sulphates of doubtful potential. Much of the
estimated 30 million ha of red/yellow podsolic soils presently unused are
covered with: (a) open alang alang 1/ vegetation resulting from shifting
cultivation and fire, which has destroyed the original forest cover, or
(b) secondary forest interspersed with seedling rubber planted on a shifting
cultivation basis and abandoned. Primary forest persist only in the most
sparsely settled and remote areas.
B. Implications for Agricultural Development
3.        One of the major tasks to be performed in the transmigration
areas is development of cropping systems which could form the basis of sus-
tained farm output. On selected sites in the tidal and swamp areas some
successful rice cultivation is being achieved through drainage and con-
trolled irrigation. Other sites in tidal areas may be more difficult and
1/   A stoloniferous weed grass (Imperata cylindrica) which seeds freely,
is fire resistant, and is difficult to eradicate.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
costly to develop. Existing transmigration schemes on the better delta
soils produce one rainfed rice crop annually, and although initial yields
are high even without fertilizers and other inputs, there are likely to be
problems in sustaining yields. On red/yellow podsolic soils in the upland
areas, there are wide variations in land capability. Sustained production
of rice, maize, and legumes such as beans and groundnuts, is difficult with
current agricultural techniques. Success with these and other annual crops
depends on maintaining or improving the fertility and physical condition of
the soil. This can be done on the more favorable sites on a small scale by
composting, green manuring, crop rotation and applying fertilizer and animal
manures. On the less favorable upland soils, perennials such as rubber and
oil palm are ecologically better suited and are presently the only crops
capable of being economically produced on a large scale.
4.        In addition to these broad generalizations, each transmigration
site has its own specific conditions and problems and will require its own
agricultural development solution. Land capability (as determined by soil,
slope, drainage, etc.), cost of development, market prospects and ease of
access differ between sites. Inevitably the farming system on most of the
available upland soils must rely on rubber or possibly oil palm as the major
cash crop. Reliance on a single crop subjects the farmers to the vagaries
of world markets and is clearly not an ideal solution. A farming system
which includes both tree crops and annual crops would be preferred to pro-
vide cash income and food production. Until more knowledge of sustained
annual cropping systems is available, (the importance of expanding research
into this cannot be overrated) transmigrant farm development must be based
essentially on tree crops with a minimum sustainable subsistence food out-
put.
5.        The potential role of cattle should be considered in the develop-
ment of farming systems for the upland areas. Cattle manure could be used
to improve fertility and physical condition of the soil on the small areas
needed for family food crops. It would be necessary to cut and carry
folder and crop residues to tethered cattle. Cattle would also provide
draft power, and the young stock could be sold for cash. It has yet to
be demonstrated that ley farming (a successful system in many temperate
zones) can succeed on such tropical soils.
6.        Present government policy is to provide each transmigrant family
5 ha in upland rainfed areas. This farm size would be adequate to meet
incomes parallel to the general growth of Indonesia's economy provided the
farm family could cultivate about 1/2 ha of annual food crops together with
about 3 ha of mature high yielding rubber. Until multiple cropping systems
are developed, 2 ha would be needed for a simple rotational system of annual
food crop production (1/2 ha/year) and for supplying cattle feed. On more
favorable lands, intercropping immature rubber with food crops is sometimes
possible, but most lands available for transmigrants are unsuited for this.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        Transmigrants are normally young families with two or three
children of early school age and in the first few years of settlement a
family can offer at most 1-1/2 man/years labor equivalent, increasing to
about 2 man/years or slightly higher by the 5th to 8th year after arrival.
The average transmigrant family would not be able to establish a 3 ha rubber
area and an annual food crop area without additional labor and mechanized
cultivation.
8.        Since a high yield rubber crop is not easy to establish and trans-
migrants seldom have any acquaintance with the crop, they would require super-
vision in planting and maintenance during the immature period. Furthermore,
ploughing and disc harrowing supplemented by carefully controlled chemical
spraying programs would be necessary to get rid of the heavy grasses. Pro-
bably the most reliable approach would be to engage experienced contractors,
such as Government estate enterprises, to clear and block plant at least
part of a 3 ha rubber area, leaving the farmer to complete the rest as his
labor availability permits and as he gains experience.
9.        Developing and expanding a sound transmigration program in which
settlers would be self sufficient in food production would involve a greatly
expanded program of trial cropping systems. It involves also a careful
assessment of land capability and physical planning for each specific
location to take account of variations in soil, slope and drainage. Finally,
it demands the active participation of all government agencies serving agri-
cultural planning and development.
C. The Project's Role in The Agricultural
Aspects of the Transmigration Program
10.       World Bank support through the project would focus on the keys to
future expansion of the transmigration program as a whole. Project actions
include support for:
(a) Land capability appraisal and land development
planning for future transmigration areas (Annex 4);
(b) testing and demonstrating farming systems for rainfed
uplands and tidal areas (Annex 4);
(c) holding ground to service the distribution of cattle
to future transmigration areas, and a cattle procure-
ment and distribution program for the project areas
(Annex 6);
(d) establishment of a new settlement area in Baturaja, as
a demonstration of the agriculture based development
planning options (Annex 5); and
(e) rehabilitation of an existing settlement area at Way
Abung, using these same techniques (Annex 5).



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSIIIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Support For Forward Transmigration Program
The Program
1.        The Government target is to settle 80,000 sponsored and 170,000
spontaneous transmigrant families on about 1.2 million ha of land during
Pelita II (1974-79). However, the program is behind schedule 1/, and it is
unlikely that the target will be revised downward to total 86,000 for the
plan period. During the next three years it is estimated that 40,000 families
will be settled on Government sponsored projects. This will require aerial
photography, semi-detailed soil survey and land capability appraisal of some
200,000 ha of land. The success of the program relies heavily on finding
better farming systems for the different types of available land (Annex 3).
A. Project Formulation Assistance
Air Photography
2.         Few transmigration sites have been covered by aerial photograph.
What little is available mainly in Sumatera Selatan Province was photo-
graphed at scales of 1:50,000 upwards before 1970. In 1975, however, about
250,000 ha was flown for transmigration projects on which preparation is to
be initiated (Tulang Bawang and Lahat/Tebing Tinggi). When fully prepared
these projects are likely to be proposed for Bank financing.
3.        The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) is responsible for coordinating mapping, survey and aerial
photography for GOI agencies. Under the project, contracts would be placed
through this agency for some 200,000 ha to be photographed at 1:20,000
scale, with two copies of prints, mosaics and a broad land use interpreta-
tion from the mosaics; this would be sufficient to meet the needs of Gov-
ernment sponsored schemes over the next three years.
4.         Several Indonesian companies have built up their aerial photo-
graphy capacity primarily to serve the oil industry. Together with the
facilities of the Survey and Mlapping Division (JANTOP) of the Department
of Defense, there is adequate equipment to cover the aerial survey needs
of the tansmigration program.
1/   Actual settlement 1974 - 6,000; 1975 - 8,000.



ANDNEX 4
Page 2
Soil Survey and Land Capability Appraisal
5.        The Soils Research Institute (LPT) of the Department of Agricul-
ture, located in Bogor, is responsible for soil surveys and mapping through-
out the country. A five-year US$1.5 million FAO/UNDP project, initiated in
1973 is helping LPT to increase its technical capability in land development
evaluation and planning by providing 400 man months of technical assistance
lor soil survey, soil correlation, land classification, aerial photography
interpretation, land capability appraisal, map production, agronomy and
farm management economics. Due to the cut back in FAO/UNDP funds this team
would have been withdrawn from LPT in June 1976. GOI has requested finance
under this project for 61 m/m of consulting services and overhead expenses
to maintain this technical assistance team in place until the end of the
original 5-year period.
6.        LPT's FY75 program called for surveying 600,000 ha at 1:50,000
scale, with only about 10% of this for the transmigration program (due to
survey needs for sugar and irrigation development). However, they will not
meet their target because of the lack of vehicles and survey equipment, the
inadequacy of the laboratory equipment, and the shortage of technical ex-
pertise. The FAO/UNDP assistance program is providing training for addi-
tional staff, but it will be two or three years more before the full impact
of this program will be realized. The present project would provide equip-
ment and facilities to increase the overall capacity of LPT and would finance
local or internationally recruited consulting services sufficient to cover
200,000 ha of soil and land use surveys and land capability assessment and
mapping to fulfill the needs of the transmigration program.
7.        Consultants would undertake physical planning of at least one
transmigration site of about 50,000 ha to be prepared under the project.
Their services would cover the basic soil and land use surveys and outline
physical planning, including preliminary engineering of roads and infra-
structure for the first year's implementation of the project. LPT or their
consultants would produce land capability maps at a scale of 1:20,000 to
allow at least semi-detailed agricultural planning, including the location
of major crop areas, farms and settlers housing, village sites and main
y,id  'i rlrents.
x.        Past transmigration planning has suffered by taking an urban
planning approach with agricultural aspects taking second place. A
major objective of this project is to introduce a land development
approach into physical planning.
Project Preparation
9.        The Division of Planning, Directorate General of Transmigration,
wou3d be responsible for project preparation studies and they would contract
misllltants or other government agencies to carry out detailed physical
-,lanning of infrastructure and preliminary engineering of roads based on
LE'T's maps.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       The Directorate General of Transmigration has limited capability
in project preparation and in assessing the technical, financial, economic
and organizational aspects of proposed investments at different trans-
migrati)nl sLtes. Such work has been done so far by outside consultants on
an ad hoc basis. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program furnished physical
planning consultants to assist in the preparation of this project.
11.       An FAO/UNDP project (US$1.2 million) is providing some 400 man/
months of technical assistance and training to the Directorate General of
Transmigration, aimed primarily at planning, policy guidance and institution
building (Annex 11). This assistance will help in gradually raising the
management capacity of she Directorate, but does not answer an ilamTediate
need for project preparation expertise.
12.       GOI has requested Bank assistance to finance the services of a
resident agriculturalist and an economist (48 m/m), and an additional 75 m/m
of unspecified consultant technical assistance, all specialized in project
preparation. The role of consultants will be to strengthen the Division of
Planning, Directorate General of Transmigration, and to assist in:
(a) identifying transmigration projects for which full
feasibility studies should be performed;
(b) preparing terms of reference for contract studies,
assisting in the tendering process and in bid
evaluation;
(c) supervising specific feasibility studies and making
inputs wherever necessary;
(d) coordinating the involvement of different agencies
involved in project planning and evaluation;
(e) providing continuity between planning aspects and
implementation; and
(f) building up a specialized project preparation capacity
within the Directorate General of Transmigration.
13.       The proposed Bank project would provide the following additional
inputs to develop a capacity for preparing two large (50,000 ha) projects
a year, covering about 200,000 ha over three years:
(a) 80 man/months of short-term consultant technical
assistance;
(b) vehicles and field survey equipment to support the
project preparation activities being undertaken by
GOI agencies themselves or with international or
bilateral assistance; and



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(c) office space, vehicles and facilities for the Division
of Planning and their consultants.
B. Cropping System Trials
14.       The Indonesian Agency for Research and Development (ARD) is res-
ponsible for agricultural research on a national basis. Recently, under
Ln 1179-IND, the Bank financed a research and extension project to improve
and expand at regional stations the research activities for the main crops
in the project area: rubber, rice and secondary food crops. The useful
results which will emanate from this project will supplement but not fulfill
the need for immediate trials on sustained cropping systems for best utiliza-
tion of upland and swamp areas in Sumatera.
Upland Areas
15.       There is little on-going work in the outer islands on upland areas.
Small-scale trials program was initiated with FAO/UNDP assistance at Sembawa
and Belitang under a project "Land and Water Resources Development, South
East Sumatera". Unfortunately the assistance has now ended, and the project
staff disbanded. A program of multiple cropping trials was started in 1974
at Guning Sugih in Lampung, as part of the multiple cropping systems trials
program being conducted by the Central Research Institute for Agriculture
(CRIA) of ARD. The present program is almost exclusively carried out on Java
and is assisted by USAID and the International Development Research Council
(IDRC), in turn supported by Canadian Aid (CIDA).
16.       UNDP has discussed with GOI the possibility of assisting in the
establishment of a much stronger research effort into cropping systems for
the uplands of Sumatera. CRIA is anxious to provide a much greater input
into such areas, and Baturaja has been suggested as a center for such re-
search, but other additional resources required are not presently available.
17.       The project would support an expanded program of cropping system
trials through CRIA including:
(a) expanding its program in Lampung and Sumatera Selatan to
the Way Abung area, the Lahat/Tebing Tinggi area and
the Baturaja area;
(b) providing technical assistance (36 mm), vehicles, and
equipment to help supervise the program in Sumatera; and
(c) providing buildings, machinery, equipment and facilities
for establishing trails/demonstration stations in the
Baturaja project area and the Lahat/Tebing Tinggi area.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
18.       This Bank assistance would not only allow CRIA to establish an
immediate trials program but would also provide CRIA with a better basis
to absorb and use UNDP and bilateral assistance in the future.
Tidal Areas
19.       Small agronomic trials have been started in tidal areas in Sumatera
Selatan (Delta Upang), Jambi (Delta Berbak) and Kalimantan (Delta Pulau
Petak). Work is concerned mostly with rice cultivation and little is being
done on water control, cropping systems, pest control, or on alternative
crops. Various agencies are concerned under the guidance of the Tidal Swamp
Reclamation Project (P4S) of the Department of Public Works. In Kalimantan,
trials are conducted by the University of Gajah Mada, Surabaya, while those in
Sumatera are conducted by provincially based Department of Agriculture staff
and by P4S staff, assisted by the Institute of Technology, Bandung.
20.       The Bank and FAO/IBRD are currently discussing with GOI how best
to proceed with development in tidal areas. Assistance for feasibility
studies, and for formulating a more specific program on cropping and water
management trials is included in the proposed Fifth Irrigation Project now
being appraised by the Bank.



E NOOIi FI_
TRANSMIGRATION AND RUKAL DEVELOPMENT PRuJbCCI
Support for Fowlard Transmigration Program
Cost Estimates
(Constant 1976 $)
COST PUiAS INC
COSTS                               Project
Unit Cost   Number of   Local          Foreign        Total    Foreign        Year 1         2             3              4         5
US$         Units      - - US$ thousands--------   Exchange % ------------------- US$ thousands-------------
A. PROJECT PREI?ARATION ASSISTANCE
(a) Soil and Land CapabilitY Planning (Soils Research Institute, Agricultural Department)
Refinance UNDP/FAO Team                      1'            1'         90.0         234.5          324.5        72         181.5       143.o
4 Wheel drive vehicles                      6,600each    10           16.5          49.5           66.0       75           66.0
Field survey equipment                      misc                       18.6         55.9           74.5)                   74.5
Photointerpretation equipment                                           --          14.5           14.5)                   14.5
Cartographic equipment                         "                        --           4.0            4.0)    100             4.0
Laboratory equipment                          "                         --          10.0           10.0)                   10.0
Office equipment                 2"                                     _           15.0           15.0)                   15.0
Soil survey, land capability,-/              5.0/ha   200,000ha   500.0            500.0        1,000.0        50         500.0        250.0       250.0
consultant services
Sub-total                                   625.1         883.4        1,508.5        59         865.5        393.0       250.0
(b) Project Preparation (Division of Planning, Transmigration Department)
Project Preparation Team                  10,400/mm        48mm      150.0         350.0          500.0        70         125.0        250.0        125.0
Consultant services                         5,000/mm      155mm      232.5         542.5          775.0        70         150.0        312.5        312.5
4 Wheel drive vehicles                      6,600each      20          33.0         99.0          132.0        75         132.0          __           __
Field survey equipment                      misc.                       -           50.0           50.0       100          50.0          --           --
Office facilities                           50/m2/year  8gQm2         84.0          36.0          120.0        30          40.0         40.0        40.0
Counterpart staff                             40C'mm    150miss        60.0          __            60.0         -          20.0         20.0         20.0
Incremental operating costs for            50,000iyear               135.0          15.0          150.0       10           50,0         50.0        50.0
vehicles, local travel etc.
Aerial photography                           0.75/ha   2000,000ha 150.0              --           150.0         -          50.0         50.0         50.0
Sub-total                                   844.5        1092.5         1937.0        57         617.0        722.5       597.5
(c) Cropping Systems Trials (Central Research Institute, Agricultural Department)
Consultant services3/                       5,000/mm       36mm       54.0         126.0          180.0        70          60.0         60.0         60.0
4 wheel drive vehicles                      6,600each       3           4.9          14.9          19.8        75          19.8          -_  I        _
Counterpart staff4/                        21,000/team    2teamas  210.0             --           210.0         -          42.0         42.0         42.0            42.0      42.0
Tractor and equipment 60/70 HP             10,000           2           5.0         15.0           20.0        75          20.0
Field equipment                             misc.                       2.5          7.5           10.0        75          10.0
Fertilizers, materials, incre-                 "                      40,0          10.0           50.0        20          10.0         10.0         10.0            10.0      10.0
mental operating costs                                                                           _          _                         _           _
Sub-total                                   316.4         173.4          498.8        35         161.8        112.0        112.0            52.0      52.0
TOTAL COSTS                                1786.0        2149.0        3935.3         55        1644.3       1227.5        959.5            52.o      52.0
1/  See Table 4.2
2/  Soil survey and land capability @ US$3.00/ha, physical planning @ US$2.00/ha, 50% of work by local contractors.
3/  Supervises LP3 program Baturaja, Lahat/Tebing Tinggi and Guning Sugih trials.
4/ Incremental staff - 1 team includes 1 agronomist, 1 economist, 1 coordinator + 5 field assignments.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area Agriultural Development
A. Introduction
1.        The Baturaja area and the Way Abung area represent typical sites
which GOI wishes to settle, or where settled already, to make improvements.
Bearing in mind the problems facing the agricultural development of such
areas (Annex 3), the project would support GOI activities in these two
settlements. An agricultural development strategy for Baturaja, and a
preliminary rehabilitation plan for Way Abung have been formulated and both
have sufficient flexibility to incorporate any positive results of the
multiple cropping trials on annual crops that will be carried out under the
project (Annex 4). The agricultural development proposed do not claim to be
a complete answer to the needs in either project area, particularly in Way
Abung, where only a limited number of beneficiaries can participate in the
time frame concerned. These development plans would start the farmer off
on a better agricultural basis than were available in past schemes, and
it would give the settlers the opportunity to further develop their farms
according to their individual capabilities and future cropping options.
B. The Baturaja Project Area
The Project Area
2.        The major towns and most lands along the rivers which border
the project area have been settled for decades. The land which has been
made available for the project is land which the local population does
not use intensively because of:
(a) low fertility and poor physical condition for hand
cultivation;
(b) the difficulties of controlling the alang-alang
growth; and
(c) lack of permanent domestic water supplies in the
dry season.
About 2,500 farm families live within the general area made available
for the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.        During project preparation land use surveys 1/ were completed on
32,000 ha, of which roughly 28,000 are within the project site. Present
use is:
10,000 ha already cultivated (Annual crops and
low yielding rubber);
13,000 ha alang-alang;
7,000 ha secondary forest and scrub;
2,000 ha primary forest reserve and swamps
The alang-alang is used on an extensive basis for grazing cattle
and secondary forest/scrub areas for sporadic cultivation, mostly of upland
rice and cassava. Secondary forest has regenerated in the Southwest of the
area where soils are better and is interspersed with seedling rubber planted
by local farmers during shifting cultivation. This rubber has very low pro-
ductivity, and much of it is tapped only when prices rise to unusually high
levels.
Climate, Topography and Soils
4.        Annual rainfall totals about 2,800 mm, with a dry season of about
four months (July to October). Temperatures average about 250C (Table 1).
5.        Topography is undulating to rolling, with gently rounded to flat
topped ridges. Slopes in general are 8-15%, although steeper land is found
in the southwestern portion. Contour planting and/or terracing would be
necessary on the lower slopes.
Proposed Farm Development
6.        Families would arrive usually after the main rice harvest in their
areas of origin, and just before the dry season starts in the project area.
Each settler family would receive a total of 5 ha of land. In the first year
settlers would concentrate on establishing their gardens and orchard areas
(0.2 ha) and an area of food crops (0.3 ha). Upland rice and cassava would
be the major crops. Permanent tree crops (such as bananas, jackfruit, kapok)
and a wide variety of fruits and vegetables would be planted in the garden
are, interspersed throughout the annual arable crop area, and along farm
boundaries (para 34). Such crops contribute extensively to family food
supplies. In the first year of a settlers arrival, DGT would provide food
aid together with the planting materials and seeds for establishing such
garden crops.
7.        In the second year, the farm model (Table 2) assumes that a 1 ha
area of rubber would be block planted, while each family would clear and
1/   Land use survey of the Baturaja area, LPT Bogor, September 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
cultivate another 0.5 ha for food crops. Because more labor is needed for
rubber establishment than a family can provide and settlers would arrive
faster than the rubber planting program, half the settlers would have their
2 ha rubber block planted in the third year. Labor needs have been calculated
for planting both in years 2 and 3 (Tables 6 and 7); delaying the block
planting has not significant adverse effect on farmers' incomes.
8.        The rubber would be planted in blocks of at least 100 ha by PNP X
(Annex 7).  Th  ILad allnration for each year's implementation (physical)
plan would be agreed between the PMU and PNP X. A consultant familiar with
land development planning and implementation would be employed to advise
the project director on the first year's implementation plan, and the plan
would be agreed with the Bank. PNP X would pay regular cash wages to the
settlers for their labor. Land for block planting rubber would be cleared
and cultivated by tractors and equipment, where limited by slope, hand
labor would be used. Two ploughings and two disc harrowings, each inter-
spaced by three weeks, would be effective for alang-alang control. This is
less costly than using herbicides, and ploughing has significant positive
effects on both rubber and cover crop establishment. A legume crop would be
planted in the block planted rubber area. PNP X would handle maintenance of
the block planted rubber until the end of the sixth year. In the sixth,
seventh , twelfth and thirteenth years of settlement, participants would be
expected to plant rubber on their own initiative, utilizing BRI term credit,
in the 0.5 ha area on which food crops were grown in the preceding year.
Family Labor Availability
9.        Detailed analysis of labor calendars 1/ shows that this farm
development plan is the maximum which could be handled by family labor in the
early years, assuming that each family clears and grows 0.5 ha a year for food
crops and that 45 mandays labor a month are available (Table 3-7). Additional
labor (newly arrived settlers and, if necessary, local people) would be
employed in the year of block planting, and the arrival of settlers has been
phased to coincide with the labor needs for the rubber program (Tables 12 and
13). Taking into account the sparse data base for labor calculations and the
difficulties of assessing averaging family performance, it does not seem
reasonable to expect a family to tap and maintain more than 3 ha of high
yielding rubber while growing enough food crops for subsistence.
Crop Areas and Yields
10.       The model assumes that the 0.2 ha garden area close to the house
would be intensively cropped using inorganic fertilizers, compost and animal
manures. It is assumed that 50% of the area would be in cassava and 50% in
a rice/beans crop at any one time. On this small area initial yields of about
8 tons/ha cassava and 1.2 tons/ha padi should increase within 5 years to
1/   Labor requirements are based on PNP X experience, and on data recorded
under the CRIA multiple cropping systems trials (Multiple Cropping in
Indonesia, Syarituddin, Socharsono and McIntosh 1975).



ANNEX 5
Page 4
12 tons/ha cassava and 2.0 tons/ha padi. These yields are being obtained
on a small number of farms in the Catholic settlement area adjacent to the
project.
11.       Settlers would clear a total of 0.5 ha each year until all avail-
able land has been used (year 8). The model assumes that during this period
rice would be planted in November, followed by a bean (or groundnut) crop in
March. Cassava would be established in October of the second year and
normally harvested in the following dry season, a two-year cropping system
commonly used by local farmers in the project area. After the cassava crop,
however, farmers would establish a leguminous foddr crop. Yields with
moderate fertilizer applications on newly opened land are slightly lower
than the carefully tended house garden and are projected at 6 tons/ha cassava;
1.2 tons padi; and 0.6 tons beans throughout this period.
12.       When all new land has been cleared and cropped, farmers would pro-
gressively use the fodder crop for food crops area. The model assumes that
such land would be used on a five-year rotational basis, planting 0.3 ha a
year of the 1.5 ha fodder area in rice followed by beans. Farmers would grow
cassava only on part of the house garden area, sufficient to supply food
needs, since their dietary preference is rice. The leguminous fodder crop
and annual fertilizer applications are expected to improve soil fertility,
and yields would slowly increase over each cycle of cultivation. Yields
are assumed to rise after 17 years to 2.1 tons/ha padi; 12 tons/ha cassava;
and 1.0 tons/ha beans. There is no experience with this system in the area
or under similar conditions in Indonesia, and the yield projections are based
only on expert judgement. They are believed reasonable for the time scale
involved, and would be the subject of an immediate trial program supported
by the project (Annex 4). If yields do not reach expected levels, farmers
would have sufficient income from their major crop, rubber, which can be
further expanded if necessary, to purchase food needs.
Cattle
13.       Each settler family would receive either a cow or bull, in the
third year after their arrival, on the basis of the return heifer system
presently operated by DGT in other settlement areas. They would feed the
animal by cutting and carrying fodder and crop residues (Annex 6). Manure
and compost would be used on the house garden. Calves could be sold for
additional income. Furthermore draft power would be available for transport
and possibly land preparation. Some settlers would opt for planting more
rubber when labor resources permit. Others may prefer to retain stock which
can be fed, or even grazed, using the 1.8 ha not committed to rubber or the
garden lot. Most farmers would probably place priority on meeting family food
needs and are likely to maintain a pattern based on 3 ha rubber, a home
garden lot of 0.2 ha, an additional area of 0.3 ha each year of food crops,
with the balance of 1.5 ha in reserve and used for feeding one or two cattle.
The farm model assumes this pattern.



ANNEX 5
Page  5
Settlement details
14.       Consultants have completed outline physical planning of the settle-
ment layout, cost estimates for infrastructural works, and ground checking of
the first two village sites and 31 km of roads prior to appraisal 1/.  The
settlement area is confined in a first phase to about half of the available
land. Southwest of the project, there are already heavily settled areas.
Near this, but within the project area, there are about 3,500 ha with a hilly
terrain and shallow soils, that will be used for cattle holding ground develop-
ment, but is otherwise unsuited for settlement (Annex 6). Detailed ground
checking of areas adjacent to large villages to the southeast and north seem
certain to indicate that other parts of the project area will not be available
for new settlement.
15.       The exact number of present inhabitants, their location and the
extent of their land claims are only now being determined with certainty.
However, it is expected that there will be sufficient uncontested and suitable
land to support the settlement of 4,500 families. Settlers would arrive in the
project area as follows:
1976  -    500 families
1977  -  1,000 families
1978  -  1,500 families
1979  -  1,500 families
Rubber Program
16.       PNP X would commence rubber planting in 1976 with establishment
of 100 ha for trials, demonstrations and training in tapping techniques.
The first settlers would arrive in 1976 and would concentrate on establish-
ing their house gardens and food crop areas the first year. Large scale
planting of rubber would begin in 1977 when 500 would be established.
The overall block planting program would be:
1/   Baturaja/Martapura Transmigration Project Structure Plan, Huszar
Brammah and Associates, Jakarta, August 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Total               Allocated at 1 ha Each to
1976 Settlers 1977 Settlers 1978 Settlers 1979 Settlers
1977  -         500 ha     500 x 1 ha
1978  -        1,000 ha                    1,000 x 1 ha
1979  -        1,500 ha                                     1,500 x 1 ha
1980  -        1,500 ha                                                      1,500 x 1 ha
17.       PNP X would plant about 550 trees/ha using 3 whorl plants in poly-
bags. Such plants have shown a clear advantage under similar conditions in
Lampung and South Sumatera, with fewer losses, a more flexible planting
season, and coming much earlier into tapping. Earlier closing of the
canopy through the use of advanced planting material and close spacing also
leads to lower weeding costs. PNP X would produce budded stumpsaon existing
estates; the stumps would be put into polybags in nurseries at          project
site. PNP X have sufficient plants for the first 100 ha planting and would
establish sufficient seedlings in 1976 for budding in 1976 to serve the 1977
planting program.
18.       Handing over responsibility to the settlers at the end of the
third year (para 10) is justifiable because:
(a)  rubber planted as 3 whorl polybag material and properly
fertilized under PNP X control would be well grown and
the canopy almost closed;
(b) the cover crop would be almost completely free of alang-
alang;
(c) settlers should have acquired sufficient knowledge of
rubber cultivation under PNP X supervision to bring the
rubber through to tapping; and
(d) settlers would be trained in tapping techniques using
project rubber specifically planted for training
purposes.
19.       However for the next three years the settlers would have to supple-
ment their incomes with off-farm employment: as none is available in the
area, they would continue to be employed on rubber maintenance until the end
of the sixth year.
20.       There is insufficient wood supply in the project area to contemplate
smoked sheet as the main product, and buyers will buy sheet for transport to
larger markets or to their processing facilities, and eithpr smoke or manufac-
ture the sheet into crumb.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Seed Farm, Rubber Tapping School and Demonstration
Area, and CRIA Farming Systems Trials Station
21.       An area of about 200 ha would be cleared and planted to provide
settlers with cassava stems, rice seed, banana shoots and other fruits,
vegetable and cover crop planting materials. Development of the seed
farm will commence in early 1976, and the Bank would permit retroactive
financing for approved equipment.
22.       On the same site an area of about 100 ha would be block planted
with rubber by PNP X during 1976. This area would serve for fertilizer
trials, upkeep demonstrations and for training settlers in correct tech-
niques of tapping. In addition, an area of about 200 ha would be developed
for multiple cropping systems trials and demonstrations to be conducted
by CRIA.
23.       The proposed project would provide the machinery, equipment, and
buildings to serve the 500 ha unit, together with operating costs for the
five year project development period (Table 15).
Organization of Input Supplies
24.       During the early years of settlement, rubber development would
be the main agricultural activity, together with food cropping along tra-
ditional lines for subsistence needs. Seeds and planting material for food
crops would be supplied by the seed farm (para 23) and distributed by DGT
area staff. For each village one agriculturalist would be responsible for
assessing needs, arranging delivery, and offering whatever advice farmers
need. PNP X would supply fertilizers procured at the same time as inputs
for the rubber development under their control.
25.       By the end of the first year in each village, the BIMAS fertilizer
supply program would be introduced together with BRI credit facilities.
This demands a sound village organization, local administration, and the
existence of competent local traders for fertilizer supply and sufficient BRI
staff throughout the area.
26.       During the early period, food cropping techniques would be simple
and there would be little need for extension advice. The project areas are
not priority areas for extension service activity under the system proposed
for Bank support in the National Extension Project. PNP X would give advice
and training for rubber growing in the course of settlers' employment in
rubber development and later by training in tapping techniques (para 24). DGT
would assign to each village an agriculturalist who would report to the senior
agriculturalist on the site manager's staff. When DGT leaves the area after
the project development period, such staff would be absorbed into the local
administrative structure under the guidance of the extension services.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
C. The Way Abung Area Rehabilitation
Agicultural Potential
27.       The Way Abung project area is on a low lying plain bounded on the
north by the Tulang Bawang river, on the west by the Ratem river, and on the
east by the Terusan river and the Menggala/Gunungbatin road. Some 12,500
transmigrants, each with 2 ha farms, have been settled within -ttis area in the
last eight years.
28.       Climatic conditions are similar to those in the Baturaja area with
a four-month, and rather erratic, dry season (Table 1).
29.       The settled areas are flat to gently undulating, with slopes rarely
more than 8%, and at an elevation of about 100 m asl. Some depressions have
permanent surface water, and there are numerous year round streams in the
area. Groundwater lies normally at a maximum depth of about 6m. The area,
prior to settlement was chiefly alang-alang covered, with some pockets of
secondary forest and old rubber.
30.       Soils are mostly deep yellowish/red podsolics derived from sandy
tuffs. They are friable and easily worked, but have low natural fertility.
Reddish brown latosols with higher clay contents occur on higher ground to
the north of the proejct area, and grey hydromorphic soils are found in the
depressions.
31.       With a high level of inputs and intensive cultivation techniques
to raise organic matter and fertility levels, the soils are capable of sustain-
ing annual crops. Farmers in the area have managed in general to become about
self-sufficient in basic foods by intensively cultivating a 1/4 ha garden area
using composts, crop residues, green manuring and organic manures. Attempts
to grow cash crops are confined to cassava, and yields have declined to very
low levels (6 tons/ha) through continuous cropping without fertilizers. Farm
surveys indicate that the average settler produces about Rp 45,000 worth of
fruit and vegetables each year (Annex 16, Table 16.5). Alang-alang control
is a major problem and farmers have rarely brought more than 50% of their
holdings into production. On average farmers spend upwards of 100 man days
each year on off-farm employment to raise their incomes to subsistence level.
Nevertheless, annual crop yields can be increased by fertilizer use and by
introducing cattle manuring and maintaining a sequentially cropped leguminous
forage crop area. There are good prospects for tree crops, especially rubber.
Proposed Farm Development
32.       Most farmers have 1.0 ha of uncleared land available at the
rear of their holdings. This uncleared land is contiguous and could be
block ploughed, cultivated and part planted with rubber. PNP X would
plough and cultivate a 1.0 ha area for each participant and would block
plant 0.5 ha of this with rubber. Farmers would be hired as labor by



ANNEX 5
Page 9
PNP X and still have enough time to undertake the development proposed
(Table 9). Initially the other half hectare would be cropped with rice
in the rainy season, followed by beans or groundnuts. In the first year,
farmers would establish a legume fodder/cover crop in the area then under
cassava. Participants would receive a cow or bull in the second year
(Annex 6) and the block planted rubber would be handed over to them at
the end of the sixth year.
33.       The farming pattern would stabilize on (a) a 0.5 ha rubber area
and (b) an area growing food crops (0.6 ha) with an area of 0.9 ha under
leguminous forage but otherwise out of cultivation (Table 8). The food
crop area would rotate around this latter area of 1.5 ha. Each year there
would be:
(a) an area of forage crop land (0.3 ha), cultivated in upland
rice in the rainy season, followed by beans or groundnuts
in the dry season;
(b) the previous year's 0.3 ha rice/bean land now planted
with cassava; and
(c) the previous year's cassava land re-established
in a leguminous forage crop, which would remain for
three years before the land is cultivated again.
Farm development would provide full employment for at least the family
head (Table 8, 9).
34.       With this cropping and using a moderate application of fertil-
izer (100 kgs urea: 50 kgs triple super phosphate/hectare), food crop
yields are expected to rise markedly and to be sustained. Yields are
assumed to rise to 2.0 tons/ha padi; 1.2 tons/ha beans and 15 tons/ha
cassava after three years with proper inputs and on a rotational cropping/
leguminous fallow system. These yields have been attained using inorganic
fertilizers alone in an area adjacent to Way Abung under similar soil
conditions, in the multiple cropping program, and by BIMAS farmers. Should
the trials on crop rotation systems to be carried out in the Way Abung area
(Annex 7) prove successful, the 1.5 ha might be used for more intensive
annual cropping by shortening the period that land is under leguminous
forage. Alternatively, the farmers may wish to establish more rubber,
provided their subsistence food needs can be assured.
35.       Although a need exists for more widespread support in the Way
Abung area, in the project period only about 5,000 of the settlers would
be reached under the agricultural rehabilitation project. Participants
would be located primarily in more recently settled areas, and in the
higher areas with more difficult soils in northern part of the project
area. Farmers willing to have their spare land cultivated and planted
in blocks would be accepted. All settlers in the Way Abung area would
benefit from road improvements and from health services to be provided



ANNEX 5
Page 10
under the project. Participants would enter the agricultural support
project at the rate of about 1,000 each year for five years.
Rubber Program
36.       PNP X would clear an area of about 1,000 ha annually using
tractors and equipment for ploughing and harrowing to control alang-
alang. As in the Baturaja area, 3 whorl polybag material would be
planted at a density of 550/ha. PNP X would establish polybag nurseries
in the area in early 1976 and they already hav2 sufftcient seedlings in
the ground on existing estates to serve the first year's planting. The
rubber will be established with a legume cover crop, which would be used
for the forage crop also in the arable crop rotation.
37.       Rubber yields are anticipated to be higher than in the Baturaja
area because soils are more favorable and because each farmer has only a
small area to upkeep. Tapping and upkeep standards should be positively
influenced by the proximity of high yielding rubber estates. A peak yield
of 1.2 tons/ha dry rubber has been assumed. There are many market outlets
adjacent to the settlement area for air dried sheet, including PNP X pro-
cessing facilities.
Organization of Input Supplies
38.       The BIMAS program already operates in the project area, but
results have been disappointing because of insufficient knowledge on
crop response and fertilizer needs under local conditions, and the use of
BIMAS credit to support subsistence food production with no cash generated
for repayment. The fertilizer and cropping systems trials to be carried out
under the project should provide a better basis for extending the BIMAS
program for food crops, and the introduction of rubber to supply a cash
income would resolve the problem of using BIMAS fertilizer for subsistence
food needs.
39.       A rudimentary extension service system operates in the area and
DGT staff also provide extension and marketing advice. Their efforts would
be strengthened under the project to an extent dependent on the results
of cropping systems trials as the needs arise. A flexible approach has
to be maintained until a more definite sustainable cropping system is
known.
40.       PNP X would provide input supplies for rubber and would also train
farmers in rubber planting maintenance and tapping. DGT would organize the
purchase and shipping of cattle and DGT village administration staff would
handle local distribution, the return heifer program, and the village bull
units (Annex 6).



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
A. Introduction
1.        Sustained production of food crops in the areas typified by
Baturaja and Way Abung will require the incorporation of organic manures,
crops residues, and fertilizers into soils of low natural fertility. In-
troduction of cattle into the two project areas is important for crop pro-
duction and would contribute to farm incomes, provide draft power, and
progressively increase nutritional standards of the transmigrants' diet.
2.        Under the project, cattle would be procured and distributed
to settlers in Way Abung and Baturaja. In the settlement areas, village
bull units would be established, as only heifers would be distributed to
settlers. Holding grounds would be established at Baturaja and Menggala
as the first stage of possible ranch development; for the present these
facilities would service the cattle distribution program.
B. Cattle Distribution Program
Numbers to be Supplied
3.        The project would supply to transmigrants a total of 9,500 head
of cattle over a five year period:
Way Abung       Baturaja       Total
1976                 1,000                          1,000
1977                 1,000               -          1,000
1978                 1,000              500         1,500
1979                 1,000            1,000         2,000
1980                 1,000            1,500         2,500
1981                   - _            1,500         1,500
5,000           4,500         9,500
Source of Cattle and Supply Details
4.        Heifers would be procured initially in the southern part of
Sumatera, Java, and later from Government owned ranches in Sumba and Sulawesi.
Holding grounds in Surabaya, Waingapu and Parepare would be upgraded under
the project to facilitate shipping the cattle. If a shortage of heifers is



ANNEX 6
Page 2
experienced, cattle could be procured from abroad, provided the source
is free of foot and mouth disease.
5.        Ongole cattle or cross bred Brahman x Ongole would be purchased.
There should be little difficulty in purchasing up to 2,500 head a year.
Balinese cattle are smaller and less suitable for draft purposes; they are
more delicate and are considered less suitable for transmigration in Sumatera.
6.        Cattle would be purchased on contract or through prequalified
buyers. and shipped to Panjang, the major port of Lampung adjacent to Tanjung
Karang, and capable of berthing ships of 25,000 tons. Cattle would be off
loaded into portable quayside pens and trucked to a holding/ quarantine area
near to Tanjung Karang. PNPX would make available for this purpose about 400
ha of land at the Rejosari estate; this area would be fenced and pasture
developed under the project.
7.        Following a two-week quarantine period, the cattle would be trucked
to small paddocks in the Way Abung area and distributed to farmers. In
the Baturaja area, cattle transported from Tanjung Karang would be received
on a 500 ha holding ground and distributed from there. Transmigrants would
establish at least a 0.3 ha area of leguminous forage prior to the introduc-
tion of the livestock to their farms. To assist DGT in introducing cattle
into a future scheme in Tulang Bawang, a holding ground will be established
at the river port of Menggala, adjacent to the new area.
C. Heifer Return Program and Village Bull Units
8.        DGT operates a heifer return program in lieu of a cash credit system
in areas where cattle have been distributed to settlers. DGT proposes to con-
tinue this system both in Way Abung (where it is ongoing) and in Baturaja.
This scheme requires that DGT distribute mainly heifers to settlers and the
project therefore would provide for the stocking of village bull units.
9.        Each unit is planned to service a village with about 500 heifers,
at about 3%, of 15-17 bulls. 10 ha of pasture would be established, together
with dips. Each unit would be supervised by a livestock extension officer,
initially appointed by DGT in conjunction with DGLS; this service would be
absorbed by DGLs when DGT withdraws from the area.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Distribution Program
Cost Summary
(constant 1976 Rp million)
1976                 1977                1978                1979                 1980              LTOTAL                           Foreign    Source
RX      Total       FX      Total       FX       Total       FX      Total       FX       Total         Local       FX      Total       Echne  (TabElIe #
A.  BATURAJA
Investments
Cattle Purchase                    -         -          -        -        19.32    38.63      38.62    77.25      57.95    115.90        115.89      115.89    231.78         50         6.3
Holding Ground Development         -         -        61.49    94.60       5.95      6.20       -         -          -        -           33.36       67.44    100.80         67         6.5
Bull Units                         -         -          -        -         4.55    10.58       4.55    10.58       4.55    10.58          18.09       13.65      31.74        43         6.10
Operating Costs
Holding Grounds                    -         -         3.67    10.20       7.63    17.20      10.92    20.60       11.26    21.10          35.62       33.30     69.10        48         6.5
Bull Units                         -         - e                 -         0.05     2.54       0.46      5.77       1.03    10.27         17.04         1. 54    18.58         8         6.10
Sub-Total                      _        _        65.16   104.80      37.50    75.15       54.55   114.20      74.79   157.85         220.00      231.82    451.B2         51
B.  WAY ABUNG
Investments
Cattle Purchase                  38.63    77.25      38.62    77.25       38.62    77.25      38.62    77.25       38.62    77.25        193.15      193.10    386.25         50         6 3
Bull Units                        4.55    10.58       4.55    10.58        4.55    10.58       4.55    10.58        4.55    10.58         30.15       22.75      52.90        43         6,10
Operating Costs
Bull Units                        0.05      2.55      0.49      5.78       0.91     9.02       1.33    12.24        1.76    15.47         40.50        4.55      45.05        10         6.10
Sub-Total                    43.23    90.38      43.66    93.61      44.08    96.85       44.50   100.07      44.93   103.30         263.80      220,40    484.20         46
C.  OVERHEAD
Investments
Procurement and Shipping          9.93    26.13       9.22    23.63       12.98    32.44      17.30    43.26       21.63    54.08         106.40      71.06    179.54         40         6.4
Tanjung Karang Office            16.17    59.88         -        -          -         -          -        -          -         -          43.71        16.17     59.88        27         6.12
Rejosari Holding Ground          23.06    42.70            -                          -         -         -          -        -            19.64      23.06      42.70        54         6.12
OPerating Costs                                                                            - 
Tanjung Karang Office             3.78    15.64        3.78    15.64       3.78    15.64       2.61    13.10        2.61    13.10          56.56       16.56      73.12        23        6.13
Rejosari Holding Ground           4.88    14.93       4.93    15.73        4.98    17.03       5.03    17.23        5.08    16.92         56.94        24.90     81.84        33         6.13
Sub-Total                   5?.82   159.28      17.93    55.00      21.74    65.11       24.94    73.59      29.32     84.10        285.33      151.75    437.08         35
TOTAL CATTLE PROGRAM COST       101.05   249.66    126.75   252.41    103.32   237.11    123.99   287.86    149.04    345.25             769.13      603.97   1,373.10         44
D. FUTERE PROGRAM
Menggala Holding Ground
Investment                       -         _         _         _          _         _       61.49    94.6         5.95     6.20         33.36        67.44    100.80        67         6.5
Operating Costs                  -         -         _         _          _                  3.67    10.2         7.63    17.20          16.10       11.30     27.40        41         6.5
Total                                                                                    65.16   104.8       13.58    23.40          49.46       78.74    128.20         61         6.5
- m
X x.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Rubber Development & PNP X
-              A.  Review of PNP X
1.        PNP X consists of a scattered group of 14 estates situated in the
Sumatera Selatan and Lampung Provinces. The estates grow primarily rubber
and oil palm, with smaller areas of cloves, coconuts and coffee. These
estates, totalling 36,000 ha, were taken over from their Dutch owners 18
years ago and handed over to PNP X, one of the Government-owned estate
enterprises in 1965. Up until 1972 the estates showed little progress due
to a lack of funds and expertise.
2.        In 1972, IDA financed the rehabilitation of the estates under the
Fourth Estates Project (Cr 319-IND). Excellent progress has been made and
development is now ahead of the planned schedule. The estates are well
managed by a first class general manager, ably assisted by two senior direc-
tors, three expatriate advisers and fourteen managers. The estate employs
160 trained support staff (accountants, administrators) and a 6,000 permanent
labor force supported by casual labor.
B. Project Rubber Development
3.        PNP X would be responsible for the clearing, the planting and three
year supervision of project rubber (Annex 5). The combined planting program
for the estates own development is estimated as follows:
Estate Planting   Proposed Transmigration   Total
(ha)                   (ha)
1973               1,500                                      1,500
1974               2,500                                      2,500
1975               3,000                     -                3,000
1976               2,500                     600              3,100
1977               2,700                   1,500              4,200
1978                 200                   1,500              1,700
1979                 200                   2,500              2,700
1980                 200                   2,500              2,700



ANNEX 7
Page 2
With the exception of 1977, the estate would not be called upon to handle
more clearing and planting than has already been completed in 1975, except
by 600 ha in 1977. No problems are anticipated with the ability of PNP X
to carry out the program, nor to expand this program if current proposals
to expand the Tebenan estate and to participate in adjacent smallholder
development near Palembang are implemented. These proposals are currently
being appraised by the Bank.
4.        PNP X would appoint a manager specifically for the transmigration
project, advised part-time by a PNP X expatriate adviser who would monitor
the quality of work being carried out. PNP X would provide the necessary
additional managerial staff required for developing the rubber up to the
end of year-6, and the labor required would be provided by project settlers
who would be paid usual estate wages.
5.        Funds for development would be provided by the Directorate General
of Transmigration, against annual budgets drawn up by and agreed with PNP X,
and approved by IBRD. These budgets would be drawn up six months in
advance of requirements, and payments would be made to PNP X quarterly in
advance. In the event of Government funds being delayed, PNP X would obtain
bridging finance from the local banks and would pass on to the Directorate
General of Transmigration any charges incurred therein. Separate accounts
would be kept for expenditures by PNP X for the transmigration project, and
adjustments would be made on the agreed differences in cost between the
budget and the annual expenditures. As PNP X's operations are fully
cost accounted under the same system used on other PNP's and are supervised
by Bank staff there would be little difficulty in assessing the reasonable-
ness of both the original budget and any amendments called for. The accounts
would also be subject to audit by independent auditors.
6.        PNP X would be paid on overhead fee (to be negotiated) to cover
additional administration incurred at PNP X headquarters, and this would be
paid as a fee on a per hectare developed basis.
7.        Quality control would be exercised on behalf of the project by in-
dependent consultants, such as those which presently carry out this function
for the Directorate General of Estates on PNP X. Terms of reference 1/ for
this work would be drawn up by the Directorate General of Transmigration and
the Directorate General of Estates, and would be subject to IBRD agreement.
8.        This is the first project of its kind in Indonesia, where a PNP is
carrying out development work for a transmigration project. It will be ne-
cessary to keep the above proposed procedures carefully under review. At the
end of the second year of the project the arrangements would be fully reviewed
by the Bank in conjunction with GOI and the management of PNP X.
1/   A draft of this TOR is shown in Attachment 1 to this Annex.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Development - Pro ect Cost Summary
(Constant 1976 Rp Million)
--------- 1976--%               1977------%      ------1978------      __-----1979 -------      ________1980 -------%    ------1976-1980--------------%        Source
Lbcal  Foreign   FX    Local Foreign   FX    Local  Foreign   FX    Local Foreign   FX    Local  Poreign   FX    Local Foreign  Total                    FX    (Table #)
A.  BATURAJA
INVESTMNT COSTS
Rubber Planting                      14.4    14.4      50      75.5    78.5    51    165.8   179.7    52    269.0   303.4    53    308.4    377.0   55    833.1   953.0  1,786.1               53     7.4
Equipment Purchases                  31.8    96.2      75      31.8    95.2      -     31.8    95.2    75        -       -        -       -        -       -     95.4   285.6    381.0         75     7.8
Vehicle Purchase                      1.6      4,8     75       1.8     5.3    75       0.2      0.5    75       0.2     0.7    75       2.7       8.1   75       6.5    19.4       25.9      75      7.8
Sub-Total                         47.8   114.4      71    109,1   179.0    60    197.8   275.4    58    269.2   304.1    53    311.1    385.1   55    935.0 1,258.0   2,193.0              57
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries                              3.5      2.2     39       7.5     3.7    33      10.9      5.2    32      16.1     5.7    26      20.5       7.6   27      58.5    24.4        82.9      29     7.10
Vehicles                              1.1      1.3     54       1.7     1.7    50        1.9     1.9    50       2.0      2,0    49       2.2       2.2   51      8.9      9.1       18.Q      51     7.6
Indirect Overhead and
Management Fees                      8.S      -         -     15.1      -       -     24.7      -        -     30.0      -       -      36.4       -      -    114.7     -        114.7       -     7.2
Sub-Total                         13.1      3.5     15     24.3      5.4    19      37.5      7.1    14     48.1      7.7    13      59,1       9.8   13    182.1    33.5       215.6      15
Total                           60.9   117.9      65    133.4   184.4    59    235.3   282.5    54    317.3   311.8    SO    370.2    194,9   56  1,117.1 1,291.5   2,408.6              54
B.  WAY ABUNrc
INVESTM(NT COSTS
Rubber Planting                      72.0    72.0      50      91.6   103.4    53      81.9    145.6   64       92.5   164.5    64    100.3    186.2   65    438.3    671.7   1,110.0    60           7.4
Equipment Purchases                  31.7    95.0      75       -       -        -      -        -        -      -        -       -      -         -       -      31.7     95.0      126.7    75      7.8
Vehicle Purchases                     2.5      7.6     75       0.05    0.15   75       0.05      0.15  75       _        -       -       2.4      7.2   75        5.0     15.1       20.1    75      7.8
Sub-Total                        106.2   174.6      62      91.7   103.5    53      81.9   145.8    64       22.6   164.5    64    102.7    193.4   64    475.0    781.8   1,256.8    62
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries                              7.3      8.7     54       7.7     6.5    46        8.4     5.4    39       9.1      4.3    32       9.4       2.2   19      41.9     27.1       69.0    39      7.10
Vehicles                              1.7      1.9     52       1.7     1.9    52       1.8      1.8    51       1.7      1.8    51       1.7       1.8   51       8.6      9.2       17.8    52      7.8
Indirect Overhead and
Manageasnt Pees                     15.0      -         -     10.6      -       -      12.3     -        -     13.7      -       -      15.6       _      -  "                       67.2      -      7.2
Sub-Total                         24.0    10.6      31      20.0     8.4    33      22.5      7.2    24      24,5   _6,.1    20       26.7      4.0   13    117.7        36.3     154.0    24
Total                           130.2   185.2      59    111.7   111.9    50    1!4.4   153.0    59    117.1   170.6    59    129.4    197.4   60    592 7    818.1   1.410.8    58



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Infrastructure
A. Baturaja Settlement Area-Village Modules
Introduction
1.        The infrastructure planning for the Baturaja settlement area would
ensure that the development of this area would fit in with the regional devel-
opment of the provinces, and that convenient all weather road access would be
available to the commercial and administrative centers of the region. The
settlement area is large enough to warrant the development in due course of
its own hierarchy of villages, and one of these would be provided with suffi-
cient infrastructure to become in due course the Kecamatan (subdistrict)
center for the settlement area.
2.        The Department of Transmigration, assisted by consultants provided
by FAO/UNDP, has developed a standardized settlement area module which would
be adjusted to the particular needs and topography of each settlement area.
The basic module is the village unit which would encompass a village and
surrounding farmlands to service 500 families with all the required infra-
structure.
The Village Plan
3.        The area of the standard village unit, containing 500 families, is
based on the allocation to each family of five hectares of land, of which
three are to be planted with rubber and two with food crops and fodder.
4.        The more important criteria which have influenced the proposed
village module are:
(a) the need for each settler to live close to his 5 ha holding
in order to guarantee the security of his crops and cattle,
and to avoid the waste of energy in walking from his home
to a distant separate holding. A distance of 1.5 kilometers
is considered to be the maximum acceptable distance between
the house and the rubber holding;
(b) the need for each family to have reasonable access to the
village center to ensure the full social and practical bene-
fits of using the facilities provided. If the center is too



ANNEX 8
Page  2
far from the dwelling, children will be less likely to
attend school, visits to the market will be less frequent
and strength of the village as social entity will be
diminished. A distance of 3 kilometers between house and
center could be regarded as a reasonable maximum;
(c) recognition of the importance of the dukuh (a unit of 20-50
families within the village) which not only provides for the
sharing of certain facilities but also allows for settlement,
in groups of transmigrants from similar areas of origin
(Figure 15675);
(d) the need to reduce expensive road investment to the minimum
level compatible with good access to all important facilities,
particularly markets; and
(e) the need to ensure that any future infrastructure networks
(such as electricity, water mains or bus routes) can be
provided without excessive costs.
5.        Three possible ways of laying out the village area of approximately
2,500 ha are illustrated in figure 9509 and have been compared in terms of the
criteria listed above. The more important observations are as follows:
(a) the dispersed plan allows each family to live on its 5 ha
holding, but over 30% of the families would be more than
3 kilometers from the village center. All roads would have
the same function and would therefore be built to the same
relatively high standard. Provision of future infrastructure
would be expensive;
(b) the nucleated plan has the social advantage of concentrating
all dwellings close to the center but over 50% of the families
would be more than 1.5 kilometers from their holding. The
farm roads need not be a uniform high standard, but additional
roads would be required in the residential areas to serve
the quarter hectare house plots. Provision of future infra-
structure would be relatively easy; and
(c) the linear plan would allow each family to live on its 2 ha
arable plot, thus guaranteeing the security of crops and
cattle. The 3 ha rubber plot would be located separately but
in no case more than 1.5 kilometers of the village center.
Roads could be differentiated according to function and future
infrastructure provision would be relatively easy since all
dwellings would be close to the main feeder road. The plan
would give distinct physical identity to a dukuh unit of 20-50
families on either side of the feeder road (Figure 15675).



ANNEX 8
Page 3
6.        The linear plan tends to combine the advantages of the dispersed
and nucleated alternatives whilst avoiding their excessive walking distance
to either farm plot or village center. This plan would be used on the
Baturaja settlement area, adapted where necessary to fit in with local
geographic features.
The Hierarchy of Settlements
7.        The hierarchy of centers within the transmigration area was
arrived at by the rational grouping of social, eceoemic and administrative
services, as tabulated in Table 8.3. A rational distribution of services
among villages implies that a settlement which receives a higher level
service, also receives lower level ones. Thus a settlement with Rank 1
services have all the services of Rank 2, 3 and 4, while one with Rank 2
services will receive those of Rank 3 and 4, and so on, as represented in
Figure 9510.
B. Way Abung Village Improvements
8.        Most of the villages in Way Abung are adequately served with
social services (except Health see Annex 9). Improvements are being
undertaken in the primary schooling facilities through the Impres Skolar
Desa program. Some secondary schools should be built by the Department
of Transmigration, and four schools of six classrooms each have been
included in this project (Table 8.9). Twenty two health posts and two
health centers are also included under this project (Annex 9).
C. Standby Water Supplies
9.        Although provision is made for the construction of wells (Annex 9)
alternate standby water supplies would be necessary in Baturaja for both
human consumption and livestock. The project field engineer would determine
on the spot where standby supplies might be needed and what the best solution
would be. The construction of small dams would be the most likely solution
but provision is also made for the boring of deep wells and piping from
streams (Table 8.10).
Implementation and Cost Estimates
10.       A Development plan for each village, together with detailed design
or prototype building types will be prepared by the PMU. Based on the level
of services to be provided, cost estimates for each village center are shown
in Tables 8.2-8.7. This project would settle 4,500 families 10 villages. The
cost of clearing the 1/4 ha houseplot, and constructing the transmigrants
houses (Figure 15676) are shown in Table 8.8. These costs are based on a



ANNEX 8
Page 4
detailed study of low cost housing alternatives for transmigration, and are
based on a traditional design, with provision for expansion on self-help
basis.
11.       All housing and village construction will be by contract, awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding. It is the Department of Transmigra-
tion's intention to have all the settlers' houses in a village completed
prior to the settlement of that village. The contractors would be required
to recruit labor for the construction of the first village center, thereafter
transmigrant labor would be available from adjoining villages.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transmigrant Low-Cost Housing
1.        The characteristics of the existing housing in this area, largely
built by self-migrants are a simple timber framed house with timber clad ex-
ternal walls, a double pitched roof covered with local clay tiles and a com-
pacted earth floor. In the house plan, a large covered verandah is an import-
ant element serving as the family gathering place and as a sheltered store
for firewood, farm produce and implements. Notable in the transmigration
areas is the self-help building potential demonstrated by migrants either as
an individual or on a communal, gotong-royong, basis.
2.        The housing proposed for the transmigration project has been designed
to capitalize both on the local building traditions and the evident self-help
capacity.
3.        A minimal 'core' house is proposed, - see Figure 15676.  The enclosed
area is 30.25 m2 considered adequate for a family of five. A roofed verandah
of 13.75 m2 is contiguous. No internal partitions will be provided by the
contractor, these will be left to the transmigrants in order that they can re-
flect their mode of living and family structure; they will probably be three-
quarter height to permit cross ventilation.
4.        The house has been designed to allow for linear expansion and it
is anticipated that the transmigrants will undertake this on a self-help
basis as their family needs change and their income increases.
5.        As far as possible the houses will be oriented with the short sides
East-West, in order to minimize solar heat build up.
6.         Shortage of water is a critical problem in the Baturaja area; on
this account gutters will be provided leading to a rain water collecting
drum. Additionally wells will be dug on a self-help basis.
7.         Sanitation will be accommodated by a simple pit latrine.  This will
be located on the side of the site opposite to that of the well. In order to
maintain public health standards the location and construction of both wells
and latrines will be strictly supervised.
8.        To minimize costs local building materials will be specified; the
migrants and local builders are accustomed to these materials. Dimensions



ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Page 2
of major timbers have been standardized. Doors and windows have been designed
with standard size frames making them interchangeable and easily reusable when
the house is enlarged and rearranged. To accelerate construction contractors
will be encouraged to prefabricate items such as roof trusses, wall units,
doors and window closures.
9.        The minimal investment required for this house will provide maximum
potential for replicability. It has been estimated that a construction team
of four men will require about 45 days to prepare a site and construct one
house. The cost has been estimated at $580 (Table 8.8); recent contracts in-
dicate that costs of $500/house may be achievable.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Infrastructure - Cost Summary
(Constant 1976 Rp ;1)
/0
Total Cost       Foreign    Source
1975     1976      1977     1978         1979       1980       Foreign       Total   Exchange   Table #
BATURAJA
- Village Centers          -         238.0     84.8      87.9        8'.9                  149.6        498.6      30         8.2
- Settler Housing          -         119.7    239.3    359.0       359.0                   323.1       1077.0      30         8.2
- Roads and Bridges       15.0       578.0    194.0    276.0       201.0       36.0        806.0       1300.0      62        10.1
- Standby Water Supply    -           64,1     64.1      96.1        96.1        -         211.5        320.4      66         8.10
Tatal             15.0       999.8    582.2    819.0        7hh.O      36.0       1490.2       3196.0
US$ Million                                                                         13.59        7.70
WAY ABUNG
- Village Improvements    -           -         4.8       4.8         4.8       4.8          5.8        19.2        30         8.9
- Roads and Bridges       13.0       522.0    416.0    252.0        252.0     225.0    1,o40.0       1,680.0        62        10.1
Total             13.o      522.0    420.8    256.8        256.8      229.8    1,o45.8      1,699.2        62
US$ Million                                                                              2.52        4.09
H >
00 



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health
A. Introduction
1.        The impact of health services and improvements in environmental
sanitation are impossible to measure accurately. However, it is apparent
that they are crucially important to the success of the proposed Trans-
migration Project. Malaria is endemic in the resettlement areas of Sumatra
and several other tropical diseases are highly prevalent. The new settlers
are malnourished and debilitated and have not acquired natural immunity to
many of the common diseases of the settlement area. Adequate health programs
are thus essential if the project is to avoid high mortality and costly
morbidity. In addition, improvements in health services are perceived by
the settlers as priority needs and thus afford opportunities to integrate
the community through participation in their development. This in turn is
likely to facilitate acceptance of the directly productive components of
the rural development package.
2.        It is essential that the health components of the Project be cost-
effective and replicable. This implies emphasis on low-cost, environmental
and preventive services with heavy reliance on personnel resident in the
community and wide, intensive coverage. Finally, in order to ensure effi-
cient, continuous operation of services, the health component must be care-
fully integrated into the regional and provincial health services and be
consistent with national health sector policies.
3.        The health component of the proposed Project (4 percent of total
Project cost) would consist of:
(i)  water supply and sewage disposal works as the major sub-
component (53 percent of the cost of the health component);
(ii)  basic health services (38 percent) with active community
involvement in decision-making, delivery of services and
financing health; and
(iii)  malaria control campaigns in existing and new settlement areas
(9 percent).



ANNEX 9
Page 2
B.  The Rural Health Sector
(I)       Issues and Objectives of Rural Health Policy
4.        According to the GOI/WHO Plan of Operation for Strengthening of
National Health Services under the Second Five-Year Development Plan (PELITA
II), rural health services under PELITA I suffered from:
(i) lack of community participation in service delivery,
resulting in vast under-utilization of services (and a
strong, parallel traditional sector);
(ii)  manpower constraints due to lack of training budget and
reluctancy of personnel to serve in rural areas;
(iii) low coverage due to health care facilities being too widely
spread and health teams neglecting outreach activities and
community work;
(iv)  managerial and organizational problems due to lack of clearly
defined roles and responsibilities of health center staff and
absence of clear lines of responsibility for overall health
center management at Department of Health and provincial
levels;
(v) poor logistics of drug supply due to lack of supplies,
slow distribution and inadequate standard drug supply guide;
and
(vi)  inadequate and un-coordinated financial management at all levels
resulting in lack (particularly at Kabupaten level) and unpre-
dictable availability of funds.
5.        The objectives of PELITA II (1974-79) are inter alia:
(i) increasing emphasis on community participation and outreach
preventive services;
(ii)  developing at least one community health center (Puskesmas)
in every District (Kecamatan), i.e. for about 30,000 people;
(iii)  transforming the existing 24 categories of nursing personnel
into the one category of Primary Care Nurse (PKK) and providing
a minimum staff of 6 auxiliaries in each health center; and
(iv)  improving management and coordination between different levels
and agencies.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(II)      Administration Organization and Financing of the Rural
Health Sector
6.        Over 80 percent of Indonesian health facilities are technically
operated under the direct control of the Department of Health (Departemen
Kesehatan).      Chart 15742   gives the organizational structure.  At the
provincial level, the Inspector of Health (I-ES) is administratively res-
ponsible to the Provincial Governor but professionally responsible to the
Central Department of Health. At the Regency (Kabupaten) level, there is a
regency health officer (Dokabu) who is responsible for the health facilities
in his administrative area. The selection of the Dokabu is the combined
responsibility of the Bupati, the IKES, the Office of the Governor and the
Central Department of Health.       Chart 15741   gives the GOI health sector
organization and the lateral linkages with the overall Indonesian admin-
istrative organization.
7.        In recent years the GOI has committed about 2.5-3.0 percent of its
Development Budget and about 1.2-1.6 percent of its Routine Budget to the
health and family planning sector. In FY 1973/74, the GOI per capita ex-
penditure on health was some $0.50 for the Java and Bali population and
$0.35-0.40 for the major outer islands. In Lampung, for example, 1973/74
per capita health expenditures amounted to $0.29 at the provincial level and
$0.11 at the Kabupaten level. Under PELITA II allocations to the Department
of Health are to be considerably increased. Furthermore, BAPPENAS is pro-
viding an additional amount nearly equal to the Department of Health's
Development Budget directly to the Kabupatens (INPRES Kesehatan Program)
mainly for rural water supply and development of additional Puskesmas. How-
ever, although channelling INPRES funds directly to Kabupatens was expected
to greatly enhance health program effectiveness, initial absorption rates
are very low and administrative procedures are still considered to be too
complex.
(III)     Health Status and Existing Health Services in Transmigration
Areas
(a)       Health Status and Disease Patterns
8.        Malaria is the major health problem in the transmigration areas
of Lampung and Sumatera Selatan Provinces. Malaria surveys indicate hyper-
endemicity levels with parasite rates up to 70 percent in some villages, and
Plasmodium falciparum, the most serious of human malarias, accounting for
up to 90 percent of infections. In 1974, a malaria epidemic occurred in
Lampung Province causing a reported number of 165 deaths, particularly among
transmigrants who were highly susceptible due to low or non-existent immunity.
According to a sample survey conducted in five transmigration villages of Way
Abung in 1972/73, malaria was the second most prevalent disease (after skin
diseases) with a rate of 16 per 1,000 population. According to records
of the Puskesmas and Sub-Puskesmas visited in Way Abung (Tatakarya, Daya
Murni and Pulung Kencana), malaria accounted for about 25 percent of cases
attended in recent months. Death rates among infants are high.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
9.        Skin diseases (20 per 1,000 according to the survey), tuberculosis
(11.8 per 1,000), respiratory infections (11.7 per 1,000), eye diseases
(7.5 per 1,000), filariasis and gastro-enteric diseases are the other most
prevalent health problems. Most of these communicable diseases are suscepti-
ble to simple, low-cost interventions in the fields of environmental sani-
tation and preventive medicine.
10.       According to the Way Abung survey's anthropometric data (arm
circumference), there was no severe malnutrition but 11.4 and 18.0 percent of
the under-fives suffered from moderate and mild protein-calorie malnutrition,
respectively. 1/
(b)       Existing Health Services
11.       At present, health services are provided only in the Way Abung
sub-area of the Project. However, availability, utilization and quality of
services are extremely poor. According to survey data, only some 20 percent
of the sick went to the clinic for treatment while 60 percent of the house-
holds knew about the existence of such facilities; about 14 percent claimed
to rely on self-treatment, 2 percent to depend on self-referral to the
physician or hospital and 64 percent to receive no treatment at all. No one
admitted to having gone to the local healer or midwife (dukun) although there
is a strong traditional sector. Almost all households used boiled water but
1/3 of the sample population found the quantity and physical quality of the
water inadequate. More than 90 percent of households had their private pit
latrine but some 2/3 followed bad food sanitation practices.
12.       In Way Abung and adjacent areas, there are three health centers
(Puskesmas) in Tatakarya, Daya Murni and Menggala. With the exception of
the new center in Menggala, however, these facilities resemble poorly opera-
ted village outposts rather than integral community health centers. The
buildings need to be up-graded or reconstructed, staff is not supported by
a physician and supplies (malaria drugs, vaccines) are lacking. Utilization
is only about 15 visits per center per day or 0.10 annual contacts per person
whereas required utilization rates in successful community health schemes
(on Java) proved to be 0.5-1.0 consultations per person per annum 2/ (depend-
ing on the intensity of outreach activities). Outreach services (home visits)
and back-up support to the few small village health clinics are neglected.
People depend on expensive self-referral to the Kabupaten hospital in Kotabumi
or the provincial hospital in Tanjungkarang.
1/   Severe, moderate and mild malnutrition being defined as below 70 percent,
70-80 percent, 80-85 of Indonesian standard, which in turn is 85 per
cent of Walamsky/Jeliffe international standard.
2/   This is much lower than standards for other countries, e.g. 2-1/2 annual
visits per person given by Maurice King for East Africa.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
13.       There are small village health clinics (MCH clinics, Polyclinics
and Sub-Puskesmas) in Bumi Restu, Panaragan Jaya, Pulung Kencana, Mulyoasri,
Panaragan and Karta. They are staffed by auxiliaries, who are poorly super-
vised. Coverage and utilization are low and there is no active community
involvement in health services. There seems to exist a strong traditional
sector, consisting primarily of local midwives (dukun).
C. The Project
14.       The Project's low-cost, community-based health system would consist
of the services modules (i) environmental sanitation, (ii) malaria control and
immunizations, (iii) primary medical care, (iv) community health education,
(v) nutrition, and (vi) family planning, as well as the support modules, (vii)
training, (viii) administration, and (ix) monitoring.
15.       The Project would rely wherever possible on ongoing programs (e.g.
INPRES Kesehatan) and would only supplement and extend these programs wher-
ever deemed necessary for effective basic health services delivery, i.e.
primarily at the grass-roots level. This approach ensures that Project-
supported activities would later (i.e., after the phasing-in period) be taken
over and adequately maintained by the regular, official health services sys-
tem. The health component would be carefully monitored and evaluated, in
order to develop and improve implementation criteria for rural health policy
at the village level.
(I)       Target Groups and Community Participation
16.       The system would have to cover about (i) 11,000 existing families
plus 1,500 families to be resettled in Way Abung, and (ii) 2,000 existing
families plus 4,500 families planned for Baturaja, i.e. some 17,500 families
or 87,500 people. Existing villages typically comprise 2,000-4,000 people;
the ten new villages in Baturaja are planned for 500 families each. The
smallest unit of village organization is the traditional dukuh, consisting
of about 20-50 families.
17.       Active community involvement in decision-making, delivery of
services and financing would be essential to ensure social acceptance, high
utilization rates, preventive care emphasis, cost-effectiveness and increased
self-sufficiency of the community health system. Experimental projects in
Java show that the closely knit Indonesian communities with their strong tra-
dition of mutual self-help (gotong royong) afford a promising basis for vil-
lagers' participation in health services delivery. In the Project's new
settlement areas, i.e. primarily Baturaja, community health promotion cannot
be based on well established village structure and leadership patterns. Com-
munities would have to be newly formed. However, given the transmigrants'
mainly Javanese origin (and therefore strong gotong royong tradition) and ini-
tially high dependence on community support, active involvement in health
services is expected to be introduced in the first years of the Project.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
18.       Villagers' participation would consist of:
(i)  election of village health committees 1/ to organize and
administer community cooperation in health (para. 30);
(ii) selection of community members to be trained as Village
Health Promoters (Promokesa) and to perform as part-time
volunteers (para 24);
(iii)  establishment of and contribution to Village Health Insurance
Schemes (Dana Kesehatan Desa) to finance grass-roots health
services through prepayment, i.e. small monthly premiums of
members, rather than fees-for-service (para. 37); and
(iv)  contribution of labor (and local materials) to construction
and maintenance of simple health posts, hand-dugwells and
pit latrines as well as health campaigns (e.g malaria control,
supplementary feeding, health education) (paras 20-23).
(II)      Health Facilities
19.       The Project would develop a two-tier health care system, i.e. small
village health posts and second-tier health centers (Puskesmas). Serious
cases would be referred to Kabupaten (Kotabumi, Baturaja) or provincial
hospitals (Tanjungkarang, Palembang).
20.       Village Health Posts.  Health posts would cover some 2,000-4,000
people each and be typically located in villages of 500 families. The Pro-
ject would thus support constructing, upgrading and equipping some:
(i) 22 health posts in Way Abung; and
(ii) 10 health posts in Baturaja.
The buildings would comprise 1-2 rooms, i.e. about 20-25 m2 and possibly be
attached to the community cent r or primary school.  Unit cost of construction
would be some US$2,400 ($100/m ); cost of equipment about US$500. Contribu-
tion of local labor and materials through community self-help (gotong royong)
would be required.
21.       Health Centers.  Coverage of a Puskesmas would be some 6,000 set-
tler families or 30,000 population. The Project would support and supplement
the INPRES Program construction and (UNICEF) equipping of:
(i) 2 Puskesmas in Way Abung, in the villages Daya Murni and
Panaragan Jaya; and
(ii) 1 Puskesmas in a centrally located Baturaja village.
1/   As a part of the community development committees that are set-up
in each village by DGT.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
The standard building comprises 80 m2, but in the Project areas 3-4 materniiy
bed (inpatient facilities) would be added so that size would be about 120 m.
The Project would also provide for the construction 2of 4 staff houses for
the physician (80 m ) and 3 paraprofessionals i60 m  each). 1/  Unit cost of
construction would be around US$47,500 ($125/m ) and cost of equipment about
US$5,000. Each center would be provided with two motorcycles ($850 each) and
a four-wheel drive vehicle ($8,000) for supervision and referral activities
as well as malaria control campaigns.
22.       Water Surpply.  The Project would provide an average for one hand-dug
well with hand pump per five families 2/. Given the extremely small scale of
INPRES program activities in rural water supply (and latrines) 3/, the Project
would not simply supplement (as in the case of Puskesmas) but substitute for
this program and considerably expand construction. In Baturaja, however,
given present lack of hydrological information, the provision of such wells
cannot be guaranteed to be successful. Alternative means of collecting water,
such as rain water collection from roofs in closed container, two boreholes
per dukuh (20-50 families) and small reservoirs for both irrigation and
drinking water, are therefore being explored. It is estimated that about:
(i) 2,000 wells would constructed or upgraded (adding concrete
covers and pumps) in Way Abung; and
(ii) 600 wells or corresponding facilities constructed in Baturaja.
Unit cost would be about $180 and community participation in construction
would be required.
23.       Latrines.  The Project would provide for one pit latrine per family
at a unit cost of about $36. Number of latrines to be constructed or up-
graded is estimated to be about:
(i) 5,000 in Way Abung; and
(ii) 4,500 in Baturaja.
The community would contribute to construction.
1/   Differing from the INPRES Program's 3 staff houses, the Project would
also provide a house for the sanitarian.
2/   If necessary, deepwells with handpumps would be provided to serve
10 families.
3/   In 1975/76, only 460 wells with hand pumps for all of Lampung Province
and 10 pumps for Way Abung.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
(III)     Health Manpower
24.       Village Health Promoters.  Since delivery of primary health care
at the small village (grass-roots) level constitutes an only recent addi-
tion to national health policies and is still considered to be in the ex-
perimental stage, the Project would allow for flexibility in staffing and
task assignment patterns at the village health post level (learning-by-
doing process). Health posts would be staffed by Village Promoters (Promo-
kesa) who would be selected by the community and Puskesmas staff to perform
on a part-time voluntary basis as community health workers. Allowing for
a 20 percent drop-out rate, some 71 promoters, i.e. two per post, would be
trained locally by the Puskesmas staff twice weekly for six months and
attend annual refresher courses at the Puskesmas. In later years, addi-
tional promoters would be trained to eventually achieve a ratio of 50 house-
holds per part time voluntary health worker or about 10 volunteers per health
post and village. 1/ Training cost is estimated to be about $325 per person.
They would be paid an annual honorarium of $145 during the initial 2 years by
DGT, until income levels of transmigrants have been increased and community
contribution to health care developed. Task assignments of health promoters
would emphasize preventive services, such as MCH and immunization, and out-
reach activities, such as home visits for health and nutrition education.
25.       Health Center Personnel.  In order to evaluate relative cost-
effectiveness of alternative staffing patterns, health center personnel would
comprise:
(i) in one of the Way Abung Puskesmas, probably Daya Murni, the
recommended staff of the INPRES Puskesmas Program, i.e.
physician, mantri, bidan, sanitarian, laboratory technician,
dental auxiliary, office clerk and 2-3 malaria spray men; in
addition a primary care nurse (PKK or Perawat Kesehatan
Keluarga; see para. 5) would be assigned to every fourth
village health post for supervision of health promoters; and
(ii) in the other Way Abung Puskesmas and in Baturaja, a physician,
sanitarian, laboratory technician, dental auxiliary, office
clerk, 2-3 spray men and 4 PKK; PKK would be assigned maternity
inpatient care, outpatient care and back-up support of health
posts.
26.       In order to provide continuous support and supervision to village
health promoters, at least one weekly visit to every health post would have
to be programmed. To avoid detrimental impact on community health activi-
ties, the physician should not supervise health posts and never be point of
first contact. Supervision should be performed by paraprofessionals (PKK,
sanitarian) only.
1/   Successful community health schemes in Solo/Java show a ratio of as
few as 10 households per voluntary health worker.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
27.       Allowing for a 20 percent drop-out rate, some 19 PKK would be
trained under the Project by sending existing, qualified assistant nurse-
midwives of Way Abung or selected from new transmigrants for a one year
upgrading course to the PKK school in Yogjakarta at a cost of $4,400 per
person. In later years, transmigrants with junior high school could re-
ceive a three years training at the PKK school in Lampung, which will be
established next year. The Project would also train 6 sanitarians in
Tanjungkarang at a cost of $2,650.
28.       Salaries and incentives of Puskesmas staff would be:
(i) $120 per month for the physician during his three years
of bonding; but since transmigrants will not have suffi-
cient income to support private practice, the salary
thereafter would probably have to be some $360 in order
to retain the physician in the rural area;
(ii) $60 per month for the PKK, mantri and bidan; and
(iii) $20-$40 per month for other Puskesmas personnel; spray
men are paid $0.18 per house, i.e. about $1.80 per day.
29.       Assurances would be sought from GOI that Puskesmas would be fully
staffed as well as adequately supervised and supported by Kabupaten (Dokabu)
and provincial (IKES) health administrations.
(IV)      Health Activities
30.       Task Assignments.  Regular activities of village health promoters
would include:
(i) promotion of community participation in organizing and
delivering services as well as financing of operating
cost through the Dana Kesehatan Desa prepayment scheme;
(ii) health education through regular home visits and courses
in elementary schools;
(iii) hygiene and sanitation by promoting community contribution
to construction and upgrading of wells and latrines and
advising on proper use and maintenance of facilities;
(iv) communicable disease control through immunizations and
epidemiological surveillance, particularly malaria
case detection and administration of chloroquine tablets;
(v) mother and child care, including nutrition and family
planning as well as supervision and guidance of traditional
midwives (dukuns); and



ANNEX 9
Page 10
(vi) primary medical care by providing simple curative services
and referring serious cases to the Puskesmas.
31.       Food Supplementation Program.  Given the malnourished and debili-
tated status of arriving settlers as well as initial food deficit and low
income levels, the Project would entail a food aid component which is des-
cribed elsewhere. Under the health component, however, a three-year food
supplementation program would be introduced for under-fives and lactating
women.l/ About 25 percent of under-fives and 50 percent of lactating women
are expected to be initially identified as being in need and would receive-
a daily food supplementation of two parts corn and one part soy bean;
children would receive 60g and mothers 120g for an average of 80 days. Cost
of the corn/soy bean mixture is estimated to be about $0.35 per kg. Distri-
bution of food supplements would be through the network of village health
posts. 2/
32.       Malaria Control.  In view of malaria endemicity and the suscepti-
bility of non-immune settlers, the Project would provide for malaria con-
trol campaigns, i.e. supplies of DDT and chloroquine, house-spraying before
arrival of settlers and malariometric surveys. Passive case detection and
suppressive treatment would be administered through village health posts
(para. 30). Preventive drug treatment (600 mg chloroquine every two weeks
or at least monthly) would be administered in transit centers before arrival
of settlers in the Project area. Annual cost of preventive and suppressive
drug treatment is estimated to be about $0.55 per family over two years.
Houses would be sprayed with DDT before settlers are moved to the area and
then be carried out twice a year over two years at a cost of about $1.90
per farmily per year, i.e. $1.50 for DDT and $0.40 for spraying. The exist-
ing Way Abung settlement would also be covered. The annual cost of pre-
ceding malariometric surveys is estimated to be $0.85 per family over two
years.
33.       Assurances would be sought during negotiations that:
(i) transmigration areas would receive first priority in DDT
spraying;
(ii)  logistics of DDT and chloroquine supplies would be improved
by national and provincial Communicable Disease Control
Units of the health administration;
1/   This program has been coordinated with and follows the approach of
the Nutrition Intervention Pilot Program (NIPP) of the Bank's forth-
coming nutrition project in Indonesia.
2/   This causes the unit cost of food supplementation to be lower than
estimates for the nutrition project.



ANNEX 9
Page 11
(iii)  sufficient number of spray teams, spraying equipment and
vehicles would be available for initial spraying; and
(iv)  coordination between Department of Transmigration and the
provincial health administration would be improved to ensure
drug administration to settlers before arrival in the Project
area.
(V)       Monitoring and Evaluation
34.       The Project's innovative community-based approach to delivery of
health services would require careful monitoring and evaluation (management
information system) of disease prevalence levels, social acceptance and
utilization rates, and cost-effectiveness of interventions. The Project
would finance a monitoring and evaluation program to be developed by the
Institute of Health Research and Development of the Ministry of Health.
The program would be integrated into overall Project monitoring and coor-
dinated with similar AID-funded activities of the Institute. Careful
evaluation could produce criteria for designing cost-effective health
components of future transmigration projects.
(VI)      Cost Estimates
35.       Table 9.1 summarizes investment, training and annual operating costs
of the Project's environmental sanitation and health services components.
Estimates represent total cost of the program and therefore include items
which would not have to be financed under the Project (para. 37), i.e. which
are provided through ongoing programs (mainly INPRES Kesehatan).
(VII)     Financing, Organization and Management
36.       Financing.  Table 9.2 gives the financing of investment training
and operating cost by different sources. The Project would provide for all
training cost and most of the construction and equipment cost. The INPRES
Kesehatan Program would finance about 55% of the cost of the three health
centers. In existing settlement areas (Way Abung), villagers would be re-
quired to provide labor for construction or upgrading of wells, latrines
and village health posts. They would be paid, however, through a Food
for Work Program or in cash.
37.       The Project would pay a small honorarium to village health pro-
moters during the first two years; they would then be supported by their
communities. The Project would also finance 80% of the incremental cost
of medicines and materials during three initial years, until Dana Kese-
hatan Desa (Village Health Insurance) schemes would have been established.
38.       Further, the Project would bear the full cost of the initial
malaria control and food supplementation programs and of vehicle main-
tenance. Finally, it would supplement salaries of Puskesmas staff over



ANNEX 9
Page 12
five years. Total Project cost would be $1.46 million of which about 70%
are construction and training costs, 24% operating costs and 6% cost of
monitoring and evaluation.
39.       Assurances would be sought from GOI that:
(a) INPRES funds for the three Puskesmas would be allocated;
(b) the full Puskesmas staff would be adequately paid; and
(c) sufficient supplies of medicines and materials would
be provided.
40.       Organization and Management.  The Directorate of Transmigration
as Project authority would coordinate, supervise and finance implementation
of the health services system. A Steering Committee on Development of
the Health Sector in the Transmigration Project would be formed in the
Department of Health in order to provide policy and technical guidance.
It would be chaired by a representative of the Department's Institute for
Health Research and Development and include members of the Directorates of
Community Health Services, Communicable Disease Control and Sanitation.
It would report directly to the Minister of Health and to the Transmigration
Council.
41.       The Department of Health, through its INPRES Kesehatan program,
the provincial health administration (IKES) and the Dokabu would be res-
ponsible for technical implementation and operation of the system. Physical
construction would be throujgh contractors. The Institute for Health
Research and Development would monitor and evaluate the cost-effectiveness
of the health care delivery system.



ANNEX 9
Table 9.1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Baturals and Way Abung Village Infrastructure - Health Services
Units        Unit      CtYear ------------- --                                                             Foreign
Unit.   Uitcosta            1        2        3       4        5j       Million        jJQQ           Exchange
A.  BATURAJA                                                                                -------- _----------8Rp million-----------------_
Investoent and Training Cost
Handpunp wells                                                          9by              75           7.5    15.0    22.5        22.5     -          67.5           162.6           50
Latrines                                                              4,500k/             15           7.5    15.0    22.5       22.5      -          67.5           162.6            5
Village health posts
Construction                                                           10           1,200            2.4     2.4      3.6       3.6      -          12.0            28.9           30
Equipment                                                              10             210            0.4     0.4      0.6       e.6      -           2.0            4.8           100
Healch center and staff hossing-/
Construction                                                           1          23,640          23.6       -        -        -        -          23.6           56.9            30
Equipment                                                              1           2,100            2.1      -        -        -        -           2.1             5.1          100
Vehicles
Motorcycles                                                         2             360           0.7       -        -        -        -           0.7            1.7            75
Four-wheel drive                                                    1           5,200           5.2       -        _        -        -           5.2           12.5            75
Village health promoter                                                  2-              135           0.7      0.7      0.9       0.9     -            3.2            7.7             -
Yrimary cara nurse (PIX)                                                 lo,         1,825f/          9.1       -      9.1       -        -          1892            43.9
Sa-itarian                                                                3           1,100            2.2     -_         1                             3.3            8.0
Sub-total                                                                                             61.4    33.5    60.3       59.1      -         205.3          494.7            30
Annual Operation Cast
Salaries and honorariucs
Village health promoter                                               20              60           0.3        0.6     0.6    0.8       0.4          2.8             6,7            -
Primary care nurse (PgK), mantri, bidan                                6             300             -       1.9      1.8    1.8       1.6          7.2            17.3
Sanitarian                                                             1             300    h/       -       0.3      0.3    0.3       0.3          1.2             2.9
Physician                                                              1           600-1,800         -       0.6      0.6    0.6       1.0          3.6             0.7
Other health center staff                                              9             1451'           -       0.9      0.9    1.3       1.3          4.4            10.6            -
Maintenance of vehicles                                                   1           1,660            1.7       1.7      1.7    1.7      1.7           6.5           20.5           30
Medicines and materials                                               6,000]/              1.0-k       1.0       1.5      2.5    6.0      6.0         17.0            41  0         100
Food supplenentation (under gives and last. nothers)                  2,1001/              1           024       0.6      1.1    2.5      2.5          7.1            17  1         100
Malaria control                                                             .
Malariaoetric surveys                                             6 0001               0.35         0.4       0.5     2.1    2.1       0.5          5.6            13.5            -
nOT spraying                                                      &oooi/               0.60        0.6       1.2      2.4    2.4       1.2          8.0           19.3           100
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                                 1.9       1.5      1.5    1.5       1.9          8.3           20.0             -
TOTAL - RATME-AJA                                                                                     67.9     44.7    75.8   71.1    19.4           279.0           672.3           34
0,  WAY ABENG
Investnene and Teaing Cost
Hlandpump wells                                                       2,000-/             75          15b0      37.5     37.5     37.5    22.5       150.0           361.5           50
Latrines                                                              5,000bL             15           7.5      19.5    19.5   19.5       9.0         75.0           180.7            5
V'illage health posts
Construction                                                          22           1,200            7.2      9.6       9.6     _        _          26.4           63.6            30
Equipment                                                             22             210            1.3       1.7     1.7      -        -           4.7            11.3          100
Health seater and staff housing-
Construction                                                           2          23,640          23.6      23.6       -       -        -          47.2          113.7            30
Equipment                                                              2           2,100            2.1       2.1      -       -        -           4.2            10.0          100
Vehicles
Hotorcycles                                                         4             360            1.4        -       -       -        -           1.4             3.5           75
Four-whesl drive                                                    2           5,200           5.2       5.2       -       -        -          10.4           25.0            75
Village  health prou-er                                                  54_/            135           2.0       2.7      2.6     -        -            7.3           17.6             -
Primary care nurse                                                       9g/           1,825          16.4        -        -       -        -          16.4           39.6
Sanitarian                                                                3            1,100           3.3        -       _        -       _            3.3            7.9             -
Sab-total                                                                                             85.0    101.9    70.9   57.0    31.5           346.3           834.5            35
Annual Operating Cost
Salaries and honerariuns
Village health promoter                                               44 460n"                      0.9       2.1     2.3    1.1        -           6.4            15.4
Prilary corn nurse (PEX), nantri, bidan                                9             300!/           -        2.7      2.7    2.7      2.7         10.8            26.0
Sanitation                                                             2             300    h                 0.3      0.6    0.6      0.6          2.1             5.1
Physician                                                              2           600~,60-1 h/      -        0.6      1.2    1.2      2.4          5.4            13.0
Other health center staff                                             12             1451'           -        0.9      1.8    1.8      1.8          6.3            15.2-
Maintenance of vehicles                                                   2.,         1,660            3.3       3.3      3.3    3.3      3.3          16.5           39.8            30
Medicines  and naterials                                             12,5001/              1.0        11.0      11.5    12.0   12.5    12.5            59.5          143.4           100
Food sWplenentation (under fives and lst. mothers)                   3,5001/              1.2_/       4.2       4.2      4.2      -        _          12.6           30.4          100
Malaria control
Malariometric surves                                              12,500-i/             0.35        3.9       4.0      0.2    0.2       -            8.3           20.0             -
SOT spraying                                                      12,500J/              0.80        8.0       9.2     0.4    0.4        -          18.8            45.3          100
Monitoring and Yvaluationn                                                                    -           8.2        4.2     4       2    4.2  8     2    29.0            70.0            -
TOTAL  -      WAY  ABUNG                                                                             125.3    143.0   103.8   85.0    63.0            520.1        1,253.3            41
a! Constant 1976 prices.
hi Construction or upgrading (concrete corer).
c/  Including  4 staff houses.
d/  Two sides par post and assuming  20% drop-oct rate.
e/ Asauming 202 drop-out rate.
T/ One year upgrading course for existing, qualified assistant nurse midwives at Rp 5,000 par person/day.
H! Monorarium of Rp 5,000 per -nth during initial 2 years.
h   Rp 50,000/month during three years bonding and Rp 150,000/mnth thereafter.
Average salary of Rp 12,000/month.
,I Family units.
4!  Total cost of Rp 500 per person/years; i.e. Rp 2,000 per family/year; but incremental cost under the project assumed to be 50%;
i.e, Rp 1,000 per family/year.
L/  Assuming 40 per 1,000 lactating mthers and 200 per 1,000 under-fiea of which 50   of mthers and 25% of under-fives would be
in need.
R Rp 15 per day far 80 days.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads and Transport
A. Existing Systems
1.        The main features of the transportation infrastructures in the
provinces of South Sumatra and Lampung are:
-    the ports of Palembang and of Panjang near Telekbetung/
Tanjungkarang;
-    airports of which Palembang and Telukbetung can received
medium size aircraft;
-    the railway lines connecting Palembang with Lubuklinggau
and Palembang with Tanjungkarang;
-    the national highways connecting the same cities in virtually
the same corridors;
-    the provincial roads connecting Kecamatan 1/ centers to the
main road system;
-    the feeder roads, often insufficient in number and quality; and
-    the rivers descending from the Bukit Barisan mountains and
which are navigable for small river craft, at least part of
the year.
2.        The port of Palembang is situated 86 km up the Musi River and
can accommodates 5,000 ton ships. Oil and fertilizers are the main goods
exported, but it is also the shipping point for rubber, coffee and forest
products. The port at Panjang is situated on the southern tip of Sumatera,
approximately 30 km from Telukbetung, and it is linked by ferry service,
soon to be improved, to Merak on West Java. A port Master Plan Study is
at present being carried out with ADB financing.
1/   sub districts.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
3.        The South Sumatera railway system connects the port of Palembang
with the hinterland centers of Prabumulih, Kotaraja, Kotabumi, and the
commercial center of Telukbetung/Tanjungkarang and its port, Panjang. From
Prabumulih there is also a connection through Muara Euim (Bukit Assam coal
mines) and Tebingtinggi to Lubuklinggau. The railway carries only modest
tonnages, and is in a reasonable operational condition. Improvements are
underway, supported by the Bank's First Railway Project.
4.        The Trans-Sumaetra road which connects Telukbetung/Tanjungkarang
with Lubuklinggau, Padang and Medan, is the main road in the area. It
passes by the railway and administrative centers of Kotabumi, Martapura,
Baturaja, Muara Enim and Tebingtinggi.
5.        There are only a limited number of provincial roads.  In the
province of Lampung the road Terbanggi Basar - Gunung Batin - Menggala
forms the eastern border of the Way Abung settlement area. In the province
of Sumatera, two provincial roads are important for the Baturaja Settlement
area: Kayu-Agung-Martapura (improved with Pertamina financing) and
Prabamulih-Baturaja.
6.        The feederroad system is not well developed, and is of poor
quality. Logging tracks are made where necessary and are not part of the
government road system.
7.        The basic infrastructure for the two provinces can be considered
to be sufficient, and provided that the current plans for rehabilitation
and betterment of the road, railway and port system are implemented would
form suitable basis for the increased level of utilization resulting from
the transmigration program.
B. Proposed Project Development
Objective
8.        The objective of the Project's road component is to establish a
low-cost feeder road system in the transmigration area to:
-    link the project areas by means of all-weather main access
roads to the national and provincial road network, to the
railways and the ports of Palembang and Panjang, and to the
Kabupaten capitals of Kotabumi, and Baturaja as well as the
regional centers of Menggala, and Martapura.
-    provide all-weather village roads between the village centers
in the settlement areas and the main access roads; and



ANNEX 10
Page 3
provide dry-weather dukuh tracks to facilitate access from
the village centers to the dukuhs; trails in the rubber area
would be constructed in the course of rubber development by
PNPX.
Baturaja Area
9.        The Baturaja settlement area receives its access from the national
road Baturaja-Martapura.  A 15 km long main access road with a light ashpal-
tic pavement would lead to the main village, and lower standard village roads
would connect the main access road to the different villages. Dukuh tracks
would connect the housing blocks with the village roads. Simple trails would
be made in the rubber areas by PNPX.
10.       Consultants assisted the Transmigration Department with the
preparation of the structural plan and preliminary proposals for the road
system of the settlement area. The road alignments have been designed,
wherever possible, to follow the crests of the ridges. The advantage of this
practice is that the ridge tops are well drained, and relatively level, thus
reducing earthworks and limiting the number of stream crossings to a minimum.
11.       The main access roads would have an embankment width of eight
meters, with three meters of penetration macadam asphaltic pavement and hard
shoulders of one meter on each side. The village road would have the same
embankment width with a pavement width of three meters with 15 cm (average)
crushed stone or gravel varying from 20 cm for most travelled portion, to 10
cm on roads serving only 1 village. The dukuh tracks would have a five meter
embankment with some provision for lateritic soil or crushed gravel on sections
where required. Bridges will be 3.5 m wide between the curbs and will be
constructed in wood except for a 15 m bridge over the Gilas river where
a permanent bridge will be constructed.
Way Abung Area
12.       The basic road formation has already been provided, but has no
pavement structure and insufficient drainage. The present roads are hardly
passible in the dry season and traffic comes to a halt in the rainy season.
13.       The project would provide for the completion of the main east-west
road Bandar Agung-Gunung Batin (30 km) and the main north-south road (20 km)
through the main village of the Way Abung II area. These two roads would be
completed to the standards of a main access road as described above with a
light asphaltic pavement.  A further 50 km would be completed to the stand-
ards of village roads.  In addition, the project would provide for light
betterment works (up to 50 km) on existing roads which are in an unsatis-
factory condition, such as Kotabumi-Bandar Agung and the east-west road on
the south side of the Tulang Bawang river leading to Menggala.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Cost Estimates
14.       Cost estimates were prepared by the consultants and amended by
the appraisal mission. Unit costs are estimated as follows:
Baturaja      Way Abung
----Rp Million/km------
Main access road             14              12
Village roads                 5               8
Dukuh track                   0.4             -
Road betterment              -                8
15.       The physical plan for Baturaja provides the length of the roads,
although during the implementation stage amendments will have to be made.
A special contingency of 15%, on village roads, dukuh roads and farm trails,
above the quantity contingency, has been provided in the event that the
topographical variation demands dukus spread further apart than the current
schematic plan has allowed. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about 65%. Engineering and supervision costs normally would amount to about
5% each of construction costs. Provision is made in the Technical Assistance
item financed under the project to provide expatriate experts if and when
required. Detailed cost estimates are shown in Table 10.1.
Planning and Execution of Highway Works
16.       The central Government through the Directorate General of Highways
(Bina Marga) is responsible for the national highways; Bina Marga is part
of the Department of Public Works and Power, which includes also the Direc-
torate General of Water Resources Development (water supply, irrigation, etc.)
and the Directorate General of Cipta Karga (urban and rural development,
buildings, etc.). The Provincial Administration, through the Bina Marga
section of the provincial Public Works Departments, are responsible for pro-
vincial roads, and district administration (Kabupatens) for district roads.
However, the center of responsibility changes with the sources of finance;
project with foreign finance assistance usually come under the Central
Government.
17.       At present 30 km of main access road and village roads in the
Baturaja area have been surveyed and designed, as well as the 30 km man
east-west access road in the Way Abungg area. Preparation of final design
and contract documents for all road works and bridges will be undertaken
by the PMU (or through Bina Marga). Contractors would be pre-qualified,
and selected through local competitive bidding. Construction scheduling,
site supervision and cost control would be the responsibility of the PMU
(or Bina Marga), utilizing the professional skills available through con-
sultants to the PMU, or Bina Marga.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Costs and Implementation Schedule
(Constant 1976 Rp Millions)
Unit Cost/km                                                                    Total  Cost      Foreign
(Rp Mil)       Total Km    1275    1976          1977     1978    1979    1980    Rp Mil.    $    Exchange
BATURAJA
Main Access Roads               14            15          -      210       -       -       -        -         210    0.51  )
Village Roads                     5          107          _      107      107     160      161      -         535    1.29  )   65
Farm Roads                      0.4          286                  23       23      34       34      -         114    0.27
Sub-Total - Roads                                      -      340      130     194      195     35         894    2.07  )
Bridges - Culverts and Fords                              -      215       57      72       -      -          344    0.83  3
Sub-Total                                              -      555      187     266      195     35        1238    2.98  )
Engineering and Supervision    5%              _     _            23        7      10        6      1       _62 __._1           -
Tot4l Baturaja                                         15     578      194     276      201     36        1300    3.13       62
WAY ABUNG
Main Access Roads               12            50          -      430      170      -        -       -         600    1.45  )
Village Roads                     8           50          -       -       100     100      100     100        400    0.96  )
Improvements to Existing                                                                                                    )
Roads                           8           50          -       -       100     100      100     100        400    0.96  )   65
Sub-Total - Roads                                     -      430     370      200     200      200     1,400    3.37  )
Bridges and Culverts                                      -       70       30      40       40      20        200    o.48  )
Sub-Total                                             -      500     400      240     240      220     1,600    3.85  )
Engineering and Supervision    5%                         13      22       16      12       12       5         80    0.19       -
Total Way Abung                                       13     522     416      252     252      225      1.680    4.04       62
0



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management
A. Legal Framework and National Coordination
1.        The transmigration program is governed by a series of laws,
decrees and regulations. The most pertinent of these currently is Statute
No. 3, 1972 concerning the Basic Stipulations for Transmigration. In
addition two Presidential Decrees prescribe the framework within which
the general transmigration program operates. These are: Presidential
Decree No. 29, 1974, which creates the three major transmigration policy
bodies and Presidential Decree No. 44, 1974, which specifies the organi-
zational structure of government departments, including the Directorate
General of Transmigration (DGT).
2.        Presidential Decree No. 29 created three coordination levels for
the transmigration program as follows:
National               Provincial                Disctrict
Expansion Body          Guidance Body       Implementation Body
Chairman:   Minister for Manpower,    Governor              District Chief 1/
Transmigration and
Cooperatives
Members:    Representing other Departments - See Chart 9346
Executive:  Director General            Provincial          District Represen-
for Transmigration         Director for         tative of Depart-
Transmigration      ment of Transmigra-
tion or alternative
Duties:     Coordinating, planning,   Formulation of        Coordination and
execution, control         provincial           administration of
and supervision of         policies and         local operations
development in trans-      priorities           and project
migration areas at                              implementation
both national and
regional levels
1/   Bupati.



ANNEX 11
Page  2
3.        It is evident that while responsibility for the execution of GOI's
transmigration program rests with the Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration
and Cooperatives and its Director General of Transmigration, the GOI relies
to a very large degree on the provincial and district governments for both
policy and implementation.
4.        The Director General for Transmigration, whose Head Office is in
Jakarta, is represented in each province by a Provincial Director for Trans-
migration responsible functionally to the Director GenTrl'b-but administra-
tively to the Governor, who is locally the senior representative of central
government, and hence, in this case, the Expansion Body.
5.        At the district level DGT is represented by a district represent-
ative, who is functionally responsible to DGT, but who is required to coor-
dinate all local transmigration activities with the district administration
through the local implementation body.
B. The Department of Transmigration
6.        The Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT) is in the Ministry
of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives; Presidential Decree 45 of 1974
created the administrative and secretariat functions of DGT and four opera-
tional directorates 1/ as follows (Chart 9423):
Directorate                            Duties
Planning and Programming:        Long-term planning, settlement area identifi-
cation acquisition, preliminary area design,
budgeting, liaison with other Ministries.
Project Preparation and          (a) Detailed preparation of projects, including
Implementation         :       agricultural development, physical planning,
road and building design, and (b) implementa-
tion of projects.
Settler Recruitment and          Recruitment of transmigrants and their movement
Placement              :       to, and placement in, the settlement areas.
Development and Guidance:        Development of leadership and community ser-
vices, village administration, continuing
services (e.g., agricultural extension, edu-
cation, health) of the settlements after
transmigrants and social infrastructure is in
place.
1/   In addition to these directorates there is a Training Research and Evalua-
tion Directorate which will be allocated to the office of the Minister
and will provide services to DGT.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
7.        These four directorates and the staff assigned to them have over-
all responsibility for planning and supervising all transmigration projects
in Indonesia, but the actual implementation has usually been carried out by
the local provincial and district staff, assisted where necessary by head-
quarters and specialist staff from other government departments. Each of
the provincial directorates duplicates the headquarters structure; those in
the outer islands with implementation responsibility have larger staffs
in planning, preparation and development directorates, while those in the
inner islands concentrate on recruitment and placement. The structure of the
district level offices reflects even further their task-orientation: typical
area of origin, and area of settlement district offices are shown in Charts
15546 and 15547.
8.        Past transmigration projects have generally been of a very simple
nature, due to minimum planning and limited funds. Follow-up development in
these areas has been poor and untimely due to poor coordination with other
GOI departments and local authorities. GOI is aware of these problems and
has increased DGT's budget and instituted the three-tiered coordinating or-
ganization (para 1-5). However, DGT faces both a recognized change in the
technical complexity of planning of new settlement areas and a lack of ade-
quately trained manpower to deal both with these complexities and the in-
creased volume of settlement required by the Pelita II targets.
9.        To strengthen DGT at the National headquarter's level, both admin-
istratively and technically, a UNDP Technical Assistance project has been
introduced, at the request of GOI, to improve the quality of general policy
development, as well as specific project design. Ten expatriate specialists
had been planned for, to work within the four operating directorates and
the secretariat, an additional 100 man months of unspecified assistance
and fellowships funds for overseas training of DGT staff had been allocated.
The recent reduction in UNDP funds has resulted in a cutback in this assist-
ance to seven specialists, and 50 man months of unspecified assistance. All
the fellowship funds have been cut. DGT is presently considering if it wishes
to refinance parts of this program with funds from this project.
Table:   UNDP Technical Assistance
man/months                                man/months
Project Manager               64         Topographer - Surveyor           36*
Agricultural Economist        48         Agronomist - Food Crops          24
Financial Planner             24         Agronomist - Tree Crops          24*
Land Use Planner              36         Extension/Training Officer    24
Farmn Production Economist   36*         Land Tenure Expert               18
Unspecified                    100*
* Not appointed prior to cut-back: could be refinanced in part under this
project.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
10.       UNDP intends to finance a feasibility study for a 100,000 ha
settlement and rehabilitation project in S.E. Sulawesi, with ADB as the exe-
cuting agency providing Technical Assistance. Further Technical Assistance
(144 man months) is being provided by USAID for a project in S. Sulawesi and
by the British Government (270 man months) for a 400,000 ha. land use/land
capability survey astride the Trans-Sumatera Highway. Dutch Technical Assist-
ance for the survey and planning of 200,000 ha in Southern Sumatera is also
under consideration.
C. The Project Management Units
11.       Because a number of multilateral and bilateral agencies are pre-
sently supporting various aspects of DGT's program, the Director General has
created a number of project management units (PMU). These units will have
the responsibility for coordinating the inputs and activities of DGT's opera-
tional directorates, at the national and provincial levels. However, at the
district level, the site manager for the project, who is ultimately respon-
sible for day-to-day implementation activities other than civil works, would
be responsible directly to the PMU, while DGT's district manager would act
as the local coordinator with the district administrator (through the
implementation (para 1-5), on behalf of the PMU (Chart 15548).
12.       The Bank has advised DGT that for large projects, and especially
those that constitute DGT's only activities in a province or district, this
structure might become unmanageable. However, as these PMIUs have just been
instituted, a period of trial has been recommended to enable a review to be
based on actual problems encountered. The Bank would review the functioning
of the PMU charged with implementation of its project during periodic super-
vision, and would conduct an extensive review with GOI at the end of the
second year of implementation. Assurances would be sought from GOI, that
this review would be acceptable, and that organizational changes, if neces-
sary, would be implemented on a timetable established during that review.
13.       The PMU for this project would be headed by a project director;
DGT had filled this position at the time of final appraisal. At headquarters,
the project director would be assisted by an agriculturalist, civil engineer,
land settlement specialist, a general administrator. A project accounting
team, would be assigned to the PMU.  Two site managers would be appointed for
Baturaja and Way Abung respectively. Each of these managers would have four
assistants, filling the corresponding tasks of the four assistants at head-
quarters and an accounting team directly responsible to the Head of the
Project Accounting Unit.
14.       The PMU would have responsibility for preparing the annual bud-
gets for the project, and for expenditures from those budgets. The primary
task of coordinating would be achieved through this control of budgetary
resources. The assistants would act as professional liaison/counterparts
to the various contractors to DGT (para 16), and would draw up the TOR's for



ANNEX 11
Page 5
consultants to be hired through this project. The project manager would be
responsible for coordination between the PMU and the operational directorates
of DGT; he, with the counterpart directors, would be responsible for coordi-
nation between DGT and other GOI ministries responsible for various aspects
of project planning and implementation.
D. Project Staff, Technical Assistance and Consultants
Staff
15.       DGT has a total staff of 3,400 of whom about 350 are professionally
trained and in senior positions, 1,600 middle level technicians and 1,500
low-level employees. It is proposed under the Pelita II program that this
staff level should be increased to over 8,000, and of these 2,000 would be
professionally trained and over 4,000 technically trained. In the Provinces
of Sumatera Salatan and Lampung DGT has 200 and 750 employees respectively,
but as the emphasis for transmigration will shift from Lampung to Sumatera
Salatan, the staff in the former is expected to increase to 250. As DGT
has administrative responsibility for transmigration areas for only the first
five years after settlement, DOT staff is continuously being released from
completed areas for reassignment to new areas.
16.       For this project, additional DGT staffing requirements would be
limited to those areas where the settlement process would not be different
from the past, e.g., Recruitment & Placement and Guidance and Development.
17.      DGT would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to retain a
qualified consulting firm to field and supervise a team of experts who would
assist the PMU in the detailed planning and implementation of the project.
This consultants' team would consist of:
(a) 1 Land Development Expert for up to three years, as Team Leader;
(b) 2 Land Development Experts for up to three years (including
at least one expert specialized in food crop development);
(c) 1 Civil Engineer for up to 18 months with experience in
rural works and quantity surveying;
(d) 1 Livestock Adviser for up to 2 years to assist in cattle
procurement and distribution;
(e) 1 Hydro-Geologist for a total of 12 man-months over
the course of two years to assist in planning and
implementation of the village water supply; and
(f) approximately 15 man-months of short term expert assist-
ance in fields to be identified in the course of project
implementation.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Prequalified consulting firms, acceptable to the Bank, have been invited
by DGT to submit staffing proposals and work programs in response to Terms
of Reference which were prepared in consultation with the Bank. Signing
of the contract between DGT and the selected consulting firm would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Technical Assistance and Consultants
18.       In addition the PMU would have funds available for 80 man/months
of unspecified consultancy time, for short-term assistance either in future
project area identification and planning, or in detailed area preparation.
19.       The Directorate of Planning would appoint an Agriculturalist
(24 m/m), an Agricultural Economist (24 m/m), and utilize an additional
75 man-months of unspecified technical assistance, for general project
preparation or to make up the shortfall in UNDP/FAO technical assistance.
20.       Technical assistance to other GOI agencies and implementation
contractors are described in the relevant annexes and are summarized
below:
Agency              Specialist              Duration
CRIA                   Annual Crops Specialist       36 man months
PNP X                  Rubber Advisor                5 years - part-time
(equivalent 30 man
months)
University of Bogor   Socio-economic Survey
Rural Sociology         Specialist
Department                                           70 man months
E. Village Management and Administration
21.       While project area development will continue under the supervision of
the PHIU for a number of years after the settlers arrive, the day-to-day adminis-
tration of the village and the concommitant community development would be the
responsibility of the Directorate of Development and Guidance, working through
the District Representative of DGT.
22.       Table 2 outlines the DGT staff that each village would require
to the handing over of the completed area to the Kabupaten administration.
Staff for health services, schools, agricultural extension, credit, etc.
would be supplied by relevant GOI agencies from village inception.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
F. Project Accounting Team
Present Situation
23.       Currently the Secretariat functions at the National, Province and
District levels each have finance and logistics (procurement) sections.
Annual budget preparation is the task of the Planning & Programming Direc-
torate at each of these levels. In an attempt to measure actual quarterly
performance against the approved budget, a consultants report, 1/ recently
submitted to the Director General of Transmigration, has recommended a
project-based accounting system with a standard expenditure coding system.
This system would be compatible with the present GOI DUP/DIP budgeting
system, but has the advantages of allowing for a physical quarterly measure-
ment of progress and actual expenditures against budget for discrete pro-
jects as well as by basic management units (e.g., districts and provinces,
or directorates and subdirectorates), and developing standard costs for
the various regions of Indonesia. To assist in the implementation of this
report a Financial Planner has been appointed under the FAO/UNDP Technical
Assistance Program.
Bank Project Requirements
24.       As separate accounting is required for the Bank financed portions
of this project, and the project will be operated under the Bank's Procure-
ment Guidelines as well as GOI procurement requirements, a Accounting
Advisor would be financed under this loan. The PMU would appoint the Head
of the Project Accounting Unit, who would operate from Jakarta. An ac-
countant of relative seniority and experience would be appointed to manage
the accounting requirements at site level. Over the duration of the project,
a maximum of about twenty junior accountant/bookkeepers will also be appointed.
The accounting system will be designed by the Financial Assistant in co-opera-
tion with the Head of the Finance Section in the Secretariate to be compatible
with GOI accounting requiremens as well as revised system being implemented by
the FAO/UNDP Financial Planner. Further, the accounting system will allow
supervision missions to establish standard cost accounting data, and trace the
source and application of Bank funds.
25.       To enable the Department to operate within the Bank's procurement
Guidelines, and to activate loan disbursement with a minimum delay, the
Public Works Department (Bina UIarga) has seconded a member of their staff,
well acquainted with the Bank's requirements, for a period of between 6 and
18 months, to train members of DGT staff and establish the necessary internal
procedures.
1/   Project Budgeting (FAO/UNDP INS/72/005), July 1975, prepared by P.T.
Djasidas Management Consultancy Services.



ANNEX 11
Attachment 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Request for Proposal for Consulting Services
It is assumed that the RFP will be addressed to a limited number
of firms known to GOI and the Bank and already prequalified by the former.
A notice of invitation along the following lines is suggested:-
Transmigration & Rural Development Project, Southern Sumatera
The GOI is inviting proposals from suitably qualified firms to
provide a multi-disciplinary professional team to develop this project.
Interested firms are required to submit a detailed proposal indicating their
analysis of the tasks disciplines and time requirements. A brief curriculum
vitae describing the experience of teach team member should be enclosed. In
a separate envelope should be placed a quotation of the professional fee re-
quired and secondary costs such as travel, subsistence, printing and local
costs.
The Baturaja project extends over an area of about 30,000 ha in
South Sumatera. Ten villages are proposed each of 500 houses together with
infrastructures such as schools, health clinics, market buildings, etc. Roads
of varying standard, bridges and culverts will be required. It is anticipated
that design and construction will last about three years. A preliminary dev-
evelopment plan has been made by Huszar Brammah and Associates. This includes
a tentative road system, a prototypical village plan and house design.
At Way Abung, nearby, the work includes planning of roads, four
schools, twenty-two health clinics and staff housing.
The initial task of the Consulting Team will be to refine Huszar
Brammah's proposals and prepare a Development Plan; after approval of this by
GOI and IBRD, contract documents will be prepared for the construction work.
The Team will be required to the bidding procedures and adjudication and site
supervision during the construction period.
A copy of Huszar Brammah's Report together with a preliminary
analysis of the tasks and disciplines required for the Planning Team is
available at the offices both of the Department of Transmigration and of
the World Bank in Jakarta. It must be stressed that this analysis is
tentative only and in no way binding upon respondents.
(Final clause stating time allowed for submissions and to whom they must
be addressed together with statement regarding GOI and IBRD regulations).



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Management - Cost Summary
(Constant 1976 Rp Million)
TOTAL COST              Source
1975       1976        1977        1978        1979       1980        1981        1982       1983        1984        1985         1975-1980   1975-1985         Table #
A: PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Technical Assistance          -        95.45      182.60      136.95      62.25        8.30         -           -           -          -           -           485.55       485.55           11.2
Counterpart Staff             -        14.94       29.88       24.90        -           -           -           -          -           -           -            69.72        69.72           11.2
Local Staff - HQ            4.20       14.30       15.80       15.80      15.80       12.80       11.30       10.80      10.30       10.30         -            78.70       121.40           11.3
Sub-total              4.20      124.69     228.28      177.65       78.05       21.10      11.30       10.80       10.30       10.30         -           633.97       676.67
Local Staff-Baturaja         3.05      12.70       14.50       14.50       14.50      12.70       10.90       10.30       9.70        9.70         _            71.95       112.55           11.3
Local Staff-Way Abung        1.95       6.10        6.10        6.10       4.90        4.90        4.90        4.90       4.90        4.90         -            30.05        49.65           11.3
Village Management -
Baturaja                    -         3.64        7.28       18.2        18.2       18.2        16.16       14.12        9 46       4.80       2.40          65.52       112.46
Sub-total - Staff      9.20      147.13     256.16      216.45      115,65       56.90       43.26      40.12       34.36       29.70       2.40         801.49       951.33
B: VEHICLE - PURCHASES
PMU - HQ                      -        16.60         -           -                                                          -           -                       16.60        16.60
Baturaja                      -         4.98       10.38        5.40         _          _           _                                                           20.76        20.76
Way Abung                     -        10.38       10.38         -                            -           -           -                            -            20.76        20.76
Sub-total               -         31.96       20.76       5.40         _           _           _                                                           58.12        58.12
TOTAL                   9.20      179.09      276.92      221.85     115.65       56.90       43.26       40.12      34.36       29.70       2.40          859.61      1009.45



ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Monitoring and Evaluation Studies are required during the implement-
ation of this project to measure the effectiveness of the project design and
management. Two major information needs must be fulfilled by these studies:
(a) long-term socio-economic data to measure the development
of the settlement areas into a commmunity, and indicate
broad areas of project design requiring modification; and
(b) short-term information on project problems requiring
immediate project design modifications.
2.        The first requirement would be met by two long term socio-economic
studies on settlement and the associated health delivery system to be conduc-
ted by GOI research institutions, but independent of DGT, as outline in
Attachment 1 and 2 to this annex.
3.        The short-term information needs would be met through the intro-
duction of a low cost data collection system operated and interpreted by
project management personnel. This monitoring system, an essential part
of the operation of the PMU, is outlined in Attachment 3 to this annex,
and would be designed through technical assistance to the PMU under the
project. It would focus on the settlement's short-term agricultural and
community development: development of physical infrastructure would be
monitored through the functions of the Consulting team (Annex 11).



ANNEX 12
Attachment 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Draft Terms of Reference: Settlement Monitoring and Evaluation Studies
Objective
1.        The monitoring and evaluation studies of the Baturaja and Uay Abung
Settlement areas would be directed at providing GOI with regular information
on the socio-economic aspects of development and progress of the settlers and
the settlement area. The studies would enable DGI to identify problem areas
early on and take remedial action. Further, data from this study would be
used to adjust the design of future settlement areas.
Scope
2.        The study would cover four major topics,
(a) a base line survey (conducted in the area
of settlement);
(b) an agricultural adaptation survey;
(c) a market place survey; and
(c) a social adaptation and leadership development survey.
The topics are grouped in this way to focus the surveys on areas of
information that are of urgent importance for the testing and adjustment of
the settlement pattern presently in use.
Staffing
3.        It is expected that these studies would be contracted by the Min-
istry of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives, through the Directorate
of Research, Training and Evaluation, to the Center for Rural Sociological
Research at Bogor Agricultural University (CRSR).
Research Advisory Board
4.        As the detailed design of each of these studies remains to be
developed by CRSR, a Research Advisory Board is recommended to assist DGT
in its task of directing this study toward project specific problem
4dentification, as well as the development of general planning parameters
for future projects. This Board would consist of:



ANNEX 12
Attachment 1
Page 2
Member                       Alternate
(a) Representatives of GOI:
- Minister of Manpower,          Director for Research, Training
Transmigration and              and Evaluation
Cooperatives
- Director General of            Director for Planning and
Transmigration                  Programm ing
- Director General for           (as designated)
Regional Planning
- Minister of Finance            BAPPEDAS
- Governor of Sumatera           BAPPEDAS
Selatan Province
- Governor of Lampung            BAPPEDAS
Province
(b) Representatives of the Profession:
- Agro Economic Survey of Indonesia
- Political and Social Science Faculty - University of Gajahmada
(Jogjakarta)
- Institute of Social Science Research - Satya Wacana University
(Central Java)
- University of Sriwijaya (Palambang, Sumatera Salatan)
- University of Lampung
- Center for Rural Sociological Research - Bogor Agricultural
University
- Institute of Health Research & Development of the Ministry
of Health
- World Bank
(c) Ex-officio:
- The Study Director as Secretary of the Board
- The Project Director, Project Management Unit - DGT



ANNEX 12
Attachment 1
Page 3
5.        The powers and constitution of the Board are still to be finalized
by GOI.
Cost
6.        Table 12.1 shows the cost estimate for this survey for the period
of this loan, which totals $1.5 million, of which $350,000 would be for tech-
nical assistance. The loan would finance 50% of the annual budget. The
remainder would be financed by GOI.
Detailed Components of the Studies
7.        The four major studies would be compiled from data covering the
following principal topics:
Demographic.
Community institutions and gotong-royong projects.
Mutual assistance, including gifts, communal labor and loans.
Marriages, divorces.
Family contacts and visits.
Housing.
Settlers aspirations and frustrations.
Recreation.
Incomes.
Consumption.
Savings.
Investments.
Land allocation and certification.
The farm, area cleared, crops cultivated, etc.
Food aid and assistance.
Processing, marketing, and markets.
Credit facilities.
Leadership and administration.
Social services and infrastructure.
Kecamatan ' and Kabupaten Services.
These are the broad topics which would later be refined as a result of Pilot
Studies.
8.        The Base Line Study would indicate the economic status of the
settlers prior to transmigration. Sociological parameters such as kinship
association, status in village of origin would also be included, together
with measures of expectation levels. The study should indicate possible
barriers to transmigration, weaknesses in the recruitment and selection
process, and the effectiveness of the information program being conducted
by DGT in Java.



ANNEX 12
Attachment 1
Page 4
9.        The Agricultural Adaptation Study would include most of the com-
ponents of a farm management and income survey, and would be designed to
identify barriers to the adaptations the farmers must make from their wet
land farming experience to a dry land farming system. It would measure on-
farm investment (capital and labor) and mutual assistance patterns, and
include the use of institutional and non-instituional credit.
10.       The Marketing Survey would include the monitoring of development
of local markets, a classification of major participants (local traders,
local farmers, etc.), the range of goods bought and sold. It would extend
beyond the project area by identifying market participants who are not
resident in the area, and the level of purchases by area residents from
neighbouring markets and from the markets and shops in nearby micro-urban
areas. The development of cooperatives as processing and marketing agents
for outputs and purchasers of inputs would also be measured. The market
survey would also serve to back up the agriculture adaptation survey in
determining food and non-food purchasing patterns. The impact of grant aid
fertilizers and food as inhabitors (or promoters) of local markets should
also be included. For DGT the market study would serve to indicate the
level of sustained growth achieved in the area, and what DGT management
intervention in the marketing and supply channel had done to inhibit or
promote the economic exchange function within the area, and between the
area and neighboring communities.
11.       The Leadership Study would include a study of existing local insti-
tutions, the development of new institutions unique to a settlement environ-
ment, and the tranfer of institutions and hierarchys from the areas of
origin. All these institutions would be examined for their potential to
encourage or discourage adaptation and growth in a new environment. For
DGT, the study should indicate what management functions and services had
promoted or inhibited the development of local leadership and institutions.
This study is of particular importance, as maximum leadership development
should be encouraged in the settlement areas prior to the are being trans-
ferred to local administration.
12.       Feedback into Project Design.  It is expected that each study
would identify strengths and weaknesses in the present design and implement-
ation of the settlements at Baturaja and Way Abung. Through the periodic
reports expected from the study team to both the Research Advisory Board,
and the National Expansion Body for Transmigration, the changes in project
design can be agreed upon and incorporated into future project design.



ANNEX 12
Attachment 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Health Monitoring and Evaluation
Objective and Scope
1.        The Project's innovative community-based approach to delivery of
health services would require careful monitoring and evaluation of disease
prevalence levels, social acceptance and utilization rates, and cost-effec-
tiveness of alternative interventions. Short-term information needs for
immediate corrective action would be met through regular recording and re-
porting of routine health service statistics. Long-term information for
assessing Project performance and outcome and for developing criteria of
social acceptance and cost-effectiveness of rural health interventions
would be provided by special studies.
Methodology
2.        Management Information System.  Recording and reporting of rou-
tine health service statistics would be part of the tasks assigned to
health staff. Recording systems have been developed based on (i) cards
to be kept by patients (e.g., under-fives cards, maternity cards), (ii)
cards to be kept in health facilities (e.g., treatment cards for in-
patient and outpatient departments, school children cards), (iii) regis-
ters for recording of activities (e.g., maternity care, outreach activi-
ties, laboratory), and (iv) registers for recording of resources (e.g.,
supplies, finance). Data would be consolidated by Puskesmas staff and
every three months be sent to the Institute of Health Research and Devel-
opment of the Ministry of Health for evaluation of effects and efficiency.
On a monthly basis, a performance report on a limited number of key indi-
cators would be sent to the Dokabu and Project management.
3.        Regular reporting and continuous monitoring of program effects
would cover indicators on changes in (i) mortality by age and by cause,
(ii) morbidity, including malnutrition, (iii) fertility by age and parity
and by intervals between pregnancies, as well as (iv) attitude and behav-
ior of the community and degree of satisfaction with the services (e.g.,
measured through rates of enrollment in village prepayment schemes and
utilization of services).
4.        Monitoring of program efficiency would cover indicators of utili-
zation (e.g., number of contacts, acceptors, steady users and home visits
per sub-program), cost of services and staff performance.



ANNEX 12
Attachment 2
Page 2
5.        Special Studies.  A number of special studies would complement con-
tinuous monitoring of interventions in providing data for long-term evalua-
tion of the health component. Studies on the following broad topics have
been tentatively identified but would be refined and elaborated on during
the course of Project implementation:
(a) Longitudinal study on disease prevalence and incidence,
with particular emphasis on malaria;
(b) Study on community attitudes and behavior towards dif-
ferent and alternative health services, with emphasis
on degree of satisfaction with the new concept of the
village health promoter and acceptance of village health
insurance schemes;
(c) Study on manpower activities and staff performance, with
emphasis on efficiency and effectiveness of tasks per-
formed by the village health promoter and of alternative
supervision schemes;
(d) Study on health impact of the low-cost rural water supply
schemes and pit latrines;
(e) Study on the impact of the nutrition interventions on
health and nutrition status; and
(f) Study on feasibility of a "clearing house" for new
settlers; i.e., a transit center providing -- in addi-
tion to the Project's preventive drug treatment against
malaria -- immunizations, necessary treatment, and in-
formation/education on nutrition in the new environ-
ment, personal hygiene, family planning and availa-
bility of health services.
Staffing and Organization
6.        Village health promoters and health center personnel (PKK) would
be trained in the administration of the recording and reporting system as
part of their training under the Project. Higher level health managers
(Puskesmas physician, Kabupaten administrators) would receive training in
monitoring health services through the Project's overall monitoring and
evaluation system.
7.        The Institute of Health Research and Development in the Ministry
of Health, in coordination with DGT, AES and CRSR, would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluation of health services. The Institute would carry out
the special studies and would evaluate Project performance and outcome with
a view to developing criteria for the design of health components of future
transmigration projects.



ANNEX 12
Attachment 2
Page 3
Cost
8.        The Project provides for US$90,000, which is the estimated cost
of monitoring and evaluation of health services for the period of this loan
and excludes cost of recording and reporting as a part of regular health ser-
vice activities.



ANNEX 12
Attachment 3
Page   1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Term of Reference: Short-term Monitoring and Evaluation System
Objective
1.        The monthly development of the settlement and the problems the
settlers encounter, may require design modification in that village, and
in those villages still in planning. As short lead times are essential
in identifying and analyzing problems instituting the corrective action,
a low-cost simple monitoring system operated by the site management per-
sonnel is required.
Methodology
2.        The staff, at site and village level, would continuously monitor
the on-farm development, community/social development, supplies of inputs,
the marketing system through measurement of a selected number of key in-
dicators, and regular meetings with farmers at the dukuh level.
3.        Where key indicators show potential problems, spot surveys would
be conducted by the project staff on a sample of settlers using specific-
ally designed diagnostic questionnaires.
4.        To determine the key indicators, broad data collection would be
undertaken initially on the first two villages to be settled. This would
have the additional advantage as a training exercise for project management
personnel (including teachers, health workers and extension agents) who
would later move to newly established villages. The first two villages
would therefore act as the pilot scheme for testing the data collection
system, and determining the minimum amount of data pertinent to the moni-
toring of project. The pilot scheme approach for the first two villages
would also serve to identify the non-quantifiable indicators that should be
included.
5.        The development and refinement of the data collection instrument,
the training of project staff as data collectors and data interpreters
would be the function of technical assistance to be provided under the
project.
6.        After the initial survey design has been developed for broad
based application in the project area, the management of the survey would
become the responsibility of the PMU. The technical assistance group would
then be required to conduct a quarterly supervision of the monitoring system



ANNEX 12
Attachment 3
Page   2
in the first year of PMU management, and thereafter at regular intervals of
not more than four months apart for the following two years, and not more
than six months apart for the next two years.
7.        The technical assistance team would be required to coordinate with
the Monitoring and Evaluation team conducting the long-term survey to avoid
duplicate data collection. The PMU in turn would be required to report
regularly to the Study Board (Attachment 1) on changes in project design
resulting from the short-term monitoring effort.
Staffing
8.        All the agriculturalists and social service management personnel
for the project would initially be trained in the first two villages in
the administration of the monitoring system and the interpretation of eval-
uation data. The headquarters staff of the PMU, and the site staff would
also receive this training.
9.        The technical assistance personnel are estimated to be required
for the following time:
Year                 Task                     Man Months
1:       questionnaire design and
testing                               8
staff training                         12
2:       supervision                              5
training                                5
3:       supervision                              5
training                                5
4:       training                                 4
5:       training                                 4
50



ANNEX 12
Table 12.1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Study Costs
(Cost in 1976 US$ Million)
A:  Socio Economic Monitoring                   Local      Foreign      Total      % FX
Staff - Local                               0.50        -           0.50        -
- Technical Assist/                  0.10        0.25        0.35        70
Field Surveys                               0.20        -           0.20        -
Transport - Purchase-'                      0.01        0.04        0.05        75
- Local Operations               0.02        -           0.02        -
Computing Costs                             0.15        -           0.15
University Overhead                         0.13        -           0.13        -
Sub-Total                              1.11        0.29       1.40         21
Study Board                                 0.10        -           0.10        -
Total A:                               1.21        0.29        1.50        19
B:  Health Monitoring3                           0.10        -           0.10
C:  Low-Cost Monitoring (Technical Assist.)-/0.07           0.18        0.25        70
TOTAL                                  1.38        0.47        1.85        25
70 mm
-   7x4 wheel drive
-   See Table 9.1
4/
- 50 m



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DFVELOPE2T PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(Current $ Million)
--Project Cost/------____________________________Disbursement-----------------------------
% Foreign
Foreign  Total  Exchange  Amount   %                    Conditions
I.  Civil Works                  7.43   14.97    49        7.50   50    - 50% of total expenditures
II. Vehicles &  Equipment        2.78    3.67    76        2.80   75    -100% of foreign expenditures of directly import
goods.
- 95% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for
contracts awarded after ICB.
- 40% of local expenditures on vehicles if procured
through prudent shopping.
- 65% of local expenditures on farm  equipment.
III. Agrochemicals                 .99    1.17    93        1.20  100    -100% of delivered cost.
IV. Rubber Development           3.94    8.89    44        2.70   30    - 30% of local expenditures.
V. Cattle                       0.94    1.87    50        1.40   75    -100% of foreign expenditures.
VI. Consultants &
Technical Services        3.95    6.39    60         6.40  100    -100% of local and foreign expenditures.
VII. All Other &/                 5.00   13.63    37         4.50   -      - $1000 1 per family in Baturaja upon village
completion.
VIII. Unallocated                  4.97    6.23    80         3.50   -      _
Total                30.00   56.82    53        30.00
1/  See Table 15.3.
2   Schools, health and water for Baturaja excluded from civil works.                                                         H s
3/  Equivalent to 100% of specified project items - see Table 14.3.



Talle  h. 2
INJ)OI TSIA
TRA,ISiT3Rf,T.0A AND RIJRICL DEVELOWWT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Quarter                      Quarterly         Cumulative       % of Total
Year       Enclind                      Dijsbursement     Disb'ursement       Loan
--uJ$ nlillion-
Septemnber
Decermber                      1.00              1.00               3
1977       March                           1.00               2.00              6
Jwne                           1.50               3.50             12
September                      1.00               4.50             15
December                        2.00              6.50             22
1978       March                           2.50              9.00              30
June                           2.00             11.00              37
September                      2.50             13.50              45
Decera.ber                      2.50             16.00             53
1979       Mia'ch                          3.00             19.00              63
June                           1.50              20.50             68
SeDtomber                      2e00              22. '50           75
Decem.ber                      0.50              23.00             77
1980       March                           1.00              21. OV0           80
June                            2. 50            26.5(             88
Septembher                     0.60              27 .G')           90
Decemlber                      1.50              28.50             95
1981       March                           0.50              29.00 -7
Jiine                          1.00              30.00            100



ANM~E 114-
Table 14.3
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Completion_Payments
Project Items
100% Disbursement                            Current $ Million!/  Foreign Exchange %
Schools in  Baturaja Project                        0.14                   30
Health Facilities in Baturaja Project               0.52                   30
Water Supplies in Baturaja Project                  0.91                   62
Subsistence Package for Baturaja Settlers            1.90                  73
Staff Salaries (2 years)
-  Baturaja Village Management                    0.10                   -
-  Baturaja Health Service Staff                  0.03
Malaria Program in Baturaja Area                    0.04                   -
Agricultural Credit for Baturaja                                           7
Settlers (2 years)                                 2I0
Say $4.5 million
1/ Excluding physical contingencies



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(Current $ million)
Consultants
Civil Equipment    Agro-           Rubber                & Technical    All    Sub-
Works & Vehicles   Chemicals   Development    Cattle    Services        Other   Total   Unallocated   Total
1975 - Local       0.07     0.02                 -                    -          -          0.02     0.11
- Foreign      -       0.11                 -                    -          -           -       0.11
- Total       0.07     0.13          -             -             -          -         0.02      0.22
1976 - Local       2.19     0.45         0.01          0.33          0.09       0.26        1.18     4.51
- Foreign     2.36     1.36         0.07          0.22          0.10       0.61        0.84     5.56
- Total       4.55     1.81         0.08          0.55          0.19       0.87        2.02    10.07
1977 - Local       1.68     0.14         0.02          0.59          0.10       0.91        1.37     4.81
- Foreign     1.59     0.45         0.11          0.42          0.10       1.55        0.99     5.21
- Total       3.27     0.59         0.13          1.01          0.20       2.46        2.36    10.02
1978 - Local       1.95     0.16         0.03          0.92          0.17       0.69        1.67     5.59
- Foreign     1.78     0.49         0.19          0.77          0.17       1.13        1.02
- Total       3.73     0.65         0.22          1.69          0.34       1.B2        2.69    10.14
1979 - Local       2.01      0.10        0.05          1.42          0.24       0.44        1.86     6.12
- Foreign     1.72     0.32         0.26          1.13          0.24       0.50        1.16     5.33
- Total       3.73     0.42         0.31          2.55          0.48       0.94        3.02    -1.45
1980 - Local       0.45      0.02        0.07          1.69          0.33       0.14        1.72    14.42
- Foreign     0.74     0.05         0.36          1.40          0.33       0.16        0.23     3.27
- Total       1.19     0.07         0.43          3.09          0.66       0.30        1.95     7.63
Total Cost
- Local       8.35     0.89         0.18          4.95          0.93       2.44        6.80    24.54        2.28      26.82
- Foreign     8.19      2.78        0.99          3.94          0.94       3.95        5.26    26.05        3.95      30.00
- Total      1654      3.67         1.17          8.89          1.87       6.39       12.06    50.59        6.23     _582
cr



ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Markets, Processing, Prices and Farmer Incomes
A. Markets
Way Abung
1.        Local market places exist in most villages in Way Abung, each
with at least two market days a week. These markets serve itinerant traders
bringing in both food and consumer products; the local farmers consume most
of their farm production and offer only cassava for sale to recognized agents
of the processors in Tanjung Karang.
2.        The condition of the roads in Way Abung result in high prices for
consumer goods, and low prices for products bought from the farmers. How-
ever, once the roads have been improved through the project, and some local
cooperative processing units established through BRI financing of the KUD's,
the market price structure will become more representative of local supply
and demand levels, rather than transportation costs, and general market
transparencies.
Baturaja
3.        As the settlers will receive both food and cash payments for
work during rubber planting, the markets are expected to become estab-
lished fairly rapidly. The price differential problems encountered in
Way Abung will be avoided because of the standard of road construction
in the project area, and the proximity of a major market at Baturaja.
4.        Marketable food surpluses will be very low.  If the KUD's can
arrange bulk sales to traders, especially of processed, or cubed cassava,
the low volume price disadvantage could be offset to the farmers' advan-
tage. BRI is expected to participate in financing both capital equipment
and working capital for local KUD's.
B. Processing
5.        Besides the already mentioned small-scale cassava processing and
rice milling to be undertaken at the village-KUD level, the major need in
both project areas will be for rubber processing. The rubber market in



ANNEX 16
Page 2
both Lampung and South Sumatera has been characterized by its transparency, 1/
and by the poor quality of block rubber produced in the traditional small-
holder sector.
6.        To enable the project beneficiaries to receive the highest possi-
ble price for rubber, group coagulation centers at the duku level is envi-
saged. Marketing of the sheet rubber produced from these GCC's would be
marketed in bulk through the village cooperative. This cooperative/GCC
structure will require credit from BRI and the KIK/KMKP programs for both
the capital equipment and sufficient working capital to allow for inventory
build-up during low rubber price periods.
7.        This rubber processing complex will require both capital inputs
and an extension service. Assurances will be sought from GOI that a plan
for the coordinated development of rubber processing in the project areas
will be developed and presented to the Bank by 1980.
C. Rubber
8.        The Demand Outlook for Natural Rubber.  Between 1973 and 1980, con-
sumption of natural rubber is forecast 2/ to grow at an average rate of 4.9%
per annum in developed countries, where natural rubber is expected to gain
from the shift to radial tires. According to the forecast natural rubber
would maintain about 32% of the world market for all elastomers outside the
centrally planned countries. For the world as a whole, the market share of
natural rubber would marginally decline from 32.3% in 1973 to 31.0% in 1980.
World net exports of natural rubber would grow during this period at 4.8%
per annum, an increase of 1 percentage point per annum over the average rate
of expansion experienced in the sixties.
9.         Beyond 1980 the demand prospects for natural rubber still appear
to be quite favorable. World demand for all rubbers is projected to grow
at 5.6% per annum between 1980 and 1985. Potential supply of natural rub-
ber, with existing acreage and available production technology is, however,
projected to grow during this period at a much slower rate than in the
seventies - at 3.6% per annum. This implies that by 1985 the market share
of natural rubber outside the centrally planned countries would decrease to
30% because of insufficient supplies. 3/ To maintain 32% of this market -
a feasible objective in terms of the technical and economic potential of
1/   Sumatra Regional Planning Study Lampung and South Sumatra Provinces,
- Rural Marketing System, Bonn University, March 1974.
2/   Based on IBRD Commodities Report, July 1975.
3/   The centrally planned countries are assumed to continue to pursue a
self-sufficiency policy in rubbers. Their utilization of natural rub-
bers is forecast to grow only marginally between 1980 and 1985.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
natural rubber - producers would have to increase their output at about
5.0% per annum between 1980 and 1985. The likely shortfall in natural
rubber availabilities in the 1980's points to the need for additional
plantings beyond that envisaged by the existing expansion plans.
10.       The Price Outlook for Natural Rubber.  Over the long run the prices
of natural rubber are constrained by those of synthetic rubbers. The price
of natural rubber has to be such that it competes effectively with the avail-
able synthetic substitutes, although in the short-rurn it may diverge from
this trend. Natural rubber producers, with a projected 32% of the total
market for elastomers, are essentially price takers. The long-term price of
natural rubber is, therefore, forecast on the basis of the expected future
trends in the cost/price of SBR 1/ which is taken to be the floor below which
natural rubber prices cannot fall for any protracted period of time.
11.        Beyond 1980, despite the relatively good demand outlook, the price
prospects of natural rubber appear to be favorable if one assumes that crude
oil prices will remain constant - and that no major shift in the location of
the petrochemical industry away from developed countries and in the direction
of the basic raw material source - oil - will take place in the 1980's. A
drop in the price of oil would again make the synthetic rubber feedstocks
cheaper and increase the relative competitiveness of general purpose syn-
thetic rubbers. Similarly, a large, uncoordinated expansion of production
capacity for petrochemicals in oil producing countries would increase the
supply of these products and - other things being equal - depress their
prices to the advantage of synthetic rubber manufactures.
12.       For the 1985-1990 period lower prices are projected, based on a
further decline in world demand and lower chemical feed stock prices for
synthetic rubbers. Table 16.1 indicates the project c.i.f. rubber prices
and Table 16.2 converted to the farmgate.
D. Farm-Gate
13.       Rice:  Rice is presently bought and sold by Bulog at a subsidized
level in relation to the world market price. It is GOI's intention to slowly
decrease the level of the subsidy so that by 1985 no subsidy is expected. The
international price for 5% unbroken rice is projected to fall from the 1975
level of $395/ton (Rp 164/kg) to $324 per ton (Rp 134/kg) in 1985. This is
equivalent to the present subsidized farm gate price of Rp 115/kg for 10-20%
broken milled which would be the unsubsidized level in 1985.
14.       Cassava.  As no international projects are available for cassava
the current price of Rp 8/kg wet being offered in Way Abung, and based on
the current $125/ton c.i.f. Germany, is assumed constant over the life of
the project. This is a conservative assumption as the cassava price in Way
1/   Synthetic rubber:  Styrene - butadene rubber.



ANNEX 16
Page 4
Abung is presently low. However, Lampung and South Sumatera are increasing
the volume of commercially produced cassava, and a balance position border-
ing on the oversupply is predicted for the long run, therefore maintaining
this presently "depressed" price as the projected long range price.
15.       Other Crops.  As Indonesia does not participate in international
trade in these commodities and most are consumed by settlers themselves or
sold in local village markets, current market prices have been used (Table
16.5).
16.       Fertilizer.  For Urea and TSP, applied to food crops, the present
subsidized BIMAS price of Rp 80/kg has been assumed to remain constant,
throughout the project life, as the GOI will gradually reduce the subsidy
level as the future international price of fertilizer declines. 1/ For fer-
tilizers applied to rubber trees, Table 16.6 indicates the conversion of the
projected international prices to local farmgate prices. Fertilizer applied
to rubber during the development phase (Annex 7) has been costed in 1976
prices, and the projected price decline accounted for in the price contin-
gency.
E. Farm Incomes
17.       Farm income projections are presented in Tables 16.3 and 16.4 for
Baturaia and Way Abung.
1/ IBRD, Price Forecasts of Major Primary Commodities, Annex IV, p. 19.



ANNEX 16
Table 16.1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATURAL RUBBER PRICES: RSS 1, c.i.f. New York.
( /lb.)
Current $          1975 $ /1
(Constant)
1967           19.90              40.45      )
1968           19.84              40.80      )
1969           26.19              51.76      )
1970           20.98              38.71      )
1971           18.10              31.37        Actual
1972           19.24              29.09      )
1973           35.66              48.12      )
1974           39.26              43.52      )
1975           31.00              31.00      )
1976           36.70              33.70      )
1977           42.80              36.40      )
1978           47.70              37.75      )
1979           53.10              39.10      )
1980           56.90              39.10      ) Forecast
1981           63.00              40.45      )
1982           67.40              40.45      )
1983           69.70              39.10      )
1984           74.60              39.10      )
1985           79.80              39.10      )
1986           85.40              39.10      )
1987           88.20              37.75      ) Extended
1988           94.40              37.75       ) Forecast
1989           97.40              36.40       )
1990          104.00              36.40      )
/1 1975 $ forecast prices are not rounded.
Source: IBRD Commodities Division



(Co ta t 1976 Rp/kg dro)
1977       1978      1979-0       198142    1983-86       1987-88   1989 award
CIF NM rork                    362.74      376.19      389.65      403.10      389.65      376.19      362.74
Loess Transportation & Iumrance      56.28       56.28       56.28      56.28       56.28       56.28       56.28
FOS Pries                       306.46     319.91      333.37      346.82      333.37      319.91      306.46
Less I sport TaK (5% FOM)            15.32       16.00       16.67      1734-   16.67           16.00       15.32
Not Sales Price                 291.14     303.91      316.70      329.48      316.70      303.91      291.14
Las Bank Charges, Storage &
Marketing                      2.70       2.70        2.70        2.70        2.70        2.70        2.70
let Price Received by Co-op     288.44     301.21      314.00      326.78      314.00      301.21      288.44
Least Proc elug & S9okng            18.50       18.50       18.50       18.50      18.50       18.50       18.50
Srans part to Harbor           10.80       10.80       10.80       10.80       10.80       10.80       10.80
Peaking   -                     5.50        5.50        5.50        5.50        5.50        5.50        5.50
Co-op/GC Xanagmet               2.20        2.20        2.20        2.20        2.20        2.20        2.20
htnw r' Faruate Roe.ipt         251..44    264.21      277.00      289.78      277.00      264.21      251.44
I/  ieed an Table 16.1 for 3R5 1.



I NDONESIA
TRANSHIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PaF   Income Statmnt - Botrojal
(Constant 1976 Rp 080)
5936    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2t00    2001
Value of Production
Garden  1/                        -      21.3    25.8    30.8    38.9    45.0    45.0   45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0
Rio. @ Rp 85/kg padi                     3 54.0    61.2    63.8    66.3    68.0    68.0    55.3    55.3    55.3    55.3    55.3    62.9    62.9    62.9    62.9    62.9    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5
Gro-neusto  Rp 120/kg
unsbelled                      -      21.6    43.2    43.2    43.2    48.0   48.0   44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2
Cseenva 4 Rp 8/kg not             -      12.8    20.8    20.8    22.4    24.0    24.0    24.0       9.6      9.6     9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6
R    rbb-                                              -           -       -                  4   138.5   193.9   277.0   290.6   317.1   301.      7   301.     7   301.7   501.7   501.7   301. 7 31.7   2746.  251.4  226.3  201.2   176.0
Totel Velue                    -      89.7   151.0   158.6   170.7   185.0  185.0  224.1   292.8   348.2   431.3   444.9   479.0   474.4   474.4   474.4   474.4   482.0   482.0   482.0  482.0   456.9   431.7   406.6   381.5   356.5
Cost of Prdction  2/
Rice 4 Rp 18,750/ha              7.5     11.3    11.3    11.3      7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5
Groondnute 9 Rp 45,000/he         _      18.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    16.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0
Ca.eave 19 Rp 8,000/ha                    3 5.2   4.8      4.8     4.8     4.8      4.8     0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8     8.8      0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8
Rubbor 4 Rp 20,500/ha             -       -       _        -        -       -       -      20.3    20.4   200.5    20.5    20.       20.3             20.5    20.5 20.5    2. 5    20.1    2.                   20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    29.5
Smll tool replcotmnot            _         _       -       _       -        -       3.0     3.0      5.0     3.0     8.0    10. 0    10 .0    10.5    10      10.0    10.0    10.0    10. 0    10       0 10      0.0    0 10    10.0    10.0    10.0
Total Cost                    7.5     32.5    43.1    43.1    39.3    39.3    33.3    49.6    49.7    49.8    54.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8    56.8
N-t Value of Production         (7.5)    47.2   107.9   115.5   131.4   145.7  151.7   174.5   243.1   298.4   376.5   388.1   422.2   417.6   417.6   417.6   417.6   425.2   425.2   425.2  425.2   400.1   374.9   349.8   324.7   294.5
Constant 1976 $            (18)     114     260      278     317     351    365      420      586     719      907     935    1017    1006    1006    1006    1006    1025    0025    1025    1025         964     903      843     782      722
other Incose
Off farm eo1oym ct 3/             -     141.0    70.5    40.0    32.9    28.2    22.1       -        .       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -
Sale of young cattla              -       -        -       -        -       -       -      50.0      -      50.0      -      50.0     -      50.0      -      50.0      .      50.0             50.0     -       50.0     -      50.0      -      50.0
Ponltry/egge                     0.0     16.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0
Lose:  Ipede Tes  7/              -       -        -       -        -       7.3    7.6      0.7    12.2    14.9    18.8    19.4    21.1    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3    20.0    18.7    17.5    16.2    15.0
Net inco-o                       0.5    204.2   131.9   179.5   188.3   190.6  190.2   239.8   254.9   357.3   381.7  442.7   425.1   470.7   420.7   470.7   420.7   477.9   427.9   477.9  427.9   454.1   380.2   406.3   332.5   358.5
Constant 1976 $              1      492     318      433     454     459    458       578     614     861      920    1067    1024    1134    1014    1134    1014    1152    1031    1151    1031    1094          916     979     801      864
Las Sbuisstnce                 120 4/   160 3/ 180       180     180      180     180     200 6/  200      200     200      200     250     250      250     250      250     250     250      250     250      250     250      250     250     250
Cash Equivalent               (119.5)    44.2  (48.1)   (0.5)    8.3    10.6    10.2    39.8    54.9   157.3   181.7   242.7   175.1   220.7   170.7   220.7   170.7   227.9   177.9   227.9  177.9   204.1   130 2   156.3    82.5   108.5
Constant 1976 $          (288)     107   (116)       (1)     20      26       25      96     132      379     438     585      422     532      411     532     411      549     429      549     429     492      314     377      199     261
1/  Des  Teble 16.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o'
2/ Tble 5.11
0. O  robber pl..ting and mitee..c -ys              2     3     4    5    6   47                                                                                                                                                                       S
4/ Pr e-ge of nine eooths. 
5/  huludieg non-fond it-.
7/  5c%    s reflects distay shift to hotter calotia/prtein halac-
lf5% of Met Vslu  of Prduction.



I1702HES 7A                                                                                                      ANNEX 16
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                       Table 16.4
Way Abong PF- In.ome Stat-met
(Constant 1976 Rp '00)
Pre-set   1977       1978      1979    1980      1981     1982      1983    1984    1985       1986     1987      1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      20D0      2001
Value of ProductioD
1/
Gard.nm                    25,8      38         38.8     45.0    45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0    45.0    45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0     43.8      45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      40.0      45 0      45.0     45.0
Rice A Rp 85/kg padi       29.8      29.8       59.5     43.4    51.0      51.0      51.0      51.0    51.0    51.0      51.0      51.0     51.0      51.0      51.0     51.0      51.0     51.0      51.0      51.0      51.0     51.U      51.0      51.0      51.0     51.0
Gro2=dRlttt   Rp 120/kg
u. sebllad               30.0      30.0      42.0      36.0    43.2      43.2      43.2     43.2    43.2    43.2       43.2     43.2      43.2      43.2     43.2      43.2      43.2     43.2      43.2      43.2      43.2     43.2      43.2      43.2     43.2      43.2
Ceasoav  3 Rp 8/kg net     24.0      24.o       24.0     28.8    36.0      36.0      36.0      36.0    36.0    36.0      36.0      36.0     36.0      36.0      36.0     56.0      36.0      36.0     36.0      36.8      36.8      36.0     30.0      36.0      36.0      36.0
Rubber           -                   -          -         -       -         -        29.0      69.3    97.U   139 5    152.4    156.1    158 5    100.9    150.0    130.9    230.9    13U.9    USU.9    UU.5    1503.9    135.8    122.2    110.0                99.0      89.1
Total Vo.ue             109.6    114.6       164.3    153.2   175.2    175 2    204.2    244.5   272.2   313.7    327.6    333.7    333,7    326.1    32h.1    32Z.1    326.1    326.1    326.1    326.2    326.1    311.0    297 4    285.2    274.2    264.3
ZJ
CLst nf Production
Rice 63 kp 18,750/ha         1.8      9.4        5.6      5.6      5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6     5.6      5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6
Urouenute 29 Rp 45,080/ha 14.0       23.5       13.5     13.5    13.5      13.5      13.5      13.5    13.5    13.5       13.5     13.5      13.5     t3.5      13.5      13.0     13.5      03.5      13.3     13.5      13.5      13.5      19.5     13.5      13.5      13.0
ca.saa A Rp 8,0009/h        -         4.0        2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4       2.4       2.4     2.4      2.4      2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4
Robber 63 Rp 20,500/ha      -         -          -        .        -        -         -        10.3    10.3    10.3      10.3      10.3      10.3     10.3      10.3     10.3      10.3      10.3      10.3     10.3      10.3      10.3      10.3     10.3      10.3      1083
Swe11 tOJI r.plapaeeot       _        3          3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0       0 3     3.0      0 3      3.0       8.0      8.0       8.8       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0      8.C       8.0       a.0       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0
Total Cost               15.8      33.9       24.5     24.5    24.5      24.5      24.5      34.8    34.8    34.8      34.8      39.8     39.8      39.8      39.8     39.8      39.8      39.8     39.8      39.8      39.8      39.8     39.8      39.8      39.8     39.8
Net Value of Pfoduttito       93.8     75.7      139.8    128.7   150.7    150.7    179.7    209.7   237.4   278.9    292.8    293.9    293.9    286.3    286.3    286.3    286,3    286.3    286.3    286.3    286.3    271.2    257 6    245.4    234.4    224.5
Other Loanem
3/
Off.fare soplay.ent        55.4      55.4       55.4     55.4    55.4      55.4      55.4      55.4    55.4    55.4      55.4      55.4     55.4      55.4      55.4      55.4     55.4      55.4      55.4      55.4     55.4      55.4      55.4     95.4      55.4      55.4
Dole of eggn               24.0      24.0       24.0     24.0    24.0      24.0      24.0      24.0    24.0    24.0       24.0     24.0      24.0     24.0      24.0      24.0     24.0      24.0      24.0     24.0      24.0      24.0      24.0     24.0      24.0      24.0
Sair of ened tattle         -         - _                 -        -        -        50.n       -      50.0      -       5G.0       -       50. '      -        50.0      -        50.0       -        50.0      -        50.0       -       50.0       -        50.0       -
Ltae: IPEDA Tours 4/        4.7       3.8        7.0      6.4      7.3      7.5       9,0      10.5    11.9    13.9     14.6       14.7      14.7      4.3       4.3      1        14.3      54.3      14.3      14.1     14.2      13.0      12.9     12.3      10.7      11.2
Tntal Intone            168.5   151.3       212.2    201.7   222.6    222.6    300.1    278.6   354.9   344.4    407.6    358.6    408.6    351.4    401.4    351.4    401.4    351.4    401.4    351.4    401.4    337.0    374.1    312.5    302.1    292.7
Cnoetant 1976 $         406       365       511       486     536       536      723       671      855     830       982      864       985       847       967      847       967      847       967       847       967      812       901       753       848       705
Subsiaterce                  180      180        180 181           180      ISO       180       180     2001/   200       200       204      208       250A/    250       250       250       250      250       790       758       238      200       258       258       250
Comh lqo1olmnt/(Dleflait)   (11.5)  (28.7)        32.2     21.7    42.6      42.6    120.1       98.0   154.9   144.4    207.6    158.6    208.6    101.4    151.4    101.4    151.4    101.4    151.4    101.4    151.4              87.0    124.1       62.5    102.1      42.7
Cunetast 1976 $              (27.7)  (69.0)       78       52      103      103       289       238     373      348      500       382      503       244       365       244      365       244       365      244       365       210       299       151      246       103
1/ Sea Table 16.5
2/ Table 5.11
3/  A.e-   present leol of off-farm employmeot  -uld be mai-tinmd thtough p-ritlpoti-on
in robber dnvalop-oont, infra -trootoretonstruction other off--the-e opporton- ee,-
valued at 8p4i0/day.
4/ At 52 of net n             _lan of productton.
5/  Inarease to reflsat iPproved talorin/protoen baloote.



ANNEX 16
Table 16.5
INDONESIA
TRAN3IGRATION AMD RURAL DEVELOPNMJT PROJECT
Garden Production and Value
Value
Value/                                                  at Full
Unit   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Production
A. GARDEN
Fruits
Bananas (bunches)     110        25       25       25       25        25      2,750
Papaya                 25       200      208      208      208       208      5,200
Pineapple              35       -         30       30      30         30      1,050
Jackfruit              80        -        -        -        -         50      4,000
Rambutan (bunches)    100        -        -        -       30         30      3,000
Citrus                 15        -        -        75     150        150       2,250
Vegetables                                                                     18,250
Cassava leaves (bnchs) 15      360       360      360     360        360      5,400
$weet potatoes (kg)     5       30        30       30      30         03        450
Sweet potato leaves
(bunches)           15      150       150      150     150        15D        750
Green beans (kg)      130        20       20       20       20        20      2,600
Long beans (bunches)  10         15       15       15       15        15        150
Long beans leaves
(bunches)            5       50        50       50      50         50        250
5esame (kg)            50        5         5        5       5          5        300
Sweet corn (cobs)       5      200       200      200     200        200        250
Soybeans (kg)          60        5         5        5       5          5      1,000
11,150
Other
Coffee (kg dry)       350        -        10       10      10         10      3,500
Coconuts (nuts)        15        --                -        -        150       2,250
Cloves (kg)         1,100        -        -         7        7         7      7,700
Chili peppers,
tomatoes, markise,
sourson, etc. (Rp)2,150    2,150    2,1.50    2,150   2,150      2,150      2,150
TOTAL VALUE (Rp)                21,300   25,800   30,800  38,800    45,000      45,000
B. POULTRY
Eggs                   20       850      850      850      850       850     17,000
Chickens              500        14       14       14       14        14      7,000
TOTAL VALUE (Rp)               24,000   24,000   24,ooo  24,000   24,000        24,000
- ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ -... -   --



ANNEX 17
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Rate of Return - Baturaja
1.        For the economic evaluation of this model the following assumptions
were made:
(a) Taxes: all export for rubber were added to the net value of the
farm output (Table 16.2); Ipeda taxes were added back to the value
of production;
(b) Off-farm employment wages from paid labor in the development
of the rubber were excluded from the benefit stream;
(c) Cattle income was included, and the value of the animal
returned to DGT under the heifer return scheme was valued
at Rp 50,000. The animal received from DGT was costed
at Rp 120,000 to include an allocation of the cattle
infrastructure/village bull unit costs;
(d) Charges against benefit stream are:
-    settler selection & transportation costs (Table 17.6)
-    the subsistence grant package, including housing (Table
17.5)
-    PMU Site Management for six years and Village Management
for the life of the project (Table 11.2)
-    Maintenance of roads and buildings charged from year
five, on the basis of materials. (Labor would be through
gotong-royong evaluated in the shadow wage rate.)
2.        Shadow Foreign Exchange:  as a measure of resource scarcity the for-
eign exchange portions of the cost and benefit streams were valued at 125% of
the official exchange rate.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
3.        Shadow Wage Rate
i.   The Impact of Out-Migration.  Removal of families from Java, and
therefore from the labor force, would, because of the underemploy-
ment situation, not cause a decline in agricultural output in Java,
i.e. the labor force would become marginally more productive on a
per capita basis, the limit to total productivity being determined
by land/capital constraints, rather than labor constraints.
ii.   Observation in Java indicates that underemployment is disguised
through labor intensive activities of marginal value (e.g. basket
weaving, tapping a few coconut trees for small amounts of sugar
etc.). A decrease in underemployment as a result of Transmigra-
tion may reduce the output of these marginal goods. However
within a family context, additional "entries" into the labor
market by wife or children to continue these activities for
supplemental income is equally probable. This would argue on
the grounds of "output foregone" that the shadow rate is zero.
iii.   Disutility of Labor.  The transfer from one marginal activity to
a less marginal activity as a result of the decline in under-
employment, would not increase the amount of time spent at labor
(i.e. will not decrease leisure). However the nature of the
activity may require additional expenditure of effort, which
could be considered as a cost on two possible grounds: -
(a) increased food consumption to fuel the effort;
(b) disutility of effort.
iv.   Within the strict interpretation of an economic rate of return
the "cost" of increased consumption is a transfer payment and
should not be included. However it has been proposed as a
proxy for measuring the disutility of effort (in the absence
of any market determined rate, or as the shadow evaluation of
this parameter).
v.   The marginal wage rate of Rp 210/day paid, in accordance with
minimum wage laws paid by para-statal estates, could be con-
sidered at the reservation wage 1/, or the measure of disutility
of labor. As non-agricultural employment (marginal employment)
is estimated to occupy 50% of the target groups annual labor
contribution, withdrawal from Java to a full employment situa-
tion on Sumatera would imply an incremental 150 mandays of
labor, for the man, and 75 days for his wife, priced at the
1/   That wage below which no labor would be offered because of the personal
preference for leisure.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
shadow rate. This would total Rp 47,250/annum in relation to
the minimum subsistence considerations used in the green cover
of $180,000/annum, this is a shadow rate of 26% of msl.
4.        Road, Village and Social Infrastructure was charged against the
project at 100% of cost.
5.         Sensitivity testing:  Table 1 indicates the impact on the ROR
of declines in rubber price, estimated yields, partial failure of the food
crops.
B. Rate of Return - Way Abung
6.        Similar assumptions to those used to determined the ROR for
Baturaja, were employed for evaluating the investment in Way Abung.
7.        The output from the farms is expected to decline without the
project, but the present situation has been used as a proxy for the
"Twithout" project, as the most conservative assumption.



ANNEX 17
Table 1
TRANSMIGRATICN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return
Sensitivity Tests: % Variation
Base       -20    -10    +10      +20
BNAT9RATA
Base Casse S11.5
Rubber Price/Yields                      9.9   10.8  12.1   12.9
Food Crop Yields                        10.6   11.1  12.0   12.4
INPRASTRUCTURE COST CHANGE
+25% -                       10.7
-Rubber Price/Yields                     9.1    10.0  11.4  12.1
-Food Crop Yields                        9.9    10.3  11.2  11.6
-25%
-Rubber Price/Yields         12.4
-Food Crop  Yields                      10.8    11.6  13.1  13.8
11.5    11.9  12.9  14.6
WAY ABUNG
h.qR  aqr__v            19.1
-Rubber Price/Yields                    17.2     18.2  20.0  20.8
Food Crop Yields                       14.6    16.8  21.6  24.2
INFRASTRUCTURE COST CHANGE
+25%                         18.2
-Rubber Price/Yield                     16.3      17.3  19.1  19.9
-Food Crop Yiels                        13.9      16.0  20.5  22.9
-25%                         20.2
-Rubber Price/Yield                     18.2      19.2  21.1  21.9
-Food Crop Yield                        15.3      17.7  22.8  25.6
a/. Base case shadow pricing
- Foreign Exchange   125%
- Labor at Rp 210/day



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRANSMIGRATION BODIES CREATED IN
PRESIDENTIAL DECREE #29, 1974
NATIONAL LEVEL                                                          PROVINCIAL LEVEL                                                             DISTRICT LEVEL
GUIDANCE BODY                                                      ____ ____ ____
S  IMPLEMENTATION BODYa
Chief        Minister Transmigration                              Chief          Provincial Governor                                       Chief           Bupati
Departments  Public Works & Power                                 Members    : Local Officers of:                                          Members    : Local Officers of concerned Agencies
Communications                                                   -Public Works & Power                                        Executive   : Kabupaten representative of Dept. of
Agriculture                                                        Communications                                                            Transmigration or alternate
Interior                                                         - Agriculture
Health                                                           -Health
Education & Culture                                              - Education & Culture
Finance                                                          -BAPPENAS
Defense & Security                                               -BRI
Information                                                      -Others nominated by Governor
Research                                             Executive     Director General for Transmigration
BAPPENAS
BRI
Secretary    : Director General for
Transmigration  1
Duties: Coordination, Planning, execution, controlling                         Duties:  Deciding on prn,',wiai policies and                    Duties: Coordination and administration of local
and supervision of development ir Transmigration                               priorities                                                      operations and project and implemtation
areas at both national and regional levels
I S-v Chart 94231 R) Organization of Department of Transmigration                                                                                                                      World Bank-9346(3R)






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF DIRECTORATE GENERAL TRANSMIGRATION
UE AL AUTHORITIES
CREATED IN
MNISTER FOR                                                                                                                     PREESIDENTIAL DECREE
MANPOWER                                                                                      #29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1074
COOPERATIVES AND                                                                                                                SECAT94
TRANSMIGREAT4IONSEE CHART 934
DIRECTOR GENERAL
TRANSMIGRATION
DRCOAEOF               DR          .lR      1DSCOAE0
|  TRAINING    1          |  DIRECTORATE OF |          | DIRCTTORATE OF                 DIRECTORATE OF
SECRETARIAT             |  RESEARCH AND                  P          A                PROJECT            |        |            R I T               A GUIDANCE
PROGRAMMINO                                               AN A ENN
EVALUATION                                               IMPLEMENTATIONI
ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                                                                                   _                                                                   A
PRJCT
MANAGEMENT                                                                     <
PERSONNEL                                                                                                                                                           UNITS
SEE CHIAT 149U
FINANCE
LOGISTICS
RESEARCH AND
DATA PROCESSING
I ~  ~~~~~                                                                   - 
PROVINCIA A
DIRECTOHS                              GUDAC
- Th.s D-lrstoral .,II 1. rv-e thF threeBOD
Dswote  trlso th M.-I,ty, ..d                                                                                                                 _       PROJECTrr                                                                                         D
_IMANAGl                       vTNERS   DNA ON
SEE CHART 15548           SEE CHARTS 155469
____ ___ ____ __   ____ ___ ___ __    I ___ ____ __2 ___






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PROVINCIAL DIRECTORATE FOR TRANSMIGRATION
IN RECEIVING AND SETTLEMENT AREAS
PROVINCIAL
DIRECTOR
FOR
TRANSMIGRATION
|RSECRETARIAT   O                                               D
|ADMINISTRATION|
PLANNING&              P                                 SETTLR                 D     L
PROGRAMMING     IMPLEMENTATION                     PAENTGUIDANCE
DISTRICT
REPRESENTATIVES
PLANNING &              PREPARATION               DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMMING            &&
IMPLEMENTATION           GUIDANCE
VILLAGE      1
MANAGEMENT
WVorld Bank-15546(R)






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF
PROVINCIAL DIRECTORATE FOR TRANSMIGRATION
IN AREAS OF ORIGIN
PROVINCIAL
DIRECTOR FOR
TRANSMIGRATION
PLANNiNG       ~RECRUITMENT &                TRANSPORTATION
PROGRAMMING           SELECTION
DISTRICT
REPRESENTATIVE
INFORMATION            RECRUITMENT           TRANSPORTATION
World Bank-15547(R)






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IBRD PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
DIRECTOR
FOR
TRANSMIGRATION
FINANCE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
PROJECT                                                                 D RECO
DIRECTOR                                                                DTR AIC
TEAM (TA)                                            R
PROCUREMENT                                       AL                                                                             L~~~~~~~~~~~~ARIULURLADISTAVELND SETTLEMENT
ASSISTANT   N   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SSSANSASSISTANTS                                                                                                              SITN
SITE MANAGERMS AADISTRICT
L(2)             __________ - -L -                                            ERSNTATIVE
ITAI~IT _________________________~t~nO
UNITS (2E
FlAGRICULTURAL IF                     ERN I                             1ADMINISTRATIVE       11ADSETMNI
I     SITASSISTANTS               SITNS I||ASSISTANTS                                     |       ASSISTANT    I
(TA)  f..d.d lh,ongh 7.chnicWf Awsstn.
World Bank-15548(2R)






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Organization of Provincial and District Medical Services
PRESIDEN I R.I.
>X                                    
LU
MINISTER                                             MINISTER OF INTERNAL AFFAIS 
z
0
COMMUNICABLE
MEDICAL       DISEASE            DRUG AND
CARE          CONTROL            FOOD CONTROL
PROVINCIAL HEALTH INSPECTOR (IKES) ..........................  GOVERNOR OF THE PROVINCE
_               _          MEDICAL CARE
0 >
a: 11        -| COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL
DRUG AND FOOD CONTROL
DISTRICT HEALTH OFFICER                              DISTRICT ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
s(DOKABU)                                                     (   --   BUPAXTII
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E PA II
LJ
>               _          MEDICAL CARE
COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL
Cl       A     N    D  ~~~~FOOD CONTROL
_  KECAMATAN OFFICER
it '  PUSKESAMAS                                   (CAMAT)
t-  w1                         |    SUEBl                                  |  KELURAHAN  OFFICER
- i                                 CLINICS                    |LURANI
en>                                                                                             I
VILLAGE CHIEF
_ MOTHER & CHILD n    VILLAGE       7                              (KEPALA KAMPUNG)
_ HEALTH CLINICS   l    HEALTH POSTS                                               B
I      I                                                                     World Bank 15741






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Ministry of Health
National Level'-
MINISTER OF HEALTH
-                                                                                          -|~,tn  C nh tr
Healt  Rfsi
_ PIrirnirot(                                     (.enter for
S    Penstinnel                                      Rnd Tijinitet                                 Research in'
Cace- and
F-nnce                                                                                                   IV
- Logistics
Legislation & Pol1tic Helatitus                                                              (ti;rmer
_  Ope.wo+                            _  ~~~~~~~~General Affairs                                                                        Rir>sisr il
Center he
Rptri,ilti
Resea-h
rdnt Dee
-ct.,ut               ate~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teiici:a
I'le   c,el             Generol            |                                                                                  t    (.,hS  
-CC D-,C
| Dhlctmeit  t  L K Ni
{   1.1 He.lBll  1   {  111   1_   |  of Controls 10,  at    ,a atiDra
|   Ed-!m sIoll  l  l             X  HMol)la.lls      l                  |  ol Annnm,l       H                   |  Control          I  l                               I   center, f       I
LI - I 1111"                           Gamrle          l   l                                      l                               l          cEc
s   I  t  Diseases  I  |                                   I                               I   Stadies anlI
| 'a>1 F.mile    DH  |              toraHe.lrh                                                                D I  Dlrectrate  I  " |  ol Footl' H                I   Health Mi-
|          0 ~~~~~Se-vces                             of Direcd                                                                                       Re.,-h
|   |  Fse.(lih   l                     l                                      l                               l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rese.arch
Cant D [ecsoldteal  l  |  D ctrt cof- |  ||  D~,ectololen
Directorate                           eEpdemiology
| ( *Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.ales                                                             | of Cmentl 1.,                  and OutIle,
|  Dlrectorate  l  l                                                |~~~~,, Dei,  D.se-sot                     Cont-I
|  of Commu-  ll   |  Directorate  l   }Dof Hyqiene of
|   iyHeal h                           D,| eclt. _3 e                          Epand  .. Sa 'q                     gf
|  Servces   |              |  Inst~~~~~~~Hallhton                                                             Connon || 
This organagram is in the state ot finalization by the Ministry of Health and will be
tiresented for approval tii the President.                                                                                                                                WWlo  B-kai   15742






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VILLAGE PLAN ALTERNATIVES
ScaIl 1:1000     DISPERSED PLAN                  DETAIL OF PLOTS       Scali 1:100
r~mmm U 
500 X 100
NUCLEATED PLAN                  DETAIL OF PLOTS
J 1711 1 M
500 x 95
LINEAR PLAN                     DETAIL OF PLOTS
~  m            . *1 ,, .  *
500 X 60 RUBBER
500 X 40 ARABLE
m I  BOUNDARY LINES
_    FARM ROADS
-s-  FEEDER ROAD
*   HOUSE
*   VILLAGE CENTER
RUBBER HOLDINGS
VWorld Batik  9509
'77'ARABLE HOLDINGS






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HIERACHY OF VILLAGE GROUPS
r -  -  -  -  -  -  -~ ~~~~~.. ,. - -d; -. ,.. -.. -...
!-i                   - - - !
! -.          .      U-.6-I .                 (T.P- !
j  ~~~~~r l                         1771
-~~~Wrc Bank-9510AGE
I~ ~              I             ILG  ET  TP 1
U~~~~~~~~~~    JUIO  lGHSHO
r  - -    S  saRa  5   a  Se      U    U    U FEEnF   RnAn
'~~~~~ I =
H=j_HS~~~ I                                         U
I~~~~~~~ordBn-50R






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DUKUH PRINCIPLE
J     }                        T     ~~~~~~~~~~MinorRig
Fiifin T,ack     !                i!           I!
Main Ridge                                                           r                          5  iRoad
Farm Road-\1.5 Km
Tributary or Minor Stream
DUKUH'S
DUKUH GROUPING                                 (25-30 Families)
Village Center
2 km approximately
2 ha. plots fronting
onto farm road
| | | |  l       2 i                    #g  1szla  track                        a
CL
B.&fy CT  X,                              XC.
E
0.25 ha house ploI
1.75 annual crops lmnd
t                              SUBDIVISION OF LAND WITHIN
Village Center                                DUKUH FORM
World Bank 15675(R)






INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SETTLER LOW COST HOUSING -FIRST STAGE
TIEf {4L[lLLi
FRONT ELEVATION                                   CROSS SECTION
gutter
 r                        5)_  rainwater collector
inE  l                                     |_    roof overhang
_ - i . *   section *  R   5  & direction of expansion
<0OOQOOO Db+j                                            dF000000>
E                partitioning of shell  [
by transmigrants               gable ventilattion
Io                   verandah                    main flisme posi
3 m             2.5 mn
                                      <I Door
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~v wVVindovv
PLAN
Wotld Bank- 15676(R)






IBRD-113161
0 3'               eX    A <-                                                                 -      ,                     Alembn                                      pOerO.0                                               MePD  tSt X>FF
b  -                                                    -A I_                                                               . I
Lub       uklinggg                        l;                                                                                                                                              I I \\v<  /hD,,fDA/ DRf 4h   --                             i- rO
'      e   :                                                                                                             klw     c    nl_.h. ./Xi  :   
LP,   .tT     G-e   \C-,                                                                                                                                               Q  --
U            M      A    T    E    R                                                                                                         0     F 0  A   $ yc'
::  E  L  A  T_AL
r  3    erll.th3  .roiLEm5ni rsiE                                                 0Il   r    
ODDh_'I-I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~'
pa ~                 ~                -.
Gnungbot,e
WILEAreecrPrewee  Ae-re   Ae
-rYrsed Settl-meet Aeas r,i hetote I r- rsp  m r hkh                                      L   A   P    P   U    N    G
barrdare  -eta ter  be betted
; bssinjd3hti4435  rrA-erb       IrJDv4 L A  M  P  U  N  G j   
. Forpt  Note Wie            ,                  ,,
i N          -     N o Parpsr 3d   NrlYtestcra REads   :   .          '            '           ~     :          '        Kt
Oo.toet,                                                                                                           btse5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.oegorsg
g S z   rr    ' 1 ~      etterroty>   Rq                                                                                      Kooem                                    Te, rbbes *  r
L  r          DPraera Beeoeiarr                    -g          trr           . :              -,X';'L  1-_t_                                                                               V    <_-  
; \  L S: : U5 n  L  $tA r9              9           0 9           er           a  N' 
INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                         I *.topoeg
TRANSMIGRATION AND RUDRA  DEELOPMENT  tOJEC .                                                                                                      Tob -ECT
SETTLEMENT AREAS IN LAMPUNG AND SUMATERA $ELATAN  PItOV1NCES                                                                                                                                      $'3eb44  >@e
reV T9                                                                                                                          .                                                     o -     d  /;; i   E rtr  ;\ |  , FN   :  ll5    .1 SabetC4  C A






IBRD 11317R
FEBRUARY 1976
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WAYABUNG AREA REHABILITATION                                                                         R
NATIONAL HIGHWAY
DISTRICT ROADS                                                                                          Men<a\
VILLAGE ROADS                   Gedungratu
-----.-RAILWAYS
-v-RIVERS
- |-   -- RIVERS                         Q_          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Panaragan Jaai         / 
unungkatn         /                     Trta Kacn 
0         5                10                                                   u unN
I         |             ]                   X L.Karta                           \
KILOMETERS                                               gungan Ratu
TNGT/NGG~0    09-q PAPulnl                                    c Ka=
- MARTAPURAR  V  JAVA       Abung          Tatakarya~~~~~~~~lun Kecan
4  /         / ~~Marg Kencana_/
/ J            \                   Kencana /
l Daya Mu~~~~~~rnK Mulyoar/)
1*  PAIEMBANGI                                         Pu bsakg t'
TE6.lhGTINGG10                                         
,M,ARTAPURA 0     .JAVA                          AK Abung ry
,KOTA.x,u,   SEA                     t /                     7q 
INDIAN OCEAN     ,,JAKARTA                                                 m    rb 
Aotx        . '~~~~~~~  / ~~      A I R F O R C E          \//
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /               _-ebnggi Besar
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~Kali Brlngan  
_ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  0 ELUKB'ETUNG                                                           \



