Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1885-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 25, 1976



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =       Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 415               =       US$1
Rp 1                        US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000         =       US$2,410
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Agraria                  -  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
BAPPENAS                 - National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS                    -  Bimingan Massal (a farm input-credit
package program)
BRI                      -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BUUDS/KUDS               - Agricultural Cooperatives
Bina Marga               - Directorate General of Highways
Desa                     -  Village
DGT                      - Directorate General of Transmigration
Dukuh                    -  Sub-village grouping of 25-30 houses
Gotong-royong            -  Community Self-Help Project
Hak Pakai                -  Individual's right of use or expl8itation
of assigned land
Hak Milik                -  freehold title
INPRES                   - Provincial Public Works Program
Kabupaten                -  Rural District Government
Marga                    -  Community grouping under Adat Law
GOI Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$30 million to help
finance a Transmigration and Rural Development Project. The loan would have
a term of 25 years, including six years of grace, with interest at 8.85 per-
cent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Public Sector Investment
and Financial Resources in Indonesia" of May 24, 1976 (1187-IND) evaluated
and analyzed Indonesia's public sector investment program in relation to
the resource availabilities in the next three years. Country data are shown
in Annex I.
3.        In most respects, Indonesia's economic performance over the last
several years has been impressive. GNP growth has averaged 7.5 percent
despite the ups and downs of the international economy, to which Indonesia,
being an open economy, is vulnerable. The rate of investment and national
savings have risen rapidly, and were both around 19 percent of the GNP in
1974. Net foreign transfers have correspondingly declined as a proportion
of GNP. Agriculture output has expanded at an average rate of 4 to 5 percent
(with rice production expanding in step), which must be regarded as one of
the most satisfactory agricultural growth rates in the region. Modern in-
dustry has been set up, and production of fertilizer and cement is expanding
at a rate so that within the next two or three years, the country is expected
to be self-sufficient. Transport, power and telecommunication systems and
other infrastructure have been improved and strengthened. In short, in its
third year of the Second Development Plan (1974-79), Indonesia's economy is
basically robust-and provides a sharp contrast to the situation less than a
decade ago.
4.        Indonesia, however, is still a very poor country.    The increase in
oil income due to successive price increases in the past few years, though
substantial and valuable, amounted only to about $20 per capita.     The popu-
lation growth rate, with a declining death rate, is rising and is currently
estimated at 2.5 percent, and population pressure on Java has been growing.
Substantial new employment opportunities have been created but much more
needs to be done to provide employment to new entrants into the labor force
and to reduce the existing unemployment and underemployment. General nutri-
tion standards have probably improved, but real wage rates for unskilled



- 2 -
labor are still among the lowest in the region, and have shown only a modest
improvement. The Government is committed to the alleviation of these problems.
Projects to develop the Outer Islands, ameliorate the lot of the poor farmers,
encourage self-help in rural development and improve general living conditions
are receiving the Government's closest attention. Compared to the First De-
elopment Plan (1969-74), the strategy in the Second Plan is much more socially
oriented. However, resources devoted to such projects are still quite small.
5.        The country's resource position, balance of payments and the
Government's budgetary situation have been dominated in the last two to
three years by the developments in the oil sector. First, there were the
successive increases in the price of oil in 1973 and 1974, which resulted
in its quadrupling to $12.60 per barrel within a matter of months. With
this increase, by mid-1974 the balance of payments and budgetary position
of the Government appeared to have improved sustantially. A large increase
in the foreign exchange reserves and, for the first time, in 1974/75 1/
a substantial budget surplus amounting to Rp. 325 billion (about $800
million) were anticipated.
6.        In the course of the year, the Government adjusted its expenditure
plans. Most items in the development budget were revised upwards, some very
substantially, to utilize the prospective surplus. On the current expenditure
side, a large and needed increase in the civil servants' salaries was allowed.
Over the first six months of the fiscal year, the country's foreign exchange
reserves registered an increase of $650 million from a level of $930 million
at the start of 1974/75.
7.        In October 1974, however, the first signs appeared of what turned
out to be a substantial financial overextension by PERTAMINA, the national
oil company. PERTAMINA had undertaken a large and diversified investment
program financed to a substantial extent by short-term borrowing. With the
initial signs of a recession, monetary institutions in the industrialized
countries became restrictive, credit became more difficult to obtain and
PERTAMINA began experiencing serious financial problems. In the third
quarter of 1974/75, it started withholding part of the corporate oil tax
it had collected on behalf of Government from the foreign oil companies;
by the end of the fiscal year a total of Rp. 346 billion ($830 million) had
been so withheld and used to meet PERTAMINA's financial obligations. Early
in 1975, PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due to some foreign banks, and
the Government stepped in to stem an incipient crisis and took decisive action.
It banned all independent foreign borrowing by PERTAMINA and other public
enterprises and gave Bank Indonesia the sole authority to contract foreign
obligations, instructed Bank Indonesia to provide the funds needed to meet
PERTAMINA's external obligations, undertook a comprehensive review of the
oil company's investment projects and began the process of reducing and re-
planning the company's investment program and of cancelling and renegotiating
1/   Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975.



- 3 -
many of the related procurement contracts. In the course of 1975, the
Government also initiated the reorganization of the oil company, and in
March 1976, replaced its top management.
8.        At about the same time, the recession in the industrialized
countries began to affect petroleum consumption, and oil sales from
Indonesia began to suffer. Non-oil exports, particularly those of timber
and rubber, also began to decline. The volume of oil production (domestic
consumption being relatively small) declined sharply, to less than 1.3
million barrels per day (bpd) compared to 1.45 million bpd in the first
six months of 1974. In the 1974/75 fiscal year, there was a shortfall of
about $200 million in net oil exports from the levels projected early in the
year, and non-oil exports failed to increase at all.
9.         These two factors combined to create considerable financial dif-
ficulties for the Government of Indonesia. The foreign exchange reserves
gained in the first half of the year were lost in the second; by March 31,
1975 these reserves had declined to the level of a year earlier (i.e. $920
million). On the domestic front, the Government, after the promise of a very
large expansion in development expenditures, had once again to revise its
plans, this time downwards. A substantial part of the expenditure authori-
zations for the 1974/75 budget had to be carried over into the next fiscal
year, and some other expenditures, relating mainly to subsidies on fer-
tilizer and rice, had to be financed through Bank Indonesia credit. In spite
of the shortfall in budgetary revenues and the administrative difficulties
involved in the implementation of some projects, total development expend-
itures in 1974/75 amounted to Rp. 770 billion ($1.9 billion), about 60 percent
higher than the level in the previous year (about 20 percent in real terms).
10.       In the first half of 1975/76, Indonesia's foreign exchange re-
serves declined by a further $480 million, despite substantial capital
inflows, which included two syndicated public borrowings (totalling
$575 million) from the international capital market. With continuing
recessionary conditions in Indonesia's principal markets, exports failed
to increase while imports rose again (about 30 percent on an annual basis).
Debt service payments on behalf of PERTAMINA were also very large (about
$1 billion). In the second half of 1975/76, there was no appreciable
change in export earnings, but imports and debt service payments were lower
and there was only a small reduction in capital inflows (two more cash
loans, amounting to $475 million, were raised). The country's foreign
exchange reserve position was therefore relatively stable in this period
and the decline in the reserves for the year as a whole amounted to $360
million.
11.       Public sector investments continued to rise rapidly in 1975/76.
The Government's development expenditures amounted to over $3 billion
(Rp. 1.27 trillion), including foreign project financing totalling $925
million and fertilizer subsidies amounting to $320 million. This is more
than two and one-half times the expenditure in 1973/74; when adjtusted for



- 4 -
price changes it still represents an increase of about 60 percent. A
further increase of 50 percent in development expenditures is budgeted
for 1976/77.
12.       The resources for the Government's own investment plans (excluding
government-owned enterprises) have been so far adequate. However, as stated
above, the Government has had to borrow over $1 billion on commercial terms
and has had to divert substantial additional financial resources to completing
PERTAMINA investment projects which could not be economically reduced further
or abandoned. A considerable share of these investments was also financed
through domestic credit expansion. Despite a substantial decrease in foreign
exchange reserves, overall liquidity increased by over 40 percent, which in
turn contributed to domestic inflation at the rate of 20 percent in 1975/76, a
rate higher than that prevailing in Indonesia's principal trade partners and
competitors.
13.       The recent financial difficulties will affect Indonesia's external
public debt service obligations during the rest of the decade. Debt service
payments over the next several years will be much larger than previously
envisaged as a result of large commercial borrowings in 1975 and 1976 (most
but not all of which related to PERTAMINA's obligations and projects) by
the Government. Debt service in 1976 is now estimated at about $800 million,
which would be about 14 percent of the value of projected exports, with oil ex-
ports on a net basis, i.e. net of foreign costs of production and distribution
and foreign investment income. Debt service payments on all loans contracted
up to December 31, 1975 is likely to reach $1.25 billion by 1978, before
declining as shorter-term maturities are paid off. This excludes obligations
contracted by PERTAMINA on account of oil tankers which are currently being
renegotiated. This enlarged debt service will, in future years, sharply
reduce net resource transfers which were of the order of $500-600 million in
1973 and 1974, and between $1 and $2 billion in 1975 and 1976. To keep the
debt service burden manageable, recourse to medium-term commercial borrowing
in the next few years will, therefore, have to be kept to a minimum, and
certainly much below the 1975 and expected 1976 levels.
14.       Confronted with these problems the Government has taken a series
of important, far-reaching and difficult decisions. It has decided that
foreign borrowing must be cut back sharply from the 1976 projected level
of about $3.4 billion to about $2 billion in each of the years 1977 and 1978
before being allowed to rise again to about $3 billion in 1980. With a view
to keeping the debt service burden manageable, it aims to effect most of the
reduction through a sharp cut in the least concessionary borrowings, especially
in the early years. On these assumptions, the debt service ratio is expected
to reach 18.5 percent in 1980 and 16 percent in 1985.
15.       In view of the expected sharp decline in the net foreign resource
transfers, the Government has also decided to increase domestic revenues
in the next few years much faster than was originally contemplated and to
levels much higher than those likely to result from a mere continuation of
the existing tax policies and procedures. The Government also plans to
reduce selectively the aggregate size of the proposed public sector invest-
ment program. A substantial part of this reduction has already been achieved



- 5 -
by reductions in, and replanning of, the scope and cost of some PERTAMINA
projects and by deferment or elimination of others. Further such reductions
are planned and renegotiation of the existing contracts is in progress. These
actions are aimed at shifting the balance of the public sector investment
program back towards a greater emphasis on directly improving the income
earning opportunities, productivity and living conditions of the mass of
the population.
16.       While the recent balance of payments and budgetary difficulties
have forced changes in many of the public sector plans, the balance of
payments position in 1976/77 is likely to be much better than in the recent
past and the long-term prospects for Indonesia's development remain good.
Recovery from the recession appears to be underway in most industrialized
countries, commodity prices seem to have bottomed out and oil exports from
Indonesia have been rising in recent months. The Government has succeeded
in negotiating a further increase in its share of the oil income. The rice
stocks are normal and imports are expected to remain at the average level of
recent years (Government estimate is 1.4 million tons) but prices are likely
to be considerably lower. The country has sizeable stocks of fertilizer and
only small amounts are expected to be imported.
17.       The country has a substantial potential for productive invest-
ment, employment and income growth. In agriculture a vigorous pursuit of
on-going programs in irrigation, development of new plant varieties and
technical services, provision of credit and current inputs, etc. promise
to yield high returns. In addition, there are opportunities for the
development of new areas, of food and plantation crops - partly in con-
junction with a growing transmigration program. The industrial potential
is good, both for modern capital intensive natural resource-based activites
and for more labor-intensive, partly export-oriented industries.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       Part I of this Report emphasized Indonesia's plans for and the
need to undertake an investment and development program designed to provide
productive work opportunities (with resultant increased incomes) for its
presently underemployed and growing labor force. Substantial external
financing, the larger part on concessional and semi-concessional terms, as
well as a considerable volume of technical assistance, is also required.
The Bank is planning to maintain its lending to Indonesia at present levels
and, in particular, to support projects designed to: improve agricultural
credit, research and extension; rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems;
increase productivity by improving nutritional levels; assist transmigration
and other land development in the Outer Islands; increase non-agricultural
employment in the rural areas and small towns, through the establishment of
small-scale industries; rehabilitate and expand urgently needed transport-
ation and other infrastructure; assist urban development and the national
family planning program.



- 6 -
19.       As of May 31, 1976, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits total-
ling $561.8 million and fifteen Bank loans amounting to $842 million. At
that date, IFC investments totalled $58.4 million. At the end of 1974
the Bank accounted for about 4 percent of Indonesia's total (disbursed)
outstanding public debt; by 1978 it is expected to account for 12 percent
of total outstanding debt and 5 percent of public debt service obligations.
The Bank has in the past financed some of the local costs of projects in
Indonesia. A limited amount of such financing will continue to be neces-
sary in connection with Bank assistance to the agriculture and social
sectors, where projects frequently have a low foreign exchange component.
A summary statement of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of April
30, 1976, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are contained
in Annex II. This is the tenth loan proposed for Indonesia this year and,
if approved,would bring total IBRD commitments since June 30, 1975 to $547
million.
20.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one-third of all Bank/
IDA lending to Indonesia, including four projects for estate rehabilitation,
six for rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation systems, two for fisheries,
and one each for seeds, beef cattle, sugar, agricultural research, food crops
extension and smallholder tea and rubber. In the industrial sector, the Bank
Group has assisted in four projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production
and distribution capacity, three for development finance companies (Govern-
ment-owned and private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of
industrial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial estate. Loans
and credits have also been extended to the transportation, education, tele-
communications, tourism, power, population, urbanization and water supply
sectors; one loan for a national resource survey and mapping project; and
four credits for technical assistance to aid the Government in preparing and
formulating its development programs and projects.
21.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation; almost half of all loans and credits have been
made since mid-1972, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June 1974.
Disbursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels. The
Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the delays in pro-
ject execution caused by cumbersome procedures and the need to establish
an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning
Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank has arranged for assistance
under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up
a monitoring and control system, which it is hoped will lead to better pro-
ject administration.
22.       This would be the twelfth Bank Group assisted project in support
of agricultural development in the Outer Islands of Indonesia. Three of
these projects concentrated mainly on the rehabilitation of government-
owned rubber and oil palm estates in Sumatera and one was designed to test
alternative approaches to the development of smallholder rubber in North
Sumatera. Other Bank assisted projects with major impact on agriculture
development activities in the Outer Islands are a beef cattle development
project in South Sulawesi and Sumba; an agriculture research and extension



project with rubber research facilities located in Sumatera; two projects
for irrigation development in Lampung and South Sulawesi; two projects for
fisheries development in North Sulawesi and Ambon; and a resource survey and
mapping project which, inter alia, would inventorize and evaluate land re-
sources available for agriculture and land settlement in the Outer Islands.
Highway, shipping and education projects have also supported the development
of the rural economy of the Outer Islands.
PART III: TRANSMIGRATION IN INDONESIA
Need for a Transmigration Program
23.       Indonesia has a population according to the most recent estimates
of about 130 million, which is projected to increase by nearly 2.5 percent
per annum through 1986 and at the rate of 2.4 percent thereafter. Popu-
lation distribution in the archipelago has been strongly influenced by soil
fertility. About 75 million, or over 60 percent of Indonesia's population,
live on Java which has less than 7 percent of the total land area; the
resulting density of over 600 per square km is one of the highest among
the world's agricultural countries. About 62 million, or over 83 percent
of the Javanese population, live in rural areas. The population of Java is
expected to increase by 1990 to about 120 million, of whom nearly 90
million will be in the rural areas; and the rural labor force of about 27
million is projected to increase to about 34 million. Even an accelerated
decline in fertility is not expected to affect these projected increases
materially. Two-thirds of the total Indonesian population is employed in
agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy, accounting
for about 40 percent of GDP.
24.       The central problems of the economic development of Indonesia are
an overpopulated Java, scarcity of fertile land and low levels of productivity.
Indonesia has to create productive employment for those now unemployed and
underemployed on Java, and to absorb the rapid expansion of its labor force;
it has to also increase agricultural production, essentially rice, to feed
the increasing Javanese population at adequate levels of nutrition. All land
with agricultural potential on the Inner Islands of Java, Madura and Bali has
been brought under cultivation. Over 40 million, or over two-thirds of the
rural population on Java, operate fragmented, uneconomic holdings; the land-
less and near landless have been roughly estimated at one-third of the rural
labor force. A great majority of the Javanese rural population cannot, there-
fore, support themselves on farm incomes and must rely on off-farm employment,
mainly as laborers. The greater part of the rural labor force is utilized
at an extremely low level of productivity. The problem is not one of out-
right unemployment but of substantial underemployment leading to continuing
and widespread rural poverty, a problem which the Government has pledged to
tackle in the Second Development Plan (1974-79).



25.       Concerted efforts have been made over the First Development Plan
period (1969-74) to increase rice production on Java. These efforts have
importantly included the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation systems,
the introduction of improved varieties and promotion of the use of fertil-
izer, pesticides and disease control measures through the BIMAS program
and subsidization of imported fertilizer under this program,pending the
development of more economic domestic output. These efforts have had con-
siderable success in increasing rice output, and continuation and reinforce-
ment of appropriate policies directed toward intensive smallholder culti-
vation of land in the Inner Islands could yield further, even accelerated,
growth in output in the coming years. However, the adoption of new tech-
nology in rice production and processing, including a measure of selective
mechanization is beginning to have adverse consequences on the already
precarious employment situation in Javanese agriculture, where labor use
in rice production has been historically more than twice that of the Outer
Islands. The employment situation has been worsened further by the in-
creasing commercialization of peasant agriculture and its impact on the
traditional Javanese system of production, which gave every villager the
right to participate in agricultural production and hence in income.
Consequent social changes and new relationships in the villages, have
combined with increasing pressure on agricultural land and limited off-
farm employment opportunities to promote an inflow of people into Java's
larger cities in search of employment and a better livelihood. These trends
indicate clearly that the capacity of agriculture on Java to absorb more
labor is reaching its limits and that the creation of job opportunities
outside agriculture in the Inner Islands and the expansion of agricultural
and other production in the Outer Islands are of major importance to help
resolve what have been described earlier as the central problems of
Indonesia's economic development.
26.       Indonesia has sufficient resources of raw materials and energy
and a large population which provides a potentially good internal market to
help undertake the rapid development of labor-intensive manufacturing in-
dustries. Yet per capita incomes are very low and the bottom 40 percent of
the population are still well below the poverty level. Therefore, the de-
velopment of industries and the concomitant growth of the service sectors is
not likely to create employment opportunities on a scale that would absorb
the substantial increase in the labor force together with the presently under-
employed Javanese rural population. Much of the growth in demand resulting
from Indonesia's development will be for food and other agricultural pro-
duce. Productive income-earning opportunities in agriculture must, therefore,
continue to expand and help achieve self-sufficiency in food,which is one
of the major objectives of the Government, as well as increase agricultural
exports.
27.       There are significant opportunities in the Outer Islands for the
expansion of agricultural production to meet the above-mentioned needs of
a growing population at higher standards of living, for creating employment
opportunities to absorb the increasing labor force and to reduce the pressure
on land in the Inner Islands. The agricultural potential of the Outer Islands,
where land scarcity is less of a problem, could be developed for subsistence



- 9 -
farming of food crops and for tree crops. At present their productivity is
limited by sparse population, lack of infrastructure, relatively poor soils
and the absence of an appropriate food crop technology.
History of Transmigration
28.       The Government recognizes that the effective encouragement and
organization of transmigration -- the organized relocation of people from
the Inner Islands to the Outer Islands -- is important for the resolution
of the foregoing problems confronting Indonesia's economic development.
The Government views transmigration as a means of providing the landless
and other rural poor of the Inner Islands with land assets which offer the
opportunity over time for productive labor and increasing income. Official
transmigration dates back to 1905, when the Dutch colonial administration
attempted to alleviate population pressure in parts of Java by colonization
of the Outer Islands. Due to a variety of problems detailed later, many
returned to Java; the Government also had to compete with plantation compa-
nies which were recruiting labor for the Outer Islands. The movement gathered
momentum in the 1930's due partly to the severe economic depression and partly
to the better organized recruiting campaigns in Java. The earlier settlements
were generally based on irrigated rice lands and heavy reliance was placed on
already established settlers helping the transmigrants.
29.       Soon after the Second World War, migration out of Java resumed but
reliable data is lacking on officially sponsored relocation in the Outer
Islands. Conditions in the settlement areas of Sumatera had worsened through
poor maintenance of irrigation systems, poor choice of crop, use of inappro-
priate technology and the resulting deterioration in soil fertility. In the
1950s about 227,000 people (56,000 families) were settled under the program.
In 1962 and 1965, 32,000 people from Bali and 53,000 from Java (of whom half
came from Central Java), were moved following natural calamities. However,
due to budgetary constraints and the Government's desire to establish more
successful but also more costly settlements, it is reported that transmigra-
tion was reduced to about 197,000 people (47,000 families) in the 1960's. It
must be noted that historically there has also been a substantial flow of
migrants in the opposite direction, i.e. from the Outer Islands to Java.
30.       The Government desires to step up the transmigration program to
maximize its contribution to the alleviation of the problems of overpopulation
and rural poverty on the Inner Islands. The target for transmigration during
the First Development Plan period (1969-74) was set by the Government at
100,000 families and for the Second Development Plan period (1974-79) at
250,000 families. However, 40,500 families were actually settled during
1969-74 and about 7,000 families during the first year of the Second Plan.
As the land available for transmigration increasingly requires the more dif-
ficult establishment of settlements on uplands or tidal lands, the Government
has come to recognize its limited capability to plan and execute such schemes
as an important constraint to the implementation of a larger transmigration
program commensurate in size with both Indonesia's rural and regional develop-
ment needs. The target for the Second Plan period was reduced in 1975 to
100,000 families and was more recently revised again to about 87,000 families.



- 10 -
It is now estimated by the Government that 8,000 families will be settled in
1975/76, 22,000 in 1976/77 and 25,000 in each of the following years. The
total cost to the Government of the settlement program amounted to $23.5 mil-
lion during 1969-74 and is estimated to cost $324 million during 1974-79.
Problems Confronting Transmigration
31.       Government settlement schemes in the Outer Islands have had
limited success in providing migrant families with improved incomes. In
Kalimantan, development is hindered by poor access and rather infertile
soils; in Sumatera and Sulawesi most fertile uplands (as distinct from swamp
or tidal lands) suitable for irrigated rice production and rain-fed annual
crops have now been occupied. Although farm sizes and cropping plans were
based primarily on wet paddy, between 1950-65 few new irrigation works were
constructed in Sumatera forcing the migrants to practice dry rice (rain-fed)
cultivation. The uplands which remain for transmigrants are mostly covered
by podsolic soils which possess lower levels of inherent fertility, than the
rich, volcanic soils under cultivation in the transmigrants' areas of origin.
Many of these upland areas are or have been under shifting cultivation be-
cause, under traditional technology, they cannot sustain continuous and eco-
nomic annual cropping. These problems have been compounded by the process of
land selection used in the past for transmigration, under which lands of poor
productivity were often identified by the local communities for alienation
to transmigrants. Within the limits of present agricultural knowledge, tree
crops such as rubber and oil palm, requiring substantial capital investment,
offer the main basis for continuous utilization of these soils over large
areas. However, a solution to the technical problems of sustained food-
cropping on low fertility upland soils may well be found to meet the subsis-
tence requirements of settlements based on slow-maturing tree crops, to avoid
settlers' dependence on export crops subject to steep price fluctuations and
to help formulate a transmigration program Indonesia can afford.
32.       The agro-ecological factors described above, together with serious
neglect in providing supporting infrastructure, have combined to reduce farm
output in many existing settlements dependent on field crops to a level which
is inadequate to sustain a farm family. Many existing settlements have
suffered not only from low productivity following soil exhaustion, which
left little cash income, but also from isolation from market and population
centers.
33.       The sociological impact of settling transmigrants on land alienated
to the Government from the communal lands of the indigenous population has
been substantial on both, because the social and economic organization and
cultural pattern in the new environment are different from that of the Java-
nese settlers. The settlers tend to isolate themselves from the community
and maintain their Javanese identity, thereby complicating the integration of
the settlements into the Sumateran community, culture and political framework.
These attitudes tended to create settler enclaves which have found it diffi-
cult to obtain from Local Governments representing the interests of the
indigenous population, equal consideration in the allocation of social



- 11 -
services and physical amenities; this in turn has tended to reduce the
potential contribution of transmigrant settlements to sound and broad based
regional development efforts. However, in funding the local labor-intensive
public works program (INPRES), priority has recently been accorded to trans-
migration districts in recognition of their greater need for improved social
infrastructure.
34.       The enclave nature of the settlements has been accentuated by their
management remaining with the Directorate General for Transmigration (DGT) for
10 to 15 years, instead of reverting to the District Government's (Kabupaten)
control at the end of the minimum five-year period laid down by law. This is
because the settlements have not become viable within that period. The program
preparation, implementation and coordination capacity of DGT needs consider-
able improvement in order to overcome agricultural and social constraints as
well as give the technical support necessary to develop viable settlement
plans and the intra-governmental coordination required to implement each
settlement project successfully. Successful implementation calls for a high
level of technical competence and leadership among project managers to enable
them to deal with the complex problems associated with new settlements.
Efficient development of the land now available for settlement requires a
determination on the part of the Government to improve levels of social,
physical and on-farm infrastructure relative to past standards.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Project Formulation - General Considerations:
35.       The project, which consists of the establishment of a new 4,500
family settlement, upgrading of an existing 12,000 family settlement and
technical support for design and implementation of future programs, has been
formulated to test possible solutions to the problems and constraints out-
lined in Part III. Care has been taken to design the project to test for
replicability on a larger program scale. Partly for this purpose, project
design and implementation rely substantially on existing Government agencies
and services. It has been recognized that planning, coordination and imple-
mentation of settlement schemes require a capacity not presently available in
DGT. The proposed project would therefore test the feasibility of DGT using
a number of specialized contractors, which are other Government agencies,
semi-autonomous organizations, domestic or foreign enterprises, and consult-
ants, for planning and implementing phases of the settlement program. Efforts
to strengthen and improve DGT would focus primarily on establishing the
management capability for selecting, directing and coordinating the planning
and implementation process.
36.       New Settlement:   The objective of minimum investment cost requires
that new settlement design rely on community self-help (gotong-royong) for
physical infrastructure and for social services. A sense of community would
be deliberately fostered and market development encouraged by using a village
design based on the traditional cluster of 20-25 houses (dukuh) allowing each
settler family to live on or close to his land cultivated with food crops,



- 12 -
and have a separate rubber allotment within about 1.5 km of the dukuh. Simi-
larly, a community-based health care delivery system has been designed for
the project area to encourage maximum settler participation through the
development of village health committees, which would serve as a test for
low-cost rural health systems elsewhere in the country.
37.       Initial on-farm investments by the Government have been limited
to the minimum levels required to assist the settlers in the early years.
However, the size of the land grant and the agricultural supporting services
to be provided will ensure that the settler, through his own investments
and effort, can improve and enlarge his income earning base. Accordingly,
the proposed land grant, farm plan, agricultural support services and the
level of grant aid provided to each settler family for farm establishment
were determined by several important considerations: (a) the land grant
should afford the settler family the opportunity for self-sustained growth
of per capita income roughly in line with the projected growth of Indonesia's
agricultural sector; (b) following the Government's decision that the invest-
ment cost should not be recovered from transmigrants, the grant aid provided
to the settler should be minimized, by reliance on appropriate term lending
and support services programs for subsequent on-farm development; (c) the
settlement project as a whole should be economically viable and the economic
rate of return should be not less than 10 percent; and (d) the farm unit
should be viable even if the expectation that food cropping can contribute
one-fourth to one-third of family income should prove too optimistic.
38.       Based on these considerations, the new settlement at Baturaja would
provide each settler family a land grant of 5 ha, out of which an allotment
of 1 ha of block-planted rubber will provide regular income and employment.
Each family will have sufficient land to grow food crops and the option to
convert food crop land to tree crops using credit at a later date. In addition
to the establishment of a small, intensively cultivated house garden (0.2 ha),
the basic farm plan envisages the necessity for each family to practice annual
food cropping through an input-intensive adaptation of the traditional rotation
system on low fertility soils, annually utilizing about 0.5 ha of land in a
total area of 2 to 3 ha. Cattle would have to be introduced into this rota-
tion farming system to provide draft power and to improve soil fertility of
the garden plot. The annually fallow 1.5 - 2.5 ha would be planted to a
legume fodder crop to produce cattle feed and improve soil fertility.
39.       The participation of the settler in the development of his farmstead
would be enlisted and protected by issue of a certificate of exploitation (Hak
Pakai) within three months of settlement to the house lot and within one year
to the farm land, followed by full ownership (Hak Milik) within five years to
the house lot and farm land and full ownership within six years to the rubber
land. Assurances to this effect have been obtained from the Government (Sec-
tion 3.12 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). PNP X, 1/ a specialist organi-
zation in rubber development, would contract with DGT to clear the land, plant,
1/   A Government-owned rubber and oil palm estate group operating in South
Sumatra and Lampung Provinces and assisted by Credit 319-IND (Fourth
Agricultural Estates Project).



- 13 -
fertilize and maintain the rubber plantations during the crucial first six
years of development, supervise and train the settlers in all aspects of
rubber planting, management and exploitation and also create employment for
them during the development period. It is expected that depending upon the
productivity of the food cropping system, settlers may move towards the loan-
financed establishment of additional tree crops as the block-planted rubber
comes into tapping and improves their creditworthiness. Food cropping in the
new settler allotments would be assisted by the usual Government agricultural
support services in rural areas including agricultural credit and extension
(BIMAS program), agricultural cooperatives (BUUD's/ KUD's), product processing
and marketing, supplemented in the initial years by DGT because of the crucial
importance of these services for settler welfare and the long-term viability
of the scheme. Assurances were obtained from the Government that village units
of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) would be established by July 1, 1977 to extend
the BIMAS program to the settlement area and that by the sixth year agricultural
cooperatives would take over the supply of fertilizer and other agricultural
inputs and rubber development and marketing functions from PNP X (Sections
3.08 and 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government has also undertaken
to carry out a study of long-term credit arrangements for adoption in transmigr-
ation areas and to review with the Bank the results of the study and a related
implementation program (Section 3.13 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       Existing Settlements:   Past settlements including Way Abung in
Lampung Province were generally established on 2 ha plots following a general
farm model based on irrigation development. Due to lack of Government funds
or the physical infeasibility of some sites, sizeable settlement areas had
remained as dry land farms and became economically depressed as soil fertility
declined drastically. The original investment in roads has deteriorated and
often the level of social services, especially schools and health facilities,
do not meet provincial standards. Upgrading these existing settlements, of
which there may be as much as 100,000 ha, is feasible and could include mea-
sures to: (i) upgrade existing physical infrastructure especially with a view
to effecting marketing improvements; (ii) upgrade and expand social services
to meet provincial standards; (iii) study the feasibility of and build the
necessary irrigation facilities; and (iv) introduce a cropping system suitable
to the soils. DGT would place major emphasis on the last mentioned aspect.
Depending upon the outcome of surveys to be carried out under the project,
the Government may also consider the allocation of additional land to the Way
Abung settlers.
Project Description
41.       The Bank would assist the transmigration program in Indonesia through
a project consisting of:
I.   Implementation of two test schemes:
(a) New settlement at Baturaja (an area of 60,000 ha bordering
the trans-Sumatera highway in Sumatera Selatan Province,
typical of the under-utilized land being made available
for transmigration, with soils of marginal to poor fertility):



- 14 -
(i) Construction of ten village units to accomodate about
4,500 settler houses (each costing about $500), with
provision of water supply and sanitation facilities,
and equipping and staffing health and school facilities
in each village. The village centers would include a
primary school, health post, mosque, community center,
market, civil and project administration and staff
housing; and the health system would include provision
for primary medical care, malaria control and immuniza-
tion, environmental sanitation, nutrition and family
planning programs;
(ii) construction of about 15 km of all weather roads, about
110 km of village roads and about 280 km of farm tracks
to establish a low-cost feeder road system in the settle-
ment areas;
(iii) block planting 4,500 ha of rubber and maintenance for
up to six-years;
(iv) distribution of about 4,500 head of cattle (one per settler
family); the project would support the procurement, trans-
portation and distribution of cattle from Java or from
abroad to the project area and the establishment and operation
of cattle holding grounds in the settlement area;
(v) the distribution of fertilizer inputs and seeds to support
food crop production on about 2,250 ha and establishment
and staffing of agricultural credit, extension and coopera-
tive services. A 200 ha seed production farm and nursery
would serve as a source of seed and planting material and
act as a demonstration area for agricultural extension and
rubber tapping; and
(vi) the distribution of food and other essential commodities
to all settlers during the first year of settlement in
accordance with DGT's existing distribution program.
(b)  Settlement Upgrading at Way Abung:   A 30,000 ha area on the trans-
Sumatera highway in Lampung Province, where about 12,000 families
have been settled on 2 ha plots, with soils of the same low fer-
tility, would be upgraded. Way Abung which has been settled in
stages over the last eight years was planned as an irrigated
farming area. However, only limited development of irrigation
has taken place and the feasibility of large-scale irrigation
in this settlement area is questionable. Its roads are impassable
in the wet season, some physical facilities and on average half the



- 15 -
settler holdings have not been developed; and crop yields remain
low because fertilizer application has not been guided by extension
advice. The upgrading includes:
(i)  Construction of four secondary schools, health facilities
and staff for 22 villages;
(ii) construction of about 50 km of all-weather roads and 50
km of village roads, with upgrading of a further 50 km
of roads;
(iii) block planting about 2,500 ha of rubber with at least six
years of maintenance to benefit 5,000 settlers with up-
land holdings clearly unsuited for irrigation develop-
ment; the rubber and mixed farming system developed for
Baturaja will be introduced with the distribution of an
additional 5,000 head of cattle to settler families,
which had not been benefitted previously from the DGT
cattle program;
(iv) expansion of existing agricultural credit and extension
services and reorganizing cooperative facilities in 20
villages;
(v)  surveys of potential irrigation areas, and if required,
feasibility studies and preparation of detailed engineer-
ing plans for irrigation systems.
II. Settlement Area Studies
(a)  Monitoring and Evaluation Studies would be carried out to
measure the socio-economic and agricultural development of
Baturaja and Way Abung settlement areas and to identify project
plans conducive to enlisting the participation of the settlers
in the establishment of viable farming communities. The results,
properly evaluated, would be used to modify planning of future
settlements. Studies on settlements and on health services will
be undertaken by appropriate local agencies.
(b)  Social and Regional Studies would be undertaken to determine
the impact of transmigration schemes generally on regional
development in the settlement area and on rural develoment
in areas of settler origin, upon adjacent micro-urban centers
and the indigenous farming community and to focus on settler
links with their areas of origin.
III. Program Support
(a) Expansion of DGT's Planning Capability through technical
assistance for identification, survey and initial preparation
of 200,000 ha for future settlements by provision of aerial



- 16 -
photography, soil and topographical surveys, land capability
appraisal and site planning.
(b) Research and Testing of food cropping patterns for podsolic
soils will be undertaken, and
(c) Holding Areas for Cattle will be established and operated in
strategic locations to serve a distribution program for future
settlement areas.
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The project would be fully implemented over a ten year period at a
total project cost of $70 million. The Bank loan would assist with the fi-
nancing over a five-year period. During this period, project costs are
estimated at about $56 million equivalent, of which $30 million would be
in foreign exchange. The costs are based on mid-1975 estimates updated to
January 1976 prices. The provision for expected price increases, based on
estimated international and local price increases has been computed at an-
nual inflation rates as follows: (a) for civil works at 14 percent for 1976,
12 percent each year for 1977-79 and 10 percent for 1980; (b) for equipment
and services at 10 percent for 1976, and 8 percent each year for 1977-79
and 7 percent for 1980; and for agrochemicals at 2 percent for 1976 only.
Physical contingencies have been applied at 15 percent for all civil works,
30 percent for village roads and for subsistence grants and 5 percent for
all other costs. In addition, a special physical contingency of $1 million
has been included to meet the costs if settlers are unable to manually clear
foodcrop land and the Government has to intervene with mechanical or chemical
land clearing. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex III.
43.        The proposed Bank loan of $30 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost equivalent to 53 percent of the total cost for the
first five years of project implementation. The local costs of the project
during this period of US$26 million would be met by the Government through
annual budget appropriations. Since the implementation of the test settle-
ment schemes would not be completed until the tenth year, the Government
would also meet the total remaining costs estimated at $14 million through
annual appropriations under the budget until the project is completed. The
Government has adopted a consolidated annual budget authorization for this
project to coordinate better the activities of several Government agencies
which are responsible for the implementation of different project activities.
Agreement was reached that modifications in the budget system adopted for
fiscal year 1976-77 will only be introduced in consultation with the Bank
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Retroactive financing in an
amount of up to $1 million is recommended for surveys, vehicles, equipment
and for civil works necessary for the establishment of the first village at
Baturaja for which contracts have been awarded on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding. The proposed loan would have a repayment term of 25 years
with a grace period of six years.



- 17 -
Procurement
44.       Contracts for civil works for roads ($9.2 million) villages and
housing ($6.6 million) and for agricultural support facilities ($0.7 million)
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding among prequalified
contractors in accordance with Government procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Civil works contracts would generally be let on a village by village
basis and work would proceed in stages. Each village would be offered for
tender either as one village or as three parcels - roads ($0.40 million),
settler housing ($0.03 million) and the village center ($0.57 million).
However, some road construction may have to be carried out on force account.
As the cost per village ($1.0 million) is small, foreign contracting firms
are not expected to show any interest although they could participate. There
is expected to be adequate competition, but since most local contractors lack
adequate capital, the Government would continue its present practice of pro-
viding for advances to contractors of up to 20 percent of the contract value
for purchase of equipment and building materials.
45.       Block planting of 7,000 ha of rubber and its maintenance for up
to six years ($10.7 million) would be carried out on the basis of a contract
already negotiated between DGT and PNP X, since it involves the execution
of a specialized, integrated rubber development service and PNP X which has
estate operations in South Sumatra and Lampung Provinces is well placed to
carry out such a contract in a cost effective manner. Signing of a contract
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Fertilizers and chemicals ($1.0 million) as well as vehicles and
equipment ($1.5 million) for rubber development would be procured by PNP X
following international competitive bidding procedures under Bank Group Guide-
lines. However, fertilizers and chemicals up to the value of $100,000 may be
procured by PNPX annually on the basis of local competitive bidding.
46.       Other vehicles and equipment ($2.2 million) would also be pro-
cured by international competitive bidding. A preference limited to 15
percent of the c.i.f. price of the imported goods or the customs duty, which-
ever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. Local procurement under contracts of less than $50,000, limited to a
maximum of $300,000 equivalent, would be conducted through prudent shopping
after soliciting at least three quotations.
47.       Cattle ($1.9 million) would be procured locally, mainly in Java
and Madura, under general purchasing guidelines developed by DGT for use by
local purchasing agents, which have been reviewed during negotiations, and
finalization of these arrangements is a condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). If local supply is insufficient to
meet project requirements, DGT would procure imported cattle on the basis of
at least three price quotations from foreign suppliers of suitable livestock.
48.       Consultant services ($4.7 million) would be contracted on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank for project implementation and monitoring
and for program preparation. Internationally recruited consultants have been
estimated at $60,000 per man-year (including housing allowances, inter-
national travel and local transportation costs) on the basis of past



- 18 -
experience in Indonesia. Technical services ($1.7 million) for aerial photo-
graphy would be contracted through BAKOSURTANAL (National Coordinating Agency
for Surveys and Mapping) and for soil surveys through LPT (Soils Research
Institute).
Disbursement
49.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against (a) 50 percent of the
total cost of civil works through certified monthly contractors progress pay-
ments; (b) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported
vehicles and equipment, 95 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manu-
factured equipment, and 65 percent of the cost of imported farm equipment
procured locally, and 40 percent of the cost for vehicles procured locally
after prudent shopping; (c) 100 percent of the delivered cost of agro-
chemicals; (d) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of imported cattle
on the basis of bills of sale and 50 percent of the cost of locally procured
cattle on the basis of certificates of expenditures; (e) 30 percent of the
cost of expenditures for rubber development (other than vehicles, equipment
and agrochemicals) against certified quarterly contractors progress payments;
(f) 100 percent of the cost of foreign and local consultants for consultant
and technical services and (g) at the rate of US$1,000 equivalent per family
settled in a village to reimburse the Government for specific infrastructure
expenditures not otherwise paid for, upon completion of village establishment
and on the basis of certification by DGT. It is expected that disbursements
would be completed within six years of loan effectiveness.
Organization, Management and Project Execution
50.       The organizational framework at the national, provincial and dis-
trict levels within which the transmigration program operates is prescribed
by law. While responsibility for the execution of the program rests with the
Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives and it's Directorate
General for Transmigration (DGT), the Government relies largely on the pro-
vincial and district governments and organizations for detailed program
formulation and implementation. DGT is represented in each province by a
Director for Transmigration who is responsible functionally to DGT but
administratively to the Governor of the province.
51.       In order to strengthen DGT technically and administratively, tech-
nical assistance is being provided for program development under a UNDP-
financed project being executed by FAO. To carry out several planned extern-
ally aided projects, project management units (PMU's) will be set up by DGT
with responsibility for managing, coordinating and implementing them.
52.       Implementation of the proposed project would be the responsibility
of a PMU headed by a project director, appointed in consultation with the Bank
and responsible directly to the DGT, assisted by a qualified consultant firm
in the detailed planning, coordination and implementation of the various
components of the project; the consultant firm will be appointed with the
approval of the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The con-
struction of roads, supply of cattle and all facilities for agricultural
support would be undertaken by the appropriate Government agencies under



- 19 -
Memoranda of Agreement with DGT, the signing of which would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The PMU
would prepare the project's budget annually and be responsible for expenditures;
the task of project coordination would be achieved primarily through budgetary
control. Two site managers would be appointed for Baturaja and Way Abung,
respectively. A project accounting unit would be established in the PMU; and
an internationally recruited accounting advisor,who would be appointed with
the approval of the Bank, would help develop the accounting systems for the
PMU (Section 3.03 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Appointment of the
project director, the two site managers, the head of the accounting unit and
of a qualified consultant firm, would be conditions of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). A low-cost, direct
monitoring system of day-to-day settlement progress, to be operated by the
PMU, would be designed and introduced under the project. Quality and cost
control of the civil works, rubber plantations and livestock procurement
components of the project would be carried out by the PMU (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The rubber plantations on the allotments would be
subject to periodic inspection by consultants employed by the PMU.
Benefits and Justification
53.       The primary objective of the project is to test new approaches to
upland settlement development and upgrading of existing transmigration schemes,
with a view to overcoming the technical constraints imposed by the poor fer-
tility of the lands available for settlement and ensure that such schemes
can be replicated on a scale consistent with the long-term objectives of the
Government?s transmigration program. The methodology of project planning and
implementation adopted for design and agricultural development of these test
settlement areas would be institutionalized in DGT, strengthening the tech-
nical basis for expanding the transmigration program. Research into the
problems of sustained annual cropping on upland soils would contribute to
the technical and economic feasibility of future transmigration programs
while monitoring and evaluation of experimental aspects would help identify
where cost reductions could be achieved or cost effectiveness improved in
the future.
54.       The resources of the Outer Islands of the Indonesian archipelago
are underutilized and the land area under-populated relative to the resource
potential. Organized land development by the transmigrants would serve to
build new and important economic centers of regional development.
55.       Transmigration benefits Java through the organized movement of
people from the poorest and most overpopulated regions and would help reduce
the pressure on land and relieve underemployment. For maximum impact of
transmigration on such critical regions investments should also be made which
would create non-agricultural employment in Java. The Government views an
enlarged transmigration program as an important part of its overall strategy
to overcome the critical problems of overpopulation and unemployment on the
Inner Islands (paragraph 28).



- 20 -
56.       Net income obtained from food crops, 1 ha of rubber and off-farm
employment by a new settler at Baturaja shows a relatively rapid increase
from $492 in year 2 to $861 in year 10 and a more gradual increase to $1014
by year 15 levelling off at $1150. An additional ha of rubber planted by the
settler under long-term credit or using his own resources would give the
farmer an additional income, which would assist in bridging the replanting
period. In contrast, the rehabilitation of existing settlements at Way Abung
will improve prevailing farm incomes from $400 to reach a net annual income
of $970 at full development (years 14-29) reflecting the inadequacy of a total
farm size of 2 ha to yield a satisfactory income, given the soils available
in the area. While there would be no direct cost recovery from the settlers,
the Government would receive revenues from land taxes (IPEDA) paid by them,
and from the Rubber Export Tax. At full development in years 1985-1995 this
tax would amount to $240 per year and $60 per year per settler family in
Baturaja and Way Abung, respectively.
57.       The economic rate of return is estimated at between 11 and 12 per-
cent for the new settlement at Baturaja at a settlement cost per family of
$5,000 and a total investment cost of $22.5 million. This return is moderate-
ly sensitive to changes in infrastructure cost and the level of the rubber
price and would range from 9 to 14 percent on alternative assumptions regard-
ing these variables. The economic rate of return for upgrading the settlement
at Way Abung at a cost per family of $1,520 and a total investment cost of
$7.6 million is about 19 percent; this rate of return reflects the advantage
to existing settlement upgrading of sunk investment in on-farm and physical
infrastructure. The sensitivity range is between 16 and 25 percent. The
weighted average rate of return for these two components of the project would
be about 13.5 percent.
58.       These rates of return do not take account of the non-quantified
benefits which include improved health and nutrition of the settlers and the
multiplier effects on the regional economy of capital formation in the area
and increased levels of consumption expenditure. It has not been possible
to estimate the Government expenditures which would have to be made to
maintain and improve standards of rural welfare in the area of settler
origin in the absence of resettlement or the benefits which accrue in the
area of origin due to the alleviation of population pressure on scarce
resources including land.
59.       At Baturaja, 1.5 permanent jobs would be created per smallholding,
increasing to 2.5 through further, loan-financed, on-farm development.
Approximately one additional job per family would be created by the pro-
posed improvements to existing smallholdings at Way Abung.
60.       The project would benefit the economy of Indonesia directly in
terms of employment creation, increased food production and rubber exports
and potential benefits to the areas of settler origin in Java. It would
also add to the infrastructure base for the regional development of South
Sumatera. Monitoring and evaluation of the test projects would have the
benefit of identifying aspects in the design where future cost reductions
could be obtained or cost effectiveness increased. The institution build-
ing aspects of the project and the closely monitored testing of settlement



- 21 -
designs and agricultural systems would have long-run benefits in ensuring a
sounder base for future transmigration programs. Project benefits would
accrue to transmigrants whose present and expected future incomes in the
areas of origin would be clearly below the relative, if not absolute poverty
line. The distributional impact of the project is therefore clearly
favorable.
61.       Risks.   It is recognized that several technical, organizational
and budgetary approaches to be employed in this project are of necessity
innovative and therefore untested. In particular, the farm plans to be
implemented in the new settlement at Baturaja hold the risk that the
yields attained in annual rainfed cropping may turn out to be, on average,
lower than projected due to the as yet unknown interaction between the
proposed farming system, soil characteristics, climate and farming skills.
Similarly, the rubber yields attainable under smallholder management might
turn out to be lower than projected if the smallholders do not follow the
prescribed fertilizer regime and yield to the temptation of overtapping
in order to supplement their near-term incomes. Protracted analysis of
alternative formulations of pilot settlement projects in Indonesia leads
to the conclusion that there are clearly numerous ways to balance consider-
ations of settler welfare, economic feasibility, and replicability. A greater
initial investment for the establishment of a larger tree-cropping area, would
have provided a greater margin of safety in settler welfare and economic
feasibility, but would not have been as compatible with Indonesia's overall
resource constraints and with the future replicability of this test scheme on
the scale which the Government considers desirable for its transmigration
program. The attendant risks of the proposed test scheme have been carefully
analyzed and discussed with the Government and it has been concluded that
timely provision of extension and other agricultural support services will be
able to reduce these risks. Most importantly, however, the Government's de-
cision to proceed with a test scheme which at this stage poses, of necessity,
risks to the participating settlers is matched by a commitment to take, if it
should be required timely ameliorative action (Section 3.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement). On the Bank's side, the decision to participate in the
financing of these test schemes will in turn be matched by a commitment to
provide for intensive supervision of this project.
62.       The Government also recognizes that the realization of benefits
from the project depend on several important conditions for project success
being met, among which are maximum cooperation being achieved between the
PMU, other departments of DGT and the Government agencies responsible for
project implementation; the active involvement of organizations at the
national, provincial and district levels in planning and monitoring the pro-
ject; the continued use of a consolidated budget controlled by the PMU; early
implementation of the project monitoring arrangements and establishment or
improvement in Baturaja and Way Abung, respectively, of the extension services
and BIMAS program organization; the earliest possible formulation and imple-
mentation of a term lending program for smallholder tree-crop development; and
the earliest establishment of the health services with particular emphasis on



- 22 -
the malaria control program. With the assurances obtained from the Government
as set out in the foregoing report, the arrangements proposed for project
implementation are appropriate for the achievement of these objectives.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the
text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.        Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 39, 43, 45, 47, and 52 of this report. Special conditions
of effectiveness are: (i) the appointment of a project director, a site
manager of each of the Baturaja and Way Abung settlement areas and a head
of the accounting unit of the PMU; (ii) the appointment of a firm of con-
sultants to assist in detailed planning and implementation and (iii) the
conclusion of agreements/arrangements with PNPX and the other Government
agencies having responsibility for implemention of the project (Section 6.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
page I ot 4 pages
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA       *SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 59411?
LAND AREA (TH4OU KMZ)                    ......OUN.....RIES................
...........-                                      INDONESI A                             REFERENCE CUTISC90
TOTAL       190a.3                                           MOST RECENTIN                              A             rLP    NE
AGRIC.       279.8                         1Q60        1970    ESTIMATE            BANGLADESH        NI              HLPIE 
GNP PER CAPITA (US')                           60.0        100.0       110.0                 80.0        110.0        220.0
POPULATION AND vITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)                 9S.0       115.6        1291.0                70.8        Sis.
POPULATION DENSITY                                                    6.                   9.           6.           2.
PER SOIIARE KM.                           50.0         bI.0         6.                   9.           6.           2.
PER 50. KM. AGRICULTUIRAL LAND               ...                    26.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE   IOTYH RATE PER T4OUSAND           b30          02.0         02.0                 00.0         38.0        015.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER TMOUSA0ND            21.0         21 .0        21 .0                2i.0         16.0         i2.0
JNFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOlU)           125.0 L=.                                     140.0        1 30 .0       81.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY At 8TRTH (VMS)            08.0         47.0         51.0                 08.0         50.0         86.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.8          1.2          3.1                  3.1          2.9          1.1
POPULATION GPROWTH4 RATE (SI
TOlTAL                                     e.1          2.0          2.0                  2.7          2. 3         3*0
URBAN                                         *         3.6          3.2                   4* 0n                    0.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)                15.0         1 7 .1      18.0                    .         20 .0        3 2. 0
AGE 9TRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                            02?.1        40.1         49.1                   *.         0,0         03.1
tS TO 60 YEARS                            5S.0         8 3.0        53,0                   ..          s 55,        3. 4
68 YEARS AND OVER                          2.5          2.53         2.S                               3.0          1.8
AGE DIEPENDENCY RATIO                         0.8         0.9          0.9                    ..          .8          0.q
ECONOMIC D)EPFNnENCY RATIO                    1.3           .          1.8                    .          1.2 Is        .8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMuLATIVE, THUII)                .        25q.3       0808.2                   .       11308.0       3504. 0
USFRS (1 (IF MARRIED .,nMEN)                K....                                          .. 
EMPLOrYMENT
TITAL LARnR FORCE ITMOUSANO)             30600.0            .       0100.0              22100.0    221000.0 /b t?300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURPE (14)             68 .0          .         62.0                 71. 0        71I. 0        I1. 0
JNFMPLOlYFF  (% OF LABOR PFnRCE)              5.4         2.0 /a       S.4 /a                            3.0          7 . 0
INCOME nISYRTHUTIOIN
I OIF PRIVATh INCOME REC'n1 By..
HIGHEST   H1O      OUSEHOLDS                                                             I ...  6.7  a 28.0 Ld
41GHEST 20% OF MOUSEAnLOS                    ...                      .                   2.3 Z.      53:1. /
LOMEST   201 LIP HOUSEHOLDS                                                               1 .  .  .9 ao  0.7  d
LOWEST   400 (IF HOUSEHOLDS                  .             .*                            19 .6 Za     1 31.~
DISTRIRUTInN OF LAND *OWNERSMYP
t OWNED MY TOP t01 OF nWNERS                08./b                                          34 .  1.0 
1 IWNEFI BY SMALLEST 101 OwNEPS               3.:0 79      I. ..0 7e
MEALYM AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 aI010 00.0   2768 0.0     23880 .0              7600.0 /b    9800.0
DOPI)LATInN PER NURSING PERSON                 ..      810.0        6960. 0             720130. 0 l    I  00
DOPI1LATIOIN PER MOSPITAL RED             1350.0       1 720.0      l050.0               8120. 0      i,1620.0      880.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (0 OF REgUIBE'4ENTS)             89.0         89.0         83. 0                  .     ~    93.n         85.0
PROTEIN (GR4MS PER DAY)                   0 3.0        a 3.0        38. 0                  .          8.0n         05,0
-OF WMICH ANIMAL ANn PtILSE             1 5.0 /c     194.0          .                     .         1 6. 0      22.0
DEATH RATE   W/HOIM   AGES (-0                  ..                       .                    ..                      7.0
EDOJCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RAtIO
PRIMARY SCHO)OL                           59.0        C)9.0         64A.0                50.0  /d     68.0        100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           6.0         12. 0        12.0                 15.0  /d     28.0         hO8.O
YEARS OF SCHnDLING POOVIDEn
(FIRST AND SECOND LEYEL)                  12.0         12.0         12.0                 13.0         12.0         10.0
VflCATIONAL ENROLL4E4Y
(1 OF SECONDARY)                          210 olL      29.0         28010                              6.0         I 10.0 Lab
AUTLITERACY RATE (3)                     070..                     6.   /b
.';;;;NS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                     ...                       .b                   *
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER    W1                            .                       4 0.0 /c              .                       66.0 /b
ACCESS TO ELFCTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                         ..                     60 .0                  ?..                      3.0 /LL
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO) ELECTRICItY (5                           .                      39.0                   .                        6.0 /b
CONSUMPTION
RAPDI  RECEIVERS (PER TNOU PUP)               7.0       114.0            .                  6.0         21.0         08.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                 1.0         2.0          3.0                   1.0          1.0         8.0
ELECTRICITY (KW4/YR PER CAP)                 19.0        20.0         23.0                  11.0       I11.0        238.0
NEWSPRINT (AG/YR PER CAP)                     0.2         0.2          0.2                    0.         0.1           1.2 /.
SEE NnTES ANO nlFF'NITIONs ON REVERSE



ANNEx i
Page 2 of 4 pages
Uless otherwise noted, data for 19~60 refer to anY Year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee     1968 and 1970, man for Moot Recent istisLe betwee
1971 -d0 1973.
[lie Philippioeo has beo- neleced so on object-e country for Ste geographincl enaooyad hec...se of its apparent advancd Stage of
ec.,o.oic developsen t
INDONESIA      1960     /.  Excludes West [rion;    /b  1963;   /, 1961-63.
1970 L. Registered applicants for work.
MOST RECENT ESfIMATEs     /. Ul.e.ployd corkers seeking their first job;     L/b  10 yaro and see, ability to read and writ      is eule-
latin or sos-Iatin characters;    a. Insolde osly .
bAMiGLADEif     i9710   /   1966-67, householcs;    lb  liegloterad, not all practicing to t   ~ country;   .  G-ornosent hospital establ-hb,c-ts
o-ly;   /d Approcisae -relloten     as percentage of population is 6-10, and 11-15 age groups resPectively;     Is 1967-68.
INDIA          19701        H.LRot  of population onder 15 and 60 and ovr to labor force age 15-59 Years;     /b AID estisate of labor force in
age Groap 15-59. 18811 report gives a figure of 180. mdillion based an 1971 popiaatios ce0005. TIhe difference is
d   ti.i changes in the definition of a worker,  is tbe 1971 census, persons wer   claesified osly oc the baois of thei
eons aCLtiviie.    Tbhls Ie  to the  -1-iueon of evral categorie    such as housowive;     In  Regeterod applicants
for sorb;   /d   l967-68;   /e  1967.                                                      _
PFO12 PPI NEI   1970    Is  Piblin cdo.a.iU    osly;  /b 1967;    Ai lsport    only.
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAt I5DICATOIIS
toed Area ltobe  ha 2                                                                  Ppglation par -orioc parson - Popolt-to     divided by soeb- of practi-
Total- Total sorfac    area c-Prisiog bed area aed inlasd water.-                        ciog sale and femle gradsateasreee, "traised" or .ertifiod      sros
Agric. -Most rece..t -sti.ate of agricoltsral are    seed tasporarily or per-            and awsilary perosonel with traioiog or noperie-c.
sasestly for crops,   pasc-rc..cacht & kitchee Macdoss or to lie faIlcs.              Popslation per hospital bed - Popslatioo divded by esober of bospital
bsds avilable to pablic and private gocral asd spe-ialin-d hospital
IiNto nar-ita (US$) - GNP Percapita eStieste    at cachet price..  -1lcslard            and rehabilitation caoters;.. lscidas nusring h-ae   nod e-tblishoesto
_by _eamo cooversbos sethnd as World Bask Atlas (1972-74 boelo).                        for castodia1 and pr-evetive care.
Per capita asoply of clre      (% of -essir-netal - Cospoted f-n
Pocol~inri   aed vital statistics                                                         nergy eqoi-lest of net food oopplies available in country Pcr
L.ecl.tis   ai-colio) - Os of July firat;           if cot avilable, average             capita per day; avaiablo soppli-s cooprise d-vetic prodoct-s,
o,f tw.oned-year as-icae-                                                              ispo-to lose esporto. aed chasgee is stock, set sapplies esclode
s-oa    feed, asede, q-itsice  asod is food pr-o-e lg and lossis
P.gyiati-e de-nlty -ne.ros   r- l.. - Mid-yea   pepslatioe per sqcro kiln-               distribs-ion, roqsireanecs wer    -ictin d by FA0 basd os phyolo-
cecr (188 beccaren) of total area,                                                     logical seeds for -soa    activ-ty and bonIth ocsideriegevr-
Popolotlon de.'eitv - Per sno-r  ba of agric. land - Cnspoted as abov    for             aesta1 tonperostre, body weights, age and sos distrihutions of
ogric-Itura1 1aod sely.                                                                popolation, and allowing 10% for waate at hess.ehold level.
Per capita supply of proteis (goon   per day) - protein -oreet of Per
nit1 -saiacica                                                                           c.pita set supply sf fand per day; ner sopply of fond Is defleed as
Cr te birth rate per those-d - Assual live hirth. Per thei...ad of aid-year              above; reqsirmaeoto for all -ootrios oa tablichod by PMSi Ec--sc
.poplation; osaly fin-year -eragos ending to 1968, 1970 and 1971 for                  Riesearch Seroicea provide for a aiei,s   all .... -o o  60 groa  of
d-vloping cooetriea.                                                                 - total proteis per day, sod 20 grons of aoioal and polse proteis, of
teode doach rate per thsssaed - Aso..al deaths por thosaced ef mid-ysar                  whieh 10) orasa ahod be sei,ea   procis; thes    ac-dards are lowr
pspslation. noally fiv-ye -ravrages eodieg is 19h0, 1970 aed 1975 for                  tbas thosa of 75 gras   of total proteie aed 23 grass of a.!..l
dro.elopiegcsri.                                                                       prorein as an averge for the world, pr-p-ad by FAO is the Third
Inofot o_reaIIty rate ithoul - ieal .  deatha of snfasta under one yea   of age          World Food S-rey.
per th.sssad lIve births.                                                            Per_SgRtit proteie suctoly froen aefol and p,Is  - Protois -pply of feed
Life e-pct-yc at birth lyr)-      Average soaber of yeara of life reoaieieg              derived fr    n aioeals aod po1ee. In gEta  per dsp.
st birth, ossolly fiv-year asrages cending in 1960, 1970 aed 1975 for                Death rate f/chow) acea 1-4 - Annial deotha per tbos,saod  g008   group
doe'lopiagoc--rri-a                                                                    1-4a years, ts childess le this age group; soggested as as    fed  -re
froso ep-rod-otio   rate - A-rge n-beer of live daughters a wasan will bear              of mal-tritier.
is_her  ,-,Ia reprodooti- period if ahe espericeec     preseot ag-specIfi
fertility rates     _ ossaly fiv-year averges ending to 1960, 1970 aod 1975          Educatimn
for develping c-ntrico.                                                              Adjus ted onrolloocet ratio - priaary school - tEnro11ect of all ages as
fopolatico growth rare 1)- coral      Caspound onossa groth rates of aid-yea             perceorage of priaary schanl-age populatiJo; inclodoc   bhildr- aged
popolation for 1990-60, 1960-70, and 1960 to east reeo y. ear.                         6-11 years het adjusted for diffe-st leogthn of prlnary edcc..tioa,
Population growth, rata (%) - urban - C-rptrad like growth rate of total                 Mor coustries with osive-sl edscation, -srolsee rmay eareed (Aol.
popolation , dif forest definitiono of urban aresa oay affect cmop-rbility             'ic    ae   Puils are below .or albovethe offic.ial shool age.,
of data oaon    -nsorles.                                                            idlsted erllanst rai-eodrGcol-Ccse                        as aer
Urban esoulati on (% of coral) - Raltso of urbas to total popsl.iaro; diffe-             secondary edacor ion reqsireo at tle.ar f-c year   of approved prisory
rest dofinitions of crbn areas may affect cnsp-rbiliry, of data anong                  Insotruction; provides ges..ro1, voctional or teaoher I ratnieg
-tssriee.                                                                              iostrucrtions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; cr-reapondee-
Ago arrocror  (perce..r) - Childres (0-14 yeas), workiog-age (15-664 years),             courses are generaly e-Ildad.
asd retired (65 ye-arsnd ove) os pereentagaa of old-year population.                Years of schooliog pr-vided Ifirst and s...ood 1-vel) - Total yoorsf
Age dependeecy ratio - MRtio of population endr 11 and 61 and over to these              schoolig; at secondary loyl, voca.tiona1 iest-utis anY be pa-
of ages 11 r hregh 64.                                                                 tially at capletely -elded.
toonosic depeod,ecy ratrio - Ra tio of population soder 15 asd 65 and ove   to         V.stiooal esr1lo-to (% of -eondary) - Voca.tiona      inaLt.roiono
the labor force Is age group of 11-64 years.                                           lnclude teelmical, Iodusntrial or other progras   which sp-rat  Iede-
Facily PIl...ing -aooeptore (c-mslaivm. thos) - C-nslative osober of                     peedeotly or aso departsoesta of secondary iostirstioeo
acceptors of b irth-cntrol deviceas under asopiieas of national family plan-         Adult literacy rate (%) - titerate adults (able to read and write) as
sieg progron sinse tonepris.                                                           percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
fail pan ig -   ers 1     yofaaried w ene) - Porcentagee of married
wane sf ch Ild-boarieg(age (1   4year)who use birth-control devices to               Housing
all sarried wanos in soo    ge group.                                                Per-no par ron(vrg)          -Avrage enber of persons per roa     is
secspied convestiona1 dwellings in s-ob    aras   dweIllngs eciude
Eaploje,et                                                                              Gonpessnetu;truclures sodeunorspied ports.
Total labor force (thocosod) -    oE-aisally active persons, ineladieg areed           OspedelIfg         wihast pleed water IZI - Occpied conventional
forcesae.,dson-pI=yed ht earloding housewIve, stodets, etc.; defioi-                   dselosi.rban asd rural areas without inside or sotoide piped
sin   ivaious catias are sot coparable.                                                water facIlities as per-torge of all ancopied dwelliegs.
L.abor forca to a~icultsro 1%) - Agric-ltor..l labor force(t    farsing.               A.ees to electricity (% of all duellisgs) - Convetiona1 dwellings
fo..entry, hostig aod fishing) as perceoraga of total labor ferns,                     With 1eletrIcit7y Is living quaters as perceot of total dwellinga
llreapl yed    ,j  aorfrof - Uleeplsyed are usually defised os pers...                   is urban and rural area..
who aro ableadwilling ts tab a. .Job,uOtof a job on a gEl_         day,              Mural duelliss conoected to .1-ercrgit,          Canputed as above for
re-ined oc t of a Job, and seeking work for a specified eislono, period                rural dwellings only.
sot esceediog one week; may sot be caparable het-een countries doe to
different defisiri-e of    enmployed and source of data, e.g., esployment            Con-v tapios
office. statistIc,  saple sorveya, conpulsoy seeplymeot in-sr-ce.                    Madis rereioers (pee  thoa poo) - Al1 types of reeicers for radio
brandcasts to general public per thesasnd of pspalation; eaclsdea
I-cn   dietrihution    Perosotage of private I-cn    (bstb Is cash aod kied)             uslis ensed receivers in couotriea and is years when registration of
rer-ived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorear 20%, and poorest 40% of                   radio sets was gn effect, data Msr rece..t years any mat be canpar-
bosebolds.                                                                             able sim   nea..t -satries abolished licenatng.
P.seorCars (pe,r thou pep) - Passo.nger care canprise motor cars
Distchoron o  las ewnrab P -Penetrges af laod ,soed by ...althiect              seatiog less rha   eight person    eeclsdes aabsl--es    hearse  sod
10% and pooroor 10% of lasd owers.                                                     military v-hicles.
El-ctricite (kwh/cr per cap) - AnnualI cossanptios of indantria. can
Health and Nurrition                                                                     ecroil   public and private o1eeroicity in kilowtt hours per
Psoalation eruphyagcias - Popolation divided by swober of practicing                     capita, gEmeraIy based on production data, without oll1-nce for
physiciso, qslifiled fran a mdical school at osiversity level,.. lses to grid. hut allowing for imports aod esporta of electricity.
Neusrint (kR/er par cap) - Per ca pita annual consanption in kilogram
estimated foes d-.etic production plus set imports of .ewprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of L pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1960 -65          1965 -70           1974
GNP at Market Prices           22479       100.0                        1.9                4.9              5.6
Gross Domestic Investment       4330        19.3                         3.3              11.5            19.2
Gross National Saving          4251         18.9                         5.8               5.1            64.8
Current Account Balance      -    79         0.4
Exports of Goods, NFS(net oil) 4351         19.)h                        1.5               7.8             0.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           4220        18.8                         0.2              10.9            33.?
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                   Labor Force2/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %                  Mln.       %                   US 
Agriculture                    4221       44.8                30.5      69.0                   138         65
Industry                       1915       20.3                 3.0        6.8                  638        300
Services                       3279       34.9                 8.3      18.8                   395        185
Unallocated                               3                    2.4        5.4 
Total/Avertage          .                              2           ..
Total/Average0.0                 W         .0.o                             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(RF Bln.)              % of GDP
l!75/76*    1974/75         1974     1973
Current Receipts                     2166         1759          17.9     15.0
Current Expenditure                  1296        1001           10.2     10.8
Current Surplus                                                  7.7      4.2
Capital Expenditures                 1273         966            9.8      7.3
External Assistance (net)             403          234           2.4      3.2
*Provisional estimates
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1970         1971        1972         1973        1974        1975
(Bioii n  Rp.   outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                     330           469         695         987         1452        1995
Bank credit to Public Sector               57           78           16          27        - 36           44
Bank Credit to Private Sector             306          442          587         928        1364         2619
and State Enterprises
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           9.9          12.8        15.2        14.6         14.8
General Price Index (Sept. 1966=100)      612           638         680         891         1253        1492
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        12.3           4.2         6.6        31.0         40.6        19.1
Bank credit to Public Sector             -  5.0          36.8      - 79.5        68.8
Bank credit to Private Sector              77.9           .4         32.8        58.1        47.O         92.0
and State Enterprises
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp. 390 = US$1,
2/Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "UnallocatedIt consists
mainly of unerployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973      1974     1975*                                                 US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $)
Exp obrt5                       2173     4351      4778                    Oil (net)                      1896      5114
Oil (net)                     564      2169      2957                    Rubber                          41       11.0
Non oil                      1609      2182     1821                     Timber                          602      16.0
Imports                       -2817     -4220     - X74                    PaLm oil                        132       3.5
Resource gap                - 644       131                                                               99 Tin  138  3.7
Factor service:               - 158     -210        508                    Coffee                           99
Interest                    -  46        6       24
Investment income           - 112     -1         284                All other commodities                483     12.8
Balance   on current account - 802      -  79     -1204                     Total                         37T     100Q0
Direct Foreign Investment        290       462       506             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 572       664     2387                                                           US $ Mln
Amortization                -  87     -  80     - 248
Subtotal                      4c      5304      2139                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                7875
Capital Grants                    52        62                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              217     - 126     -2250                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 83     - 214     - 174
Increase in Reserves (+)         325        W      -973               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
Gross Reserves (end year)        806      1473       590
Net Reserves    (end year)        783     1472                          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              9.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Tmports                           4        4        90
of which:   Petroleum           2        1        86
Exports
of which:   Petroleum((net)  564      2169      2957       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (April 30, 1976)(Million US $)
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Throu0~h J..lv 1071              Since  Augtwt 1971               Outstanding & Disbursed               111.8        338.5
ThroUS $ 1 00 h Rp 5                $ 1.00 1. i415 Atan 1971      Undisbursed                           516.1        223.3
us$1. 00 =Us$~                 ss    O   =.oo=uss              Outstanding inc. Undisbursed          62-79T6g
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
4Provisional
.  not available
. not applicable
May 19, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1976)
Loan/                                                    US$ Million
Credit      Fiscal                                Amount (less cancellation)
Number       Year              Purpose            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Two credits closed                                        6.o
127         1969   Irrigation Rehabilitation              5.0       0.0
154         1969   Highway                               28.0       0.2
155         1969   Agricultural Estates                  16.0       0.1
165         1970   E3ectricity Distribution              15.0       0.0
193         1970   PUSRI Fertilizer                      35.0       0.0
194         1970   Second Agricultural Estates           17.0       1.9
195         1970   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation      18.5       1.0
210         1971   Telecommunications Expansion          12.8       0.2
211         1971   Fisheries                              3.5       0.2
219         1971   Education                              4.6       0.4
220         1971   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation       14.5       1.7
246         1971   Seeds                                  7.5       2.4
259         1971   Tea                                   15.0       3.6
260         1971   Second Highway                        34.0       3.4
275         1972   Third Technical Assistance             4.o       0.8
288         1972   Second Education                       6.3       4.o
289         1972   Fourth Irrigation  Rehabilitation     12.5       1.8
300         1972   Population                            13.2       7.9
310         1972   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)   10.0       1.5
318         1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation      8.5       3.8
319         1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates           11.0       6.8
334         1973   Second Electricity Distribution       kO.0      14.5
355         1973   Beef Cattle Development                3.6       2.3
358         1973   North Sumatera Smallholder Development 5.0       2.9
387         1973   Third Education                       13.5      10.7
388         1973   Third Highway                         14.0       6.3
399         1973   West Java Thermal Power               4600      31.1
400         1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea     7.8       7.3
405         1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation         50.0      29.3
428         1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate         16.5      14.3
436         1974   Private Development Finance Co.
(PDFCI)                               10.0       8.2
451         1974   Fourth Technical Assistance            50       4.o
479         1974   Bali Tourism                          16.o      15.2
480         1974   Fisheries Credit                       6.5       6.1
514         1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension        30.0      29.4



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
(Continued)
Loan                                                              US$ Million
Credit      Fiscal                                        Amount (less cancellation)
Number       Year             Purpose                     Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1005        1974   Railway                                 48.o                 45.8
1040        1975   Jakarta Urban Development               25.0                 15.2
1049        1975   Five Cities Water Supply                14.5                 13.2
1054        1975   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II)    50.0                 36.8
1089        1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion            115.0                 38.1
1100        1975   Sixth Irrigation                        65.0                 64.4
1127        1975   Fourth Power                            41.0                 40.8
1139        1976   Fertilizer Distribution                68.0                  60.3
1179        1976   Agricultural Research and Extension     21.5                 21.5
1197        1976   National Resource Survey and Mapping    13.0                 13.0
1236 a/     1976   Fourth Highway                         130.0                130.0
1237 a/     1976   Fourth Education                        37.0                 37.0
Total b/                                     628.0      561.8      739.4
Of which has been repaid                       0          0
Total now outstanding                        628.0      561.8
Amount Sold                       0.1
Of which has been repaid          0.0           0.1
Total now held by Bank and
IDA (Prior to exchange adjustment)            627.9     91A
Total undisbursed                            516.1      223.3      739.4
a/   Not yet effective
b/   The following loans were signed after April 30, 1976:
(i)  Loan No. 1250-IND (Second Shipping Project) of May 20 for $54 million
(ii) Loan No 1254-IND (Third Fertilizer Expansion Project) of May 20 for $70
million
(iii)Loan No. 1259-IND (Fifth Power Project) of May 20 for $90 million
(iv) Loan No. 1268-IND (Seventh Irrigation Project) of June 4 for $33 million
(v) Loan No. 1267-IND (Food Crops Extension Project) of June 4 for $22 million



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMIENTS (as of April 30, 1976)
Fiscal
Year                                                          US$ Million
Loan     Equity      Total
1971      P. T. Semen Cibinong       Cement            10.6        2.5       13.1
1971      P.T. Unitex                Textiles            2.5       o.8        3.3
1971      P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles           2.0        0.5        2.5
1971      P.T. Kabel Indonesia       Cable              2.8        0.4        3.2
1972      P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.               Textiles           L4.5       1.5        6.o
1973      P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism           11.0         -        11.0
1973      P.T. Semen Cibinong        Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974      P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles           2.0        0.3        2.3
1974      P.T. Monsanto Pan
Electronics                Electronics         0.9        -         0.9
1974      P.T. PDFCI                 Devlp. Fin. Co.      -        0.5        0.5
1974      P.T. Kamaltex              Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
19714     P.T. Semen Cibinong        Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
TOTAL             49.1       9.3       58.4
Lesss  sold or
repaid and
cancelled         20.2       1.5        21 .7
TOTAL now held    28.9       7.8       36.7
Undisbursed
nclupnt  g parti-
cipant's portion)  5.4       1.5        6.9



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 127:       Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Effective Date: March 25, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
All civil works were completed on March 31, 1976. Additional
drainage work will be carried out under Loan 1100-IND. The closing date has
been postponed by one year to allow for payment of late accounts.
Cr. No. 154:       Highways:  US$28 Million Credit of June 20, 1969;
Effective Date: October 2, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975.
Rehabilitation work, of acceptable quality, has been
completed. The work accomplished e!xceeded the project's original target.
The program for improved highway maintenance included in the project has
been completed. A project completion report is being prepared for issuance
before June 30, 1976.
Cr. No. 155:       Agricultural Estates:   US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective I)ate: December 10, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
With improvements in management and much higher inter-
national prices, particularly for palm oil, prevailing in 1974, the
financial position of the estate groups has improved. The field and
factory standards have now been raised to a good technical level and
the managements have been advised to concentrate on cost control in order
to prepare for the time when produce prices may become less attractive.
The combined efforts of the management, consultants and IDA missions
to review project implementation are yielding good results. The closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1976 to enable payment to con-
sultants for services for other rubber estates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
Cr. No. 165:      Electricity Distribution:   US$15 million Credit of
October 29, 1969; Effective Date: June 1, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The closing date was postponed to December 31, 1975, to
allow for payment of small amounts outstanding. The project completion re-
port will be prepared in conjunction with that for Credit No. 334.
Cr. No. 193:      PUSRI Fertilizer:   US$35 Million Credit of June 15,
1970 (as amended May 21, 1973); Effective Date:
January 15, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The urea plant has successfully passed its performance
test and is operating at close to 90 percent of rated capacity. The gas
gathering and transmission system is also completed and sufficient gas is
being delivered to the plant. The closing date has been postponed to December
31, 1976 to allow for delivery and installation of remaining equipment.
Cr. No. 194:       Second Agricultural Estates:  US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After initial delays, there have been considerable
improvements in management and these, combined with high prices, particular-
ly for palm oil, have resulted in the two estate groups being put in a
much stronger financial position. On the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort
is necessary to improve agricultural standards and tapping methods. With
the rapid expansion of investment of the palm oil group (PNP VI), there is
a need to employ expertise in financial planning, control and management,
which are now the main constraints to efficient development. This estate
group is undertaking action in this respect. The closing date has been
postponed by one year to allow payment for remaining equipment, civil
works and consultants' contracts.
Cr. No. 195:       Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1976.
Problems of quality and progress of construction still
exist, but the project entity assisted by the consultants are tackling
these vigorously, and the situation is improving, although not sufficiently
to make up for earlier delays. Costs are likely to be double the overall
appraisal estimate, due to inflation, but the Government will provide any
additional funds required and, because of higher rice prices, the project
will continue to have a satisfactory rate of return. Completion of dis-
bursements will be about two years behind the original schedule.
Cr. No. 210:      Telecommunications Expansion:    US$12.8 Million Credit
of July 13, 1970; Effective Date: February 18, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The project has been completed except for the installation
of the telex exchange at Medan, which is now expected to be in service by



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
June 1976. The delay in completion of the Medan telex exchange was due to
late completion of a building to house the exchange. The closing date of
the Credit has been extended up to June 30, 1976, which should be suffi-
cient to allow for payments of outstanding contracts. The audit of finan-
cial statements for FY1973 is expected to be completed in May 1976 and
efforts are being made to ensure timely audit in future.
Cr. No. 211:       Fisheries:  US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13, 1970;
Effective Date: January 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
The project is about two years behind the original schedule due
to delays in engaging consultants and in executing contracts for the shore
facilities. There has been a substantial project cost increase but the
project is still expected to be financially viable due to the greatly
increased skipjack prices. Government has recently appointed new project
management. The first stage of operation of project facilities is expected
to start shortly.
Cr. No. 219:       Education:  US$4.6 Million Credit of November 6, 1970;
Effective Date: January 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Project implementation in the Department of Education
is satisfactory. Civil works for the five Technical Training Centers
(TTCs) have been completed. About 90 percent of the equipment has been
purchased and about 60 percent delivered and installed. All TTCs began to
operate at full capacity in January 1976 when the new academic year started.
Over 500 technical teachers have completed or are about to complete their
training. Technical assistance financed by the U.K. for the project is
also satisfactory. Disbursement has improved considerably. Revised
total project cost is now about 40 percent above appraisal estimate. The
Government will finance the cost overrun. The project is expected to be
completed about three months ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 220:       Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:    US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction remains about two to three years behind
schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in preparation
of contract document, late financial allocations, heavy rains in the 1973 con-
struction season and, more recently, slow response by GOI to high inflation
rates and consequent civil works costs overruns - have been mainly overcome,
but time lost cannot be regained. Estimated project cost is 50 percent above
the appraisal estimate, but with higher rice prices on the world market, the
project's economic rate of return remains over 20 percent. The closing date
has been postponed by 18 months as a result of project delay.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Cr. No. 246:       Seeds:  US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Significant progress has been made in the construction
of the irrigation infrastructure and in land development at the National
Seeds Corporation (NSC). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and is
now 70 percent completed. The inadequacy of NSC management at the opera-
tional level is reflected in technical production problems, low yields of
seed and high costs of production. Increasing nation-wide production prob-
lems caused by prevalent disease, pests and insect losses has resulted in
government authorities now giving certified seed production high priority.
Cr. No. 259:       Tea:  US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded
appraisal expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation
of three additional factories. Project completion, estimated for December
1977, can probably be advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating
pressure on available funds and the main challenge for the two PTPs will
be to reduce working capital requirements, as well as overhead and indirect
costs, and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260:       Second Highway:   US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction work is about 80 percent finished and should
be completed by August 1976, about one and a half years behind schedule.
The delay was caused largely by slow progress in mobilizing contractors,
difficulties in equipment delivery, heavy rains and landslides. The closing
date has therefore been postponed by 15 months to December 31, 1976. Design
standards for the road sections have been slightly lowered and some savings
have been achieved, which, together with other savings have partly offset
construction cost increases of 12 percent.
Cr. No. 275:       Third Technical Assistance: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Effective Date: February 25,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress on this project is satisfactory. The closing
date has been postponed by another year to complete disbursements for
ongoing studies.
Cr. No. 288:       Second Education:   US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This agricultural training project, being implemented
by the Department of Agriculture, is about 16 months delayed because of



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
late appointment of consultant architects, lack of counterpart funds, delays
in bid analysis and in awarding contracts. As a result, civil works,
which were to be completed already, have not commenced. Furniture and
equipment procurement have therefore been deferred. Unlike the physical
aspects of the project, the educational aspects are generally on schedule.
Total project costs are now estimated to be 90 percent higher than the
original estimate. Government has budgeted for the cost overrun. Disburse-
ment, which has been slow, should improve since civil works contracts have
now been awarded.
Cr. No. 289:       Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:    US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Civil Works and equipment purchases for the main project,
Pekalen-Sampean, are proceeding but completion of civil works will be
about two years behind schedule. Due to inflation, project costs are
likely to be substantially higher than appraisal estimates. Consultants
for the various studies are at work with their counterparts. Disbursements
are also on schedule.
Cr. No. 300:       Population:   US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress of this project is generally satisfactory.
Steps are being taken to improve preparation and implementation of project
components concerned with communications, research and evaluation. All
vehicles have been procured and good progress is being made with equipment
procurement. The civil works section of the Project Implementation Unit
functions well but is underutilized because of delays in making policy
decisions. Construction costs will exceed appraisal estimates by 135
percent. Population Education is now being introduced into school curricula
after a successful trial. Despite its limitations, the national family
planning program, of which the project is an integral part, is expanding
annually and showing good results.
Cr. No. 310:       Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I):    US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This credit is fully committed.
Cr. No. 318:       Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:    US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Progress on this project is slow but funds are expected to
be fully committed by September 30, 1977. Due to substantial cost increases,
only about half of the anticipated tonnage will be rehabilitated.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 319:       Fourth Agricultural Estates:  US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Physical progress of the project which is being executed
by PNPX, a Government-owned estate group, continues to be most satisfactory,
with plantings of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in
excellent condition. Coffee is a promising crop, while cloves planted
in 1974 are growing well. A hybrid coconut seed garden is being established,
the first in Indonesia. PNPX management need to pay more attention to cost
control and to financial planning. Substantial cost increases have taken
place largely due to an expansion in the size of the program compared with the
appraisal report. The Government has agreed to provide part of the shortfall
in project funding and discussions with the Government are proceeding on a
proposed increase in the budgetary allocation. PNPX is keen to participate in
smallholder development.
Cr. No. 334:       Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits
165-IND and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays
due to procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result
the project is two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties
have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. No further delays
are therefore expected.
Cr. No 355:        Beef Cattle Development:  US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project imple-
mentation. Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and fi-
nancial management and coordination have been weak. The last supervision
mission undertook a thorough project review and its recommendations, which
include major changes in project scope and objectives, are presently under
discussion with Government.
Cr. No. 358:      North Sumatera Smallholder Development:    US$5 Million
Credit of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project performance, which had suffered from severe fin-
nancial and organizational difficulties, has improved greatly. Physical
progress is encouraging; rubber planting and rice intercropping are now
on schedule. There is some room for improvement in financial management,
in which consultants are assisting. Total project costs are now estimated
at about three times the original estimate of US$10 million. Disbursements
are expected to be completed ahead of schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Cr. No. 387:       Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1,
1973; Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about 10 months behind schedule, mainly due
to insufficient top management staff and paper shortages last year. The paper
shortage has been overcome and about 18 million text books were printed by
January 1976, about four months behind schedule. Steps are being taken to
strengthen project management and to improve arrangements for expert services.
Measures to improve project implementation have been discussed and agreed with
the Government. The book testing and teacher training programs are on schedule,
but their results have not yet been evaluated. Procurement of instructional
equipment will be completed by early 1976.
Cr. No. 388:       Third Highways:   US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections
in the project was started early in 1974 under two contracts and is now 60
percent completed. Construction has been delayed mainly because of long
mobilization periods and heavy rains. Project costs will likely exceed
original estimates (including contingencies) by 57 percent mainly due to
sharply escalated prices. The training program has been completed success-
fully.
Cr. No. 399:       West Java Thermal Power:   US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 mw units at Muara
Karang were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal.
This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase
in the total project cost of more than 100 percent. Government will provide
the additional funds required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets
in its financial recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit
Agreement.
Cr. No. 400:       Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:    US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Planting is presently slightly behind schedule but
it is expected that targets will be achieved or even exceeded by the end
of the 1975/76 planting season. Project nurseries are well organized
and field work is proceeding well. Also non-participating farmers have
benefitted from the project. Total project costs are estimated to be
double the amount originally envisaged and project management is attempting
to achieve cost reductions. Due to the high prices for tea (about twice
the level expected at the time of appraisal), the economic rate of return
is still satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 405:       Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:   US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
In view of the rapid and continuing increase in the cost
of sugar factory machinery and the more recent shortage of budgetary funds,
the scope of the above-mentioned project has been reduced by the deletion of
six minor rehabilitations from the project description. The revised project
consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories and the construction
of a new factory. Credit funds have been reallocated from the minor to
the major rehabilitation and to the new construction.
Cr. No. 428:       Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Of 430 ha earmarked for the project, about 270 ha had been
acquired by end 1975, and 108 ha had been developed to readiness for
occupation. 42 factories are operating on the estate and 35 more are in
various stages of construction or commissioning. The rate of new applica-
tions for land allotment has been slower in recent months than in the past,
and the estate is intensifying its promotional efforts. Overall, operations
are profitable, despite an increase in construction costs.
Cr. No. 436:       Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After a long start-up period and difficulties in finding
and recruiting qualifiedl local staff, PDFCI has now reached the operating
stage. Commitments have started and are expected to increase rapidly
as PDFCI's own operational capability improves.
Cr. No. 451:       Fourth Technical Assistance:   US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479:       Bali Tourism:   US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial diffi-
culties. Tender documents for all major infrastructure works were issued
in January 1976. The earliest possible completion date has shifted from
February 1979 to October 1979. Budgetary allocations as requested by the
Bali Tourism Development Corporation for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Negotia-
tions with one group of investors are in progress but otherwise investor in-
terest appears to be low. Promotional efforts to attract additional investors
have been intensified in 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 480:       Fisheries Credit:   US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Lending for fishponds is now on schedule, and the contract for
construction of shore facilities at Ambon has been awarded. There may how-
ever be some delays in skipjack vessel construction due to procurement pro-
blems. Although significant cost increases are envisaged, the project is
still expected to be financially viable because of increases in fish prices.
Cr. No. 514:         Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:   US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The consultants are now making good progress in designing
works and preparing contract documents. The first civil works contract is
expected to be let in August 1976, about one year behind the original schedule,
due in part to delays in loan signing.
Loan No. 1005:       Railway:   US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been
slow due to poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now
improved. Bids have been received for most items and the bulk of the con-
tracts should be signed soon. Passenger traffic in 1975 was slightly lower
than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic has continued
to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive power, which
should improve towards the end of 1976. Although tariffs were raised in May
1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25 percent and freight revenues
by about 10 percent, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate further, as
operating costs have continued to rise at a faster rate.
Loan No. 1040:       Jakarta Urban Development:   US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress on the Kampung Improvement Program has been
very good; costs were less than estimated, allowing additional work to be
undertaken. Execution of the Klender Sites and Services Scheme is one year
behind schedule due to disagreements about site boundaries. Most consultant
contracts commenced early in 1976.
Loan No. 1049:       Five Cities Water Supply:   US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the
project is running 8-10 months behind schedule. This delay together



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
with higher rates of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase
project costs 20-25 percent above the appraisal estimate. Water Enterprises
have now been established in each of the five cities and good progress has
been made in their staffing. The anticipated interdepartmental decree which
would govern the relationship of the Water Enterprises to the Central Govern-
ment's Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has not been issued; it is now
proposed to clarify this relationship in a Presidential Decree which is
being drafted.
Loan No. 1054:    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):    US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements initially were slower
than expected, but they should increase in the second half of FY76. The
progress of this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1089:     Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
Work on the PUSRI III project is proceeding according to
schedule. Work on the related gas pipeline was experiencing delay, but steps
have been taken to expedite implementation.
Loan No. 1100:     Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Consultants for the project and technical assistance advisors
have been selected. Construction work is about five months behind schedule
due to the delay in selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1127:    Fourth Power:   US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The options for a third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang, which
were included in the tenders for the first two units financed under Credit
399, have been exercised. The project is on schedule and expected to be
completed during 1978.
Loan No. 1139:     Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress in design is satisfactory. About 60 percent of
The equipment and materials required for the project have been ordered.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Loan No. 1179:     Agricultural Research and Extension:    US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on February 23, 1976. A pro-
ject implementation unit has been established. Substantial progress has
been made in establishing and staffing the headquarters of the Agency for
Research and Development and in directing and integrating the research
work on the four crop/commodity groups to be supported through the project.
Loan No. 1197:     National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:    US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 2, 1976. The project
agency, BAKOSURTANAL, has made considerable progress in project implementa-
tion. Preliminary designs for project facilities have been completed, de-
tailed design is in progress and tender documents should be ready on schedule
by August 1976.   Preparation of equipment specifications and planning of
aerial photography operations to support detailed resource surveys of the
southern Sumatra region are also on schedule. Senior project staff have
been appointed.
Loan No. 1236:     Fourth Highway Project:   US$130 million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan is expected to become effective on August 13, 1976.
Loan No. 1237:     Fourth Education Project:   US$37 million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan is expected to become effective on July 14, 1976.
Loan No. 1250:     Second Shipping Project:   US$54 million Loan of May 20, 1976:
Closing Date: December 1980.
This loan is expected to become effective on August 30, 1976.
Loan No. 1254:     Third Fertilizer Expansion Project:    US$70 million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan is expected to become effective on August 30, 1976.
Loan No. 1259:     Fifth Power Project:   US$90 million Loan of May 20, 1976.
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
This loan is expected to become effective on August 30, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Loan No. 1269:     Seventh Irrigation Project:   US$33 million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan is expected to become effective on
August 30, 1976.
Loan No. 1267:     Food Crops Extension Project:   US$22 million Loan of
June 4, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan is expected to become effective on
August 30, 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 6 pages
INDONESIA: TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                 US$30 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                  25 years, including six years of grace, with
interest at 8.85 percent per annum.
Project Description:    Major components of the project are:
I. Implementation of two test schemes:
(a) New Settlement at Baturaja
(i) construction of ten village
centers with about 4,500 settler
houses;
(ii) provision of water supply and
sanitation facilities equipping
and staffing health and school
facilities in each village;
(iii) construction of about 15 km of all
weather roads, about 110 km of
village roads, and about 280 km
of farm tracks;
(iv) block planting 4,500 ha of rubber
and maintenance for up to six
years;
(v) distribution of about 4,500 head
cattle, fertilizer inputs and
seeds to support food crop pro-
duction on 2,250 ha; and
(vi) establishment and staffing of
agricultural credit, extension
and cooperative services.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 6 pages
(b) Settlement Upgrading at Way Abung
(i) construction of about 50 km of
all weather road, and 50 km of
village roads, with upgrading of
a further 50 km of roads;
(ii) block planting of about 2,500 ha
of rubber with up to six years of
maintenance, to benefit 5,000
settlers with holdings of uplands
clearly unsuited for future irriga-
tion development;
(iii) distribution of about 5,000 cattle
to those settlers who have not
yet participated in the DGT cattle
scheme;
(iv) expansion of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative facilities
in 20 villages;
(v) construction of four secondary
schools;
(vi) health facilities and staff for
22 villages; and
(vii) feasibility studies and preparation
of detailed engineering plans for
irrigation facilities.
(c) Technical assistance in the implementation
of the two test schemes.
:. Settlement Area Studies
(a)  Monitoring and Evaluation Studies to
determine the success of the new settlement
plans, the agricultural techniques, and
the health delivery system employed in
these test schemes; and
(b)  Project Studies of alternative farm
management systems, especially as
regards annual cropping patterns, the
role of livestock and the potential



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 6 pages
role of different forms of machinization;
social and Regional Studies to determine
transmigration schemes on regional
development.
1.  Program Support:
(a) Expansion of DGT's planning capability
through technical assistance for identi-
fication, survey and initial preparation
of 200,000 ha for future settlements;
(b) Research and Testing of viable food
cropping patterns for the red/yellow
podzolic soils; and
(c) Holding areas for cattle, established
and operated in strategic locations
to serve a distribution program for
future settlement areas.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 6 pages
Project Costs:                                                  US$ Million
Local  Foreign   Total
A. INVESTMENT COST
New Settlement - Baturaja
-  Roads, Villages & Housing                4.11     3.59     7.70
-  Health Services                          0.30    0.14      0.44
-  Rubber Development                       2.69    3.11      5.80
-  Cattle Distribution                      0.41    0.47      0.88
-  Seed Farm                                0.17    0.22      0.39
Settlement Upgrading Way Abung
-  Roads & Schools                          1.57    2.52      4.09
-  Health Services                          0.48    0.28      0.76
-  Rubber Development                       1.43     1.97     3.40
-  Cattle Distribution                      0.53    0.53      1.06
Project Management Unit:
-  Vehicles                                 0.03    0.11      0.14
Revolving Fund - Short term Credit          1.05     2.45     3.50
Cattle Distribution - Central Facilities    0.44    0.43      0.87
Sub-total                               13.21   15.82     29.03
B.   OPERATING COSTS
New Settlement - Baturaja                   0.33     -        0.33
-  Village Management                       0.15     0.08     0.23
-  Health Services & Training               0.13     0.08     0.21
-  Cattle Distribution                      0.27     0.29     0.56
-  Seed Farm                                0.67     1.35     2.02
- Subsistance Grant
Settlement Upgrading Way Abung
-  Village Management                       0.07      -       0.07
-  Health Services & Training               0.19     0.23     0.42
-  Cattle Distribution                      0.10     0.01     0.11
Project Management Unit:
Local Staff                                 0.36      -       0.36
Consultants and Technical Services          0.35     0.84     1.19
Cattle Distribution - Central Facilities    0.38     0.12     0.50
Sub-total                                3.00     3.00     6.00
C.   STUDIES
Future Project Preparation                    1.79    2.14     3.93
Monitoring & Evaluation                       1.27    0.47     1.74
Regional Impact Study                        0.09     0.21     0.30
Sub-total                                  3.15     2.82     5.97
Base Cost                                   19.36    21.64    41.00
Physical Contingency                          2.15    3.43     5.58
Price Contingency                            5.31     4.93    10.24
TOTAL COST                                26.82    30.00    56.82



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 6 pages
Financing:              The proposed Bank loan of $30 million would
finance the full foreign exchange cost or
53 percent of the total cost for the first five
year period of project implementation. The
local costs of the project during this period
of $26 million would be met by the Government
through annual budget appropriations. Since
the implementation of the test settlement
schemes would not be completed until the tenth
year, the Government would also meet the total
balance costs estimated at US$14 million.
Retroactive financing in an amount of about
$1.0 million equivalent is recommended for
surveys, vehicles, equipment and for civil
works necessary for the establishment of the
first village in Baturaja for which contracts
have been awarded after local competitive
bidding.
Estimated
Disbursements:                        --- US$ Millions --------------
Bank FY     1977    1978    1979    1980     1981
Annual       3.5     7.5     9.5     6.0      3.5
Cumulative   3.5    11.0    20.5    26.5    30.0
Procurement:            Civil works for roads ($9.2 million), villages and
housing ($6.6 million) and for agricultural support
facilities ($0.7 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding to prequalified
contractors in accordance with Government pro-
cedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Block
planting of 7,000 ha of rubber and its maintenance
for up to six years ($10.7 million) would be carried
out on the basis of a negotiated contract between
DGT and PNP X. Fertilizers and chemicals ($1.0
million), as well as vehicles and equipment
($1.5 million) necessary for rubber development,
would be procured by PNP X following international
competitive bidding procedures under Bank Group
Guidelines. Other vehicles and equipment ($2.2
million) would also be procured by international
competitive bidding. Cattle ($1.9 million) would be
procured locally, mainly in Java and Madura and if
necessary, from abroad.



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 6 pages
Consultants:            Consultants services ($6.4 million) would be con-
tracted on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank for project implementation (233 man
months), project monitoring (120 man months) and
for program preparation (300 man months). Tech-
nical services ($1.7 million) for aerial photography
would be contracted through BAKOSURTANAL, and for
soil surveys through the Soils Research Institute
(LPT).
Economic Rate of
Return:               The weighted average rate of return
for the Baturaja and Way Abung settlements would
be about 13.5 percent.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 1119b-IND dated June 10, 1976.    East Asia
and Pacific Projects Department.






IBRD- 1 13/0RI
H.1  A., .1                    IDu-                       Palembong  .-              A                 ,    c,rc
L <H.-. - TEBINGTINGG                      .                             i             s   /  \      A  OCe N
S U M     A T  E  R A                                   .NDN5A 4
3ukLaoInggaA                ,.->                                                               N ASeA N OCEANF~aEL T  cA N
X   /  uMvotosoling   \                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr3bamnul h, ;Sf oyA Agunrg  - .  ,h,'"  ^.  E;c  h   . ,
WQ~~~~~~~~~~~~V
0  0 h.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ to.
/F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/     arr.kl          r3  C D Oo)                                     ;'9     S                                      ''
o
<0
E-       I   51.-1A
/~~~~~~~. .. blow   df Ae   Id Lhtgh                      A M   P U N G
\0               / /-,._
n.9 -  ,                .-                        a n.a
N 
m  : Pr7orPopsd-eiero- rsg
SETEMN AREAS IN LMPN      AND SMT ERA SELATANoS PRVICSf                                        Zgd
I   I  Es:lngbssrrarrao  Area                                                                             '''
Loic41Foroar Reserae,f c-                                                                                . 
-       Propasod NewaMo1or Roars                                                                   :.           :
N     -    /dar.rrl Roods a 
____ Or/or Roads                     (                                                                    .
Saorirs                               "-.             Kotaagong  /   (      Telokbatung g
---Pros moal Rounordarse~k>oln ,.
INDONESIA                                          4                                            <)Ketpeong
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                  0 n  i         Pku
SETTLEMENT AREAS IN LAMPUNG AND SUMATERA SELATAN PROVINCES                                   /a,gofla5i//  Oiv&.  s
/03                                    ast                                   sos                 /7Sebtsi l.Sr        , 






IBRD 11317R
FEBRUARY 1976
IN DO  S IA N E                   --
TRANSMIGRATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WAYABUNG AREA REHABILITATION
NATIONAL HIGHWAY
DISTRICT ROADS                                           Menggala
VILLAGE ROADS     Gedungratu
RAILWAYS
_   :-P RIVERSanaagan J
(  unungkatun     ,    TraKencana/ /
0       5      10
KILOMETERS                gugan    Rat.
d  /9   |  <        < Muly~~~~~~~~~~~~a Kenaa \J
t       i)/ ) Maga Kenaa4=mJ 
) l Daya ~~~ulMun uly           -vsl 
-q  o~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.no
TESINGTINGGI O
L IHT  AREA OF MAPBa
MAR.APURA 0  j  JA VA      Abun g   tary  /
INDIAN OCEAN  otT         F/        7    Umun 
1Q2   t   8-   (9/ ~~~~~ Agung / \                             0
, SEA   ml
/O  OTOABUKMEUN



