77- t
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1318 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Transmigration and Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 21, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the resnective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Inner Islands" means the islands of Java, Bali, Madura
and Lombok in the territories of the Borrower;
(b) "Outer Islands" means the territories of the Borrower
other than the Inner Islands, comprising mainly Sumatera, Kaliman-
tan, Sulawesi and Irian Jaya;
(c) "Transmigration Program" means the Borrower's on-going
program for resettling families from the Inner Islands to the
Outer Islands;
(d) "Baturaja Settlement Area" means an area of about 60,000
ha bordering on the Trans-Sumatera highway between Baturaja and
Martapura, in the Borrower's Province of Sumatera Selatan;


﻿-3-
(e) "Way Abung Settlement Area" means an area of about 30,000
ha near Kota Bumi, bounded on the north by the Tulang Bawang River,
on the west by the Rarem River, and on the east by the Terusan
River and the Menggala/Gunung Batin Road, in the Borrower's Prov-
ince of Lampung;
(f) "ParticiDating Farmer" means a farmer and his family (if
any) resettled either in the Baturaja Settlement Area or previously
settled in the Way Abung Settlement Area under the Transmigration
Program, as the context may require;
(g) "Minimum Subsistence Requirement" means food and other
essential commodities with a value at 1976 prices equivalent to
Rpl80,000 per annum for a family of five and including a daily
per capita caloric intake of at least 1950 calories;
(h) "DGT" means the Directorate General of Transmigration of
the Borrower's Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration and Coopera-
tives;
(i) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(j) "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crons
Agriculture of the MOA;
(k) "ARD" means the Borrower's Agency for Research and De-
velopment established and operating under MOA pursuant to Presi-
dential Decrees Nos. 44 and 45 of 1974 and in accordance with
ChaDter VIII of Decree No. 190/Kpts/Org/5/1975 of the Minister
of Agriculture of the Borrower;


﻿-4-
(1) "CRIA" means the Borrower's Central Research Institute
for Agriculture at Bogor, operating under ARD;
(m) "AES" means the Agro-Economic Survey of Indonesia;
(n) "LPT" means Lembaga Penelitian Tanah, the Soils Research
Inustitute of the MOA;
(o) "CRSR" means Pusat Penelitian Pedesaan, the Center for
Rural Sociology Research of the Institut Pertanian Bogor, the
Institute for Agriculture at Bogor;
(p) "IHRD" means Badan Penelitian dan Pengenbangan Kesehatan,
the Borrower's Institute of Health Research and Development of the
Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(q) "DGLS" means Direktorat Jenderal Peternakan, the Direc-
torate General of Livestock Services of the MOA;
(r) "Bina Marga" means the Directorate General of Highways
of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power;
(s) "BRI" means the Bank Rakyat Indonesia, established by
and operating under Law No. 21/1968 of the Borrower;
(t) "BAKOSURTANAL" means the Borrower's National Coordinating
Agency for Surveys and   pping, established by and operating under
Presidential Decree No. 83 of 1969 of the Borrower;


﻿-5-
(u) "Agraria" means the Directorate General of Agrarian Af-
fairs of the Borrower's Ministry of Internal Affairs;
(v) "PNP X" means Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan X, a
state-owned enterprise of the Borrower, established and so
designated by Government Regulation No. 14 of 1968, and any
successor thereto;
(w) "BIMAS Program" means the Borrower's program (Bimbingan
Masal), administered through the BIMAS Secretariat, for raising
food crop production and farm income by supplying credit and agri-
cultural inputs at subsidized prices, established pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 95/1969 of the Borrower;
(x) "BIMAS Secretariat" means Badan Pengendali Bimas, the
executive body of the BIMAS Program at the national level;
(y) "REC" means a rural extension center (Balai Penyuluhan
Pertanian (BPP)) of the Borrower (previously known as Balai Pendi-
dikan Masyarakat Desa (BPMD)), established and operating in accor-
dance with Joint Decree of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture
and Minister of Internal Affairs, respectively, Nos. 233/Kpts/Hm/
4/1976 and 76/1976, dated April 9, 1976;
(z) "KUD" means Koperasi Unit Desa, a village-level coop-
erative organized in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 4
of 1973;
(aa) "BUUD" means Badan Usaha Unit Desa, a village-level
business enterprise, organized in accordance with Presidential
Decree No. 4 of 1973 for eventual conversion into a KUD;


﻿-6-
(bb) "DIP" means Daftar Isian Proyek, a project budget doc-
ument of the Borrower;
(cc) "BRI Village Unit" means a branch of BRI at the village
level, provided for in Presidential Decree No. 4 of 1973 of the
Borrower, established to provide banking services in the context
of agricultural and rural development;
(dd) "PMLJ" means the Project Management Unit referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(ee) "Project Director" means the person appointed as Project
Director in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement;
(ff) "BAL" means Undang - Undang Pokok Agraria, the Basic
Agrarian Law of the Borrower, Act No. 5 of 1960;
(gg) "Hak Milik" means the right of ownership in respect of
land, as provided under the BAL;
(hh) "Hak Pakai" means the right of use in respect of land,
as provided under the BAL;
(ii) "Expansion Body", "Guidance Body" and "Implementation
Body" mean the inter-governmental bodies established by Presiden-
tial Decree No. 29 of 1974 to coordinate the Transmigration Program
respectively at the national, provincial and district levels;


﻿-7-
(j) "Governing Regulation" means the Borrower's Statute
No. 3 of 1972 (Basic Stipulations for Transmigration), Presiden-
tial Decree No. 29 of 1974 (establishing the Expansion, Guidance
and Implementation Bodies), and Presidential Decrees No. 44 and
45 of 1974; and
(kk) "Rp" and "Rupiah" mean the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-9-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, economic,
engineering, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall establish and main-
tain, within the DGT, a Project Management Unit (sometimes herein
referred to as the PMU), having responsibility for the coordination
and overall supervision of the implementation of the Project. The
PMU will be headed by a Project Director reporting directly to the
Diresti: General, DGT, and will have at least the following other
full-time staff, all with suitable qualifications and experience:
(i) at national headquarters, an agriculturalist, a civil engineer,
a land settlement snecialist, and a general administrator; and
(ii) at each of the Baturaja and Way Abung Settlement Areas, a
site manager assisted by at least four specialists in positions
corresponding to those described under (i) above.
(b) The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of any per-
son proposed to be appointed to the position of Project; Director,
prior to the time such appointment is made.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall employ a firm of con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, to assist the PMU in the detailed planning
and implementation of the Project. The individual experts to be
provided to the Borrower by said firm shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) In addition to the firm of consultants employed in accor-
dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall
employ consultants/specialists whose qualifications and experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, as follows:
(i) by January 1, 1977, within the PMU: (A) an Account-
ing Advisor, for a period of at least two years,
to assist in the development of accounting systems
for the PMU; and (B) about 120 man-months of con-
sultancy services, to assist in carrying out Part
II.A of the Project; and
(ii) about 264 man-months of consultancy services,
to assist the Borrower in agricultural and
physical planning of future transmigration areas.
(c) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise mu-
tually agree, the Borrower shall cause agreements to be entered
into, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as follows:


﻿- 12 -
(i) by January 1, 1977, between the DGT and, respec-
tively, (A) the CRSR, and (B) the IHRD, for assis-
tance to the Borrower in carrying out Part II.A
of the Project; and
(ii) for planning the development of existing and future
transmigration areas, respectively (A) between
DGT and BAKOSURTMAL, for the provision of aerial
surveys and topographic mapping services, and (B)
between DGT and LPT, for the provision of soils
surveys.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not modify the consolidated
budget system which has been adopted for the Project for its fiscal
year 1976-1977 (under which annual work programs related to the
Project for all agencies of the Borrower participating in the im-
plementation of the Project have been determined and agreed within
the Expansion Body and submitted for aoproval as a consolidated


﻿- 13 -
budget (DIP), and exnenditure authority for all items is subject
to the approval of the Project Director), excent after consulta-
tion with the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furr.sh to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adeouate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The accounts of DGT and of the other agencies of the
Borrower participating in the implementation of any part of the
Project, relating to the Project, which are to be kent pursuant
to the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, shall be
audited each fiscal year in accordance with arrropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by indeDendent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case not later


﻿-14-
than six mnths after the end of each such year, the Bank shall
be furnished with certified copies of such accounts for such year
as so audited and the report of such audit by such auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested. Both separate and consolidated accounts, as referred
to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, shall be so furnished.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall, by July 1, 1977: (i)
extend the coverage of the BIMAS Program to serve the settlers in
the Baturaja Settlement Area; and (ii) take all such measures as
are necessary and appropriate to strengthen the operation of the
BIMAS Program in the Way Abung Settlement Area.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the obligations
of the Borrower referred to in sub-Section (a) of this Section
3.08, the Borrower shall ensure that an adequate number of BRI
Village Units are established in the Way Abung Settlement Area
by July 1, 1977, and in the Baturaja Settlement Area within one
year of the establishment of each village, or by such later dates
as may be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
Section 3.09. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary
steps to ensure that, for a period of six years after planting of
rubber under the Project, Participating Farmers in the Baturaja
Settlement Area shall have sufficient income from farm production
and off-farm employment generated through rubber planting and
other suitable programs to meet their Minimum Subsistence Require-
ment.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate quality
and cost controls are established and enforced on a regular basis
in relation to the civil works, rubber planting, and livestock pro-
curement included under the Project, in accordance with procedures
and using consultants satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.11. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that BUUDs/KUDs are established by the sixth year in the
Baturaja and Way Abung Settlement Areas to take over from PNP X
the fertilizer and agricultural inputs supply, and rubber develop-
ment and marketing functions.
Section 3.12. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall ensure, subject to
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 3.12, that each
settler (i) in the Baturaja Settlement Area and (ii) in the Way
Abung Settlement Area who is allocated rubber pursuant to Part
B.5 of the Project, receives:


﻿- 16 -
(A) within three months after settlement (Baturaja),
or land allocation (Way Abung), a certificate
evidencing Hak Pakai rights to his house lot;
(B) within one year after settlement (Baturaja),
or land allocation (Way Abung), a certificate
evidencing Hak Pakai rights to the land allo-
cated to him for food crop/forage production;
(C) within five years after settlement (Baturaja),
or land allocation (Way Abung), a certificate
evidencing Hak Milik rights to such house lot
and land; and
(D) six years after rubber planting, Hak Milik
rights in the block-planted rubber area allo-
cated to him.
(b) The Borrower shall periodically review the performance
of the settlers referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and
shall take appropriate action in the case of any settler found to
have been negligent in the husbandry of his land. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall not, except as
otherwise mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, issue
any certificate evidencing Hak Milik rights in respect of land to
any settler who has so been found negligent.


﻿1
- 17 -
Section 3.13. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall ensure that project
monitoring and studies to be carried out under Part II.A of the
Project shall commence by January 1, 1977, and shall be carried
out in both the Baturaja and Way Abung Settlement Areas over a
period of at least five years.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall, by July 1, 1977, (i) carry
out a study of long-term credit arrangements for application in
transmigration areas, and (ii) exchange views with the Bank on
the results of such study and a related implementation program.
Section 3.14. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall, in order to ensure the
provision of adequate extension services to Participating Farmers:
(i) cause DGT to appoint, by January 1, 1977 for existing villages,
and for new villages as Village Managers are appointed, in close
cooperation with the MOA/DGFCA, an agricultural field extension
worker (PPL) to the staff of each Village Manager in both the
Baturaja and Way Abung Settlement Areas; and (ii) establish an
REC in each of the Baturaja and Way Abung Settlement Areas, within
three years after the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.15. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall permit the importa-
tion of vehicles required for the Project.


﻿-18 -
Section 3.16. Except as the Borrower and the 3ank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to ensure that:
(a) prophylactic treatment for malaria shall be administer-
ed to all settlers to be resettled in the Baturaja Settlement
Area prior to their resettlement in transit centers in Java;
(b) settler houses in the Baturaja Settlement Area shall
be sprayed with DDT within one month of the arrival of the set-
tlers intended to occupy such houses;
(c) settler houses in both the Baturaja and Way Abung Set-
tlement Areas shall be sprayed with DDT at 6 months' intervals
until malariamaetric surveys demonstrate that the incidence of
malaria in either Area has declined to an acceptable level; and
(d) village health facilities for each village in the
Baturaja Settlement Area shall be adequately staffed and equip-
ped prior to the resettlement of any settlers in such village,
and adequately maintained and operated thereafter.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.


﻿- 20-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section 4.02, the Borrower shall: (i)
require DGT and all other of its agencies participating in the
implementation of any part of the Project, to maintain separate
accounts in respect thereof; and (ii) establish and maintain with-
in DGT, a project accounting unit responsible, inter alia, for
consolidating the accounts maintained under (i) above.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PNP X or for the suspension of all or part of the onerations
of PNP X and alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
rubber development under the Project have not been made;
(b) The Governing Regulation or any provision thereof shall
have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied or waived, so as
to affect adversely: (i) the carrying out of the Project; (ii) the
performance by the Borrower of any other of its obligations under
this Agreement; or (iii) the performance by any party to any of
the agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement,
of its respective obligations under such agreement;
(c) Any of the agreements or arrangements referred to in
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement shall have been terminated or
abrogated without the concurrence of the Bank or any Darty to any
such agreement or arrangement shall have failed substantially to
perform any of its obligations thereunder, so as to affect ad-
versely the objectives of the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 22 -
Section 5.02. For the zurnoses of Sec:ion ;.,1 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
a   Any of the events specified in paragraph (b) and (c) of
:ection  J.     this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are snecified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The Borrower has annointed a Project Director, a site
manager for each of the Baturaja and Way Abung Settlement Areas,
and a head of the accounting unit in the PMU;
(b) The Borrower has annointed a consulting firm in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
and
(c) DGT has entered into agreements or arrangements, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as follows:
(i) with PNP X, for rubber nlanting and rubber tree
maintenance under the Project;
(ii) with MOA/DGLS, for the sunrly and distribution of
cattle to Particinatrin Farmers, and the provision
-f related veterinary services;
(iii with MOA/DGFCA, for the provision of agricultural
inputs, food sunlements and extension services to


﻿-24-
Participatine Farmers, and the construction of REC's
referred to in Section 3.14 of this Agreement;
(iv) with MOAiARD;CRIA, for development of (A) the seed
farm and nursery, and (B) the CRIA multiple crorning
trials and demonstration area, referred to under
Part I.A.12 of the Project;
(v) with the BIMAS Secretariat/BRI, for the operation
of the BIMAS Program with agricultural credit in
the Baturas and Way Abung Settlement Areas; and
(vi) with Bina Marga, for assistance in relation to
design, contract administration and construction
of roads under the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the agreement referred to under
Section 6.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, DGT and
PNP X, respectively, and is legally binding upon DGT and PNP X,
respective-'y, in accordance with its terms.
Section 0.03. The date October 19. 1976, is hereby specified
for the ourposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 25 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Cpnditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE              BITJMON
JAKARTA                       46415
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 26 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Exnenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works (ex-            7,500,000         55%
cluding, in Ba-
turaja, civil works
for schools, health
facilities and water
supplies)
(2) Vehicles and Equip-         2,800,000
ment:
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                   exDenditures
(b) locally manu-                            95% of local ex-
factured and                            penditures
procured fol-
lowing inter-
national com-
petitive bid-
ding
(c) locally as-                              40% of local
sembled vehicles                        expenditures
Drocured fol-
lowing prudent
shopping


﻿- 28 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(d) imported farm                            65% of local
equipment pro-                          expenditures
cured locally
(3) Agrochemicals (in-          1,200,000         100%
cluding cost of de-
livery, but not in-
cluding duties and
taxes, if any)
(4) Expenditures for            2,700,000         30% of local ex-
rubber development                           penditures
(other than agro-
chemicals and equip-
ment procured by
PNP X under its con-
tract with DGT)
(5) Cattle                      1,400,000
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                   expenditures
(b) procured lo-                             50% of local ex-
cally                                   penditures
(6) Consultants' Ser-           6,40o,000         100%
vices and Surveys
(7) Village Completion          4,500,000         100%
Payments in the
Baturaja Settlement
Area, comprising ex-
penditures for:
(a) Schools;
(b) Health Facilities;


﻿- 29 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(c) Water Supply;
(d) Staff Salaries
(2 years):
(i) Baturaja
Village
Manage-
ment;
(ii) Baturaja
Health
Service
Staff;
(e) Malaria Program;
and
(f) Agricultural
Credit for
Participating
Farmers (1 year)
(8) Unallocated                 3,500,000
TOTAL      30,000,000


﻿- 30 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories


﻿- 31 -
1, 2, 4 and 6 on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after
May 1, 1975; and
(ii) Category 7, except upon certification by DGT
based on monitoring according to criteria for
village completion satisfactory to the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the


﻿- 32 -
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the Borrower's program of regional
development of the Outer Islands through support for the on-going
Transmigration Program.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I:   Implementation of two test settlement schemes
A.   New Settlement at Baturaja
1.   Construction of about 10 village centers with a
total of about 4,500 settler houses, and related set-
tlement in the Baturaja Settlement Area of about 4,500
Participating Farmers. Each village center will include,
without limitation, a primary school, health post, mosque,
community center, market, offices and staff housing.
2.   Construction, equipping and staffing of a Health
Center for the Baturaja Settlement Area.
3.   Equipping and staffing of school facilities and
health posts in each viLlage.
4.   Construction of about 15 km of all-weather roads,
about 100 km of village roads, and about 300 km of
farm tracks.


﻿-34-
5.   Block-planting of about 4,500 ha of rubber, and
maintenance of the rubber so planted for a period of at
least six years after planting.
6.   Allocation of 1 ha of block-planted rubber, and
4 ha of additional land, to each Participating Farmer.
7.   Distribution of about 4,500 head of cattle, one
to each Participating Farmer.
8.   Distribution of fertilizer inputs, seeds and im-
plements to Participating Farmers in the first year of
settlement, to support food crop production on about
2,250 ha (1/2 ha for each Participating Farmer), and
to establish a leguminous cattle fodder crop on about
2,250 ha (1/2 ha for each Participating Farmer).
9.   Distribution of food and other essential commodi-
ties to all Participating Farmers during the first year
of settlement in accordance with DGT's existing distri-
bution programs.
10. Provision of adequate water supply and sanitation
facilities in each village.
11. Establishment and staffing of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services.
12. (a) Development of a seed farm and nursery (about
200 ha) northwest of Baturaja, and related cleaning and


﻿- 35 -
processing facilities, to provide settlers with seeds
and planting materials;
(b) development of a block-planted rubber demon-
stration area (about 100 ha) adjacent to the seed farm
and nursery, for fertilizer trials, demonstrations and
training settlers in proper rubber tapping techniques;
and
(c) development of an additional demonstration
area (about 200 ha) for multiple cropping systems
trials and demonstrations to be conducted by CRIA.
B.   Settlement Upgrading at Way Abung
1.   Construction, staffing and equipping of about
4 secondary schools (in addition to existing schools).
2.   Construction, staffing and equipping of 2 Health
Centers and 22 village health posts for the Way Abung
Settlement Area.
3.   Construction of about 50 km of all-weather roads
and about 50 km of village roads, and upgrading of about
50 km of additional village roads.
4.   Block-planting of about 2,500 ha of rubber, and
maintenance of the rubber so planted for a period of
at least six years after planting.


﻿- 36 -
5.   Allocation of 1/2 ha of block-planted rubber to
each of about 5,000 Participating Farmers with land
holdings clearly unsuited for future irrigation
development.
6.   Distribution of about 5,000 head of cattle, one
to each Participating Farmer who has not previously
benefitted from the DGT cattle program.
7.   Expansion of agricultural credit, extension and
cooperative facilities to an additional 20 villages
in the Way Abung Settlement Area, and upgrading of
such facilities in two villages;
8.   Provision of adequate water supply and sanitation
facilities, including about 2,000 wells and hand-pumps
and about 5,000 additional pit latrines.
9.   Feasibility studies and preparation of detailed
engineering plans for irrigation facilities.
Part II: Studies
A.   Monitoring and evaluation studies to measure the socio-
economic development of the Baturaja and Way Abung Settlement
Areas, including monitoring and evaluation of the health
delivery systems.
B.   Other studies relevant to the Transmigration Program,
including studies to determine the impact of transmigration


﻿- 37 -
schemes on regional development, and studies on alternative
farm management systems and on population distribution.
Subject to the provisions of Section 3.13, the specific
studies to be carried out under Part II of the Project, and the
terms of reference therefor, shall be agreed annually between
DGT and the Bank.
Part III: Program Support
A.   Strengthening of DGT planning capacity.
B.   Identification, survey, planning, and initial prepara-
tion of an area of about 200,000 ha for future settlement
under the Transmigration Program, with the assistance of
consultants.
C.   A program of research and testing of viable food crop-
ping patterns for red/yellow podzolic soils.
D.   Establishment of holding areas for cattle to facilitate
cattle distribution to settlers in future settlement areas.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1982                                    315,000
may 1, 1983                                          330,000
November 1, 1983                                     345,000
May 1, 1984                                         365,000
November 1, 1984                                     375,000
May 1, 1985                                          395,000
November 1, 1985                                      10,ooo
May 1, 1986                                          430,000
November 1, 1986                                     450,000
May 1, 1987                                          465,000
November 1, 1987                                     490,000
may 1, 1988                                          510,000
November 1, 1988                                     535,000
May 1, 1989                                         560,000
November 1, 1989                                    580,000
May 1, 1990                                          605,000
November 1, 1990                                     635,000
May 1, 1991                                          665,000
November 1, 1991                                     690,000
May 1, 1992                                          720t000
November 1, 1992                                     755,000
May 1, 1993                                          790,000
November 1, 1993                                     820,000
May 1, 1994                                          860,000
November 1, 1994                                     895,000
May 1, 1995                                          940,000
November 1, 1995                                     975,000
May 1, 1996                                        1,025,000
November 1, 1996                                   1,065,000
May 1, 1997                                        1,115,000
November 1, 1997                                   1,160,000
May 1, 1998                                       1,215,000
November 1, 1998                                   1,270,000


﻿- 39 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
May 1, 1999                                        1,320,000
November 1, 1999                                   1,385,000
May 1, 2000                                        1,445,000
November 1, 2000                                   1,505,000
May 1, 2001                                        1,590,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 4o-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.05%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          3.90%
Nbre than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    5.65%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7.45%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                    8.15%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿41i -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Provisions
Vehicles and Equipment
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3, contracts
for the purchase of vehicles and equipment shall be procured
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth
in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August
1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles and equip-
ment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000,
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following
local advertising only, or on the basis of prudent shopping
after solicitation of at least three price quotations, sub-
ject, however, to an aggregate total amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $300,000.
Rubber Development
3.   Supplies and equipment required for the implemen-
tation of the contract between DGT and PNP X referred to in
Section 6.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement, shall be procured


﻿-42 -
in accordance with the Borrower's normal procurement pro-
cedures applicable to Government-owned estates; provided,
however, that (except as otherwise permitted below) fertili-
zers and chemicals shall be procured by PNP X on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines. Up to the equivalent of $100,000 in value of
fertilizers and chemicals may be procured by PNP X annually
on the basis of competitive bidding following local adver-
tising only.
Civil Works
4.   (a) Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph
(b), contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding to prequalified contractors in
accordance with the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
Normally, civil works contracts will be let in "village
packages" (i.e., on a village by village basis), comprising
parcels for roads, settler housing and village centers respec-
tively, and contractors will have the right to bid for
individual parcels, or the "village package" as a whole.
(b) The Borrower may carry out by force account
the civil works for road construction, subject, however, to
an aggregate value not exceeding the equivalent of $3,700,000.
(c) Civil works contracts shall provide for ad-
vances to contractors of up to 20% of the contract value
for the purchase of equipment and building materials.


﻿- 43 -
Livestock
5.   Livestock for the Project to be procured locally
shall be procured in accordance with purchasing guidelines
acceptable to the Bank. Livestock to be procured from outside
Indonesia shall be procured on the basis of at least three
price quotations from suppliers of livestock in countries
free from foot-and-mouth disease.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such


﻿- 44
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in In-
donesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. With respect to civil works
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall intro-
duce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished
by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 46-
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the firm of consultants referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿-47 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


