Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15351-UA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
APRIL 20, 1996
Municipal and Social Services Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1996)
Currency Unit = Karbovanets
US$1   =  180,000 Krb
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COM   -   Cabinet of Ministers
ERR    -   Economic Rate of Return
FSU    -   Former Soviet Union
GDP   -   Gross Domestic Product
GOU   -   Government of Ukraine
IFC    -   International Finance Corporation
JSC    -   Joint Stock Company
MCI   -   Ministry of Coal Industry
M&E   -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE   -   Ministry of Economy
MOF   -   Ministry of Finance
NCB   -   National Competitive Bidding
PSC    -   Project Steering Committee
SA     -   Special Account
SOE    -   Statement of Expenditure
UDKR  -   Ukrainian State Company for Restructuring Coal
Industry Enterprises
UKRAINE - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UERALNE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    .........................................    i
I.  REFORM   OF THE  COAL  SECTOR  .................                                        ..1..................... 
A.  Economic and Sectoral Background    ........................    1
B.  The Government's Reform  Program    ........................   2
C.  Possible Operations in the Coal Sector .......................   3
II. SECTORAL ISSUES AFFECTING MITIGATION .....                                                ..................                               4
A.  The Coal Industry in a Changing Region   .....................    4
B.  Technical Issues  .....................................   5
C.  Divestiture of Social Infrastructure   .........................   7
D.  Labor Issues  .......................................    8
E.  Social Protection   ...................................    11
F. Budgetary Support   ..................................    11
G.  The Need for Effective Public Participation  ...................    12
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION, COSTS ESTIMATES, AND FINANCING  ................  13
A.  Objectives   .......................................    13
B.  Selection Criteria   ...................................    13
C.  Costs and Financing Plan  ..............................    14
D.  Project Components   .................................    17
1.  Mitigation of Mine Closure  ......................... ...                                             17
2.  Social Mitigation   ............................... ...                                               19
3.  Social Infrastructure Divestiture and Heating Subsidy   ........                             ...    27
4.  Institutional Strengthening and Job Counselling   ...............    28
5.  Technical Services   .............................. ...                                               29
E.  The Project's Impact on Local Governments   ..................    30
F.  On-lending Arrangements  ..............................    32
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS ........ ... 32
A.  Project Implementation Plan   ............................    32
1.  The UDKR                         ......................................                               34
2.  The Role of the Municipalities  ....................... ...                                           34
3.  Participatory Mechanisms and Evaluation  ...................    36
B.  Procurement and Disbursement   ..........................    37
C.  Accounting and Auditing   ..............................    40
D.  Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  .....................    40



ii
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................  41
Economic and Fiscal Analysis of Mine Closures ..................  41
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..............................  45
ANNEXES
1. Protocol of Discussions between the GOU and the World Bank in London,
January 16-19, 1996 on Reforms to the Coal Sector
2. Enactment of President of Ukraine on Coal Industry Restructuring
3. Pravda Mines -- Donetsk
4. Krasniy Oktyabr Mine -- Yenakievo
5. The Removskaya Mine -- Snezhnoye
6. Summary of Environmental Issues and Mitigation Options
7. Social Portrait of a Miner
8. At-Risk Populations
9. Impact on Municipal Budgets of Social Infrastructure Divestiture
10. Implementation Bar Chart
11. Order of Minister of Coal Industry Creating UDKR
12. U.K. Know-How Fund Terms of Reference for Assistance to UDKR
13. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
14. Supervision Plan
15. Cost-Benefit Tables
16. Role of UDKR, MCI, MOF, Oblast, and Municipalities
17. Terms of Reference for Social Impact Monitoring
18. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP                IBRD No. 27804
This report is based on an appraisal mission in January 1996, consisting of: J. Balkind (task
manager), S. Zeijlon (deputy task manager), K. Hunt (coal sector strategy), H. Hendriks
(technical), A. Staszewicz (labor/implementation aspects), M. Glasser (municipal finance/public
participation), B. McGean (social assessment), T. Cook (social assessment and stakeholder
analysis), P. Bodnar (divestiture of social facilities), and G. Pilch (legal). The peer reviewers
were A. Ewing (PSD) and J. Strongman (IEN). The Division Chief is T. Blinkhorn (EC4MS)
and the Department Director is B. Kavalsky (EC4).
Engineering analysis was provided by T. Hastelow (U.K.), labor analysis by B. Weston (U.K.)
and environmental analysis by G. Stephenson and J. Korol (Canada). Ms. T. Kanterman
provided staff assistant support. Organizations that participated in the project preparation include
the Ukranian Ministry of Coal Industry, the Donetsk Coal Mining Research Institutes, the
Donetsk Oblast Administration, and the three municipal and raion governments.
The report draws on the Bank's sector report "Coal Industry Restructuring", (Report No. 15056-
UA), which was discussed with the Government of Ukraine in January 1996 in London
(concurrent with visits to British coal mines). The sector report was distributed to the Board in
March 1996 and was disseminated in a Coal Conference, held in Kiev on April 11-12, 1996.



UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Ukraine
Implementing Agencies:     Ministry of Coal Industry (MCI); the Ukrainian State Company for
Restructuring of Coal Industry Enterprises (UDKR); Donetsk Oblast;
city administrations of Donetsk, Yenakievo, and Snezhnoye.
Affected Parties:          Employees of coal mines who are affected by the sector restructuring
program.
Poverty Category:         The project includes measures to reduce poverty in affected areas, and
to generate employment and income through a variety of measures,
such as micro-credit and job creation.
Amount:                    US$15.8 million equivalent
Terms:                     Payable in 17 years, with 5 years grace at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Commitment Fee:           0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:           Loan proceeds would be passed on to the UDKR and the local
governments on a grant basis, with the exception of the micro credit
component which will be on-lent to individual borrowers at interest
rates in accord with the Government's financial policy, taking into
account the National Bank of Ukraine discount rate, the administrative
costs and lending risk. The Government would carry the foreign
exchange and credit risk.
Project Objectives:       The central objective is to mitigate the social and environmental
consequences that arise from mine closures, as part of an overall
Government restructuring program for the sector. The project seeks
to: (i) test ways to implement mine closures safely, with due regard to
technical, environmental, economic, financial and social aspects; (ii)
ensure that mine workers are afforded opportunities to either transfer
to other jobs in the sector or exit the industry with reasonable
compensation and a choice of assistance for seeking other
employment; (iii) transfer social assets to municipal management and
support their rationalization, while helping to ensure that the most
vulnerable groups are adequately protected in terms of access to
services; and (iv) through monitoring and feedback, gain experience
from the Pilot Project for subsequent operations.



ii
Project Description:       (a) Mitigation of physical closure (environmental mitigation,
equipment and civil works); (b) social mitigation and re-employment
support (social protection payments, coal distributions, job creation,
and micro-credit subcomponents); social services support though the
transfer of assets to the municipalities (housing, kindergartens, cultural
facilities); institutional strengthening through support for the
incremental operating costs of the UDKR; and technical services
(including management of the mitigation program, feasibility studies
for new investment, and social assessment and monitoring/evaluation).
Financing Plan:            Bank loan would finance 55 percent of total project costs; Government
of Ukraine, 40 percent; and bilateral grants, 5 percent, for technical
services (see Schedule A).
Economic Rate of Return:    Economic rate of return (ERR) ranges from 20 percent to 90 percent
for the 3 mines, with an overall rate of 55 percent.
Environmental Category B:   Environmental Management Plan with site-specific mitigation
measures would be prepared.
Staff Appraisal Report      15351-UA
Map:                       IBRD 27804
Project ID Number:         UA-PA-441 10



UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. REFORM OF THE COAL SECTOR
A. Economic and Sectoral Background
1.1    The coal industry is in deep crisis in Ukraine. Between 1990 and 1995, coal output decreased
by about 50 percent to 80 million tons/year. The productivity of Ukrainian coal miners -- about 600
thousand workers employed directly in coal extraction -- is low, not only by international comparison
but even by historical Ukrainian standards. In the 1980s, domestically produced coal covered about
one-third of Ukraine's primary energy consumption, and was also one of Ukraine's major export
commodities. Coal exports almost totally disappeared in 1995, and imported coal and other fuels
captured a large share of the Ukrainian market as a result of high domestic coal prices, untimely
delivery, and poor coal quality.
1.2    Like any extractive industry, the Ukrainian coal industry must close mines when reserves
become exhausted. While a few mines have been closed in the past five years, this has not been
done in any concerted manner because of concern about throwing large number of miners (and related
service employees) out of work and depriving them of income and access to social services currently
provided by the coal enterprises. But the delay has had its cost: as a result, a significant part of the
coal industry is irreparably uneconomic. The resources required to keep these high cost mines in
operation could have been better deployed for the full utilization and modernization of the capacity of
lower cost mines that have a chance to remain competitive.
1.3    Due to high material, energy, and labor costs, the coal industry is unable to cover its
production costs. In addition to producing coal, the mining companies also deliver services including
pre-school education, housing, recreation, etc. Carrying the cost of these services further reduces the
competitiveness of Ukrainian coal mines. Payment arrears accumulated by many of the large coal
consumers further exacerbate financial difficulties, contributing to the inability of many mining
enterprises to pay salaries. The capacity and the willingness of the state to subsidize coal production
dropped to an all-time low by 1995, due to a general decline of budgetary revenues in a shrinking
economy, and the recognition by policy makers that further large-scale production subsidies
endangered the macroeconomic stabilization effort (see para 2.25).
1.4   In order to restore the competitiveness of the Ukrainian coal industry, average unit costs need
to be reduced by at least 20 percent. This will require, among other things, the closure of at least 75
high cost mines over a period of 4-5 years (the closure of these mines itself will reduce the average
unit cost by about 9 percent, with possible additional gains coming from the increased capacity
utilization of remaining mines). However, the social and environmental impact of the mine closures
needs careful mitigation measures because of the special historical and economic importance of the
sector.



2
1.5    Few countries in the Former Soviet Union (FSU) or Eastern Europe have implemented a
thorough restructuring of the coal sector, including price liberalization, market deregulation, closures
of old mines, and modernization of plant and equipment in profitable mines, to provide a framework
for competitive viability. Yet extractive industries need to close uneconomic operations on a regular
basis so that the viable segments of the industry do not get drained by the unprofitable ones. In April
1995, the Government of Ukraine (GoU) took the courageous decision to begin restructuring the coal
sector, initiating sectoral reforms, and starting a program of mine closures. Old, unsafe mines (about
40-70 in number) that have no economic future were targeted for closure, to free resources for the
segments of the industry that have better economic prospects (about 50 such mines). However, since
the mines to be closed -- like most enterprises in the FSU -- provide a range of social services, as
well as significant regional employment, the program needed to tackle the social aspects, along with
the technical aspects. In May 1995, the Government requested the Bank to assist in tackling these
issues in an integrated manner. The Bank embarked on the necessary analysis to help design an
approach that would help mitigate the social and environmental effects of mine closures.
1.6    The sector. The coal industry includes the following institutions:
*      the Ministry of Coal Industry (MCI);
-      39 mining associations, of which 24 are engaged in coal production and 15 in related
fields (3 in coal washing, 5 in mine construction and automation, 2 in mining
equipment repair, 3 in ecological and geological research, 1 in designing experimental
equipment, 1 specialized in shaft design and sinking);
3      244 mines, most of which are within the 23 production associations (each association
controls 8 to 16 mines);
e      related social assets (i.e. schools, housing, health facilities) and transport
organizations.
B. The Government's Reform Program
1.7    On January 19, 1996, the Government of Ukraine, in discussions held in London (in
conjunction with visits to British coal mines) laid out its reform program for the coal sector (Annex
1).' These reforms include:
(a)     Establishment of coal markets by providing enterprises the right to sell their coal at
prices freely negotiated with customers;
(b)     Corporatization of viable coal mines while transferring the mines identified for closure
to a newly created entity, Ukrainian State Company for Coal Restructuring
Enterprises (UDKR), entrusted with the management of the mine closure process;
1/ The agreed measures build on several previously announced Government programs, such as the "Program for the
Development of the Coal Mining Industry of Ukraine and its Social Sphere up to the Year 2005," and the list totalling 39
mines designated for closure beginning in 1995 and 1996, which was published in the Spring of 1995. The recent
agreements represent a more thorough reform of policy, and more rapid introduction of needed measures, at lower cost,
than the previous programs. This program was discussed with representatives from the mining industry as well as national
and local government officials at a conference held in Kiev on April 10-12, 1996. A decree of the President on Coal Sector
Restructuring is included as Annex 2.



3
(c)    Closure of uneconomic mines with the aim of minimizing the technical cost and the
time required for closure while taking into account the need to protect the
environment and the livelihood of people affected by mine closures;
(d)    Transfer of social assets and liabilities from the mining industry to local governments;
(e)    Development and implementation of programs to support the generation of
employment in regions or cities where major job losses occur as a result of mine
closures and the rationalization of employment in remaining mines;
(f)    Elimination of cross-subsidies between mining enterprises and allowing enterprises to
decide about the best use of their operating profits; and
(g)    Concentration of state support on covering the technical and social costs of mine
closures while relying on the banking sector to provide funds for commercially viable
investments.
1.8    These measures were incorporated in a Presidential Decree issued on February 10, 1996
(Annex 2). Consistent with the above program of reforms, several measures were taken in late 1995
and the beginning of 1996 that are crucial to the restructuring program. A new organization -- the
Ukrainska Derzhavna Kompania z Restrukturizatsii Pidpriemstv Vulhilnoi Promislovennosti or
Ukrainian State Company for Restructuring Coal Industry Enterprises (UDKR) -- was created to
manage the closure process. The closure program would encompass technical, social, and
organizational aspects, which UDKR would be responsible for handling, working closely with the
relevant municipalities.
1.9    UDKR reports to MCI and is funded directly from the State budget. The "Charter" of this
organization specifies that UDKR is required to close the mines as quickly and economically as
practical, so that it does not become a subsidized coal production company, competing with the new
joint stock companies (JSCs), which are intended to replace the coal production associations.
1.10   MCI's earlier plans for mine closure estimated the average time required for the closure of a
mine at three years, with a range of up to 13 years. The experience of other countries that have
closed uneconomic mines demonstrates that rapid closures with only a minimal recovery of old plant
and machinery is the most cost-effective approach; normally, this process should take no more than
12-18 months. For the Pilot Project, the preparation of physical closure plans (by local design
institutes) has been guided by the objective of cost minimization; other objectives such as job creation
and ensuring the continuation of essential social services have been addressed through separate
mechanisms in the project design.
C. Possible Operations in the Coal Sector
1.11   To assist the Government in tackling the extensive problems facing the coal sector, the Bank
prepared a sector study and is preparing three lending operations in FY96-98. These are the Coal
Pilot Project, a Coal Restructuring Project, and a Coal Sector Adjustment Loan.
1.12   Coal Pilot Project. In view of the many complex, partly unresolved technical and social
issues facing the policy makers in sector restructuring, the Bank and the Government agreed to begin



4
with a Pilot Project in which funding would be made available for mitigating the social and
environmental impacts of the closure of three mines. The mines are: Pravda2, Krasniy Oktyabr, and
Removskaya, all located in the heart of the coal mining region of eastern Ukraine (see map) and each
reflecting different economic and social conditions. The three mines currently employ about 4,700
workers. The criteria for selection are discussed in para 3.2, while Annexes 3-5 present the profiles
of the mines/towns. The project would give the Government valuable experience in implementing
mitigation measures, enabling a stronger design of the subsequent projects.
1.13   Coal Restructuring Project. To reduce the large subsidies from the national budget to the coal
sector, and to allow profiLable mines a chance to succeed, the Government decided to restructure the
sector, using a diverse program that includes policy reforms, closure of uneconomic mines, social and
institutional re-organization, and modernization of mines with strong economic prospects. The
Restructuring Project, as currently envisaged, would include mitigation of the social and
environmental impacts of the closure of more than 20 mines. The total costs of the Restructuring
Project would be about $120 million, with a possible Bank loan of about $80 million. Scope and
timing of the Restructuring Project will be influenced by progress in implementation of the Pilot
Project.
1.14   Coal Sector Adjustment Loan. In parallel, the Government has requested assistance for a
broader sectoral reform program, based on the action program elaborated in the Bank's sector report
and summarized in the London Protocol. This Protocol draws on the Bank report "Ukraine:
Restructuring the Coal Sector" which was distributed to the Board in March 1996. The Bank is
working on preparation of a coal sector adjustment loan (SECAL) to support the sector reform
program.
II. SECTORAL ISSUES AFFECTING MITIGATION
A. The Coal Industry in a Changing Region
2.1    Donetsk city, with a population of 1.2 million persons, is the capital of Donetsk Oblast (see
map) and one of 23 oblasts in Ukraine. Donetsk is the center of the Donbas region, a densely
populated industrial and mining belt measuring about two hundred kilometers across its north-south
and east-west extensions. The Donbas used to be the principal iron and coal region of the Soviet
Union, but the region is now in deep recession. Even before the break-up of the Soviet Union,
investment had moved to the lower cost, open-pit mines in Russia and Kazakhstan. Nearly all mines
in the Donbas region are deep seam mines, many of them 100 years old or more. In many mines,
reserves are virtually depleted and production figures per worker are among the lowest in the world.3
2.2    The Donetsk Oblast has a population of 5.27 million persons. The regional economy's
problems are typical of coal mining regions in other countries (U.K., France, Belgium, Poland to
2/ The full name of this mine group is: "Mine Named after the Newspaper Pravda."
3/ For similar reasons, there are also numerous unprofitable mines in the Dniepropetrovsk region in Central Ukraine, and,
in the Lviv - Volyn region in Western Ukraine.



5
name a few). The oblast used to be a center of economic activity, and attracted labor and investment
from across the former Soviet Union. However, the region has not kept pace with a dramatically
changed economic environment, and both surplus labor and deteriorated plants now contribute to the
region's economic ill-health. The coal mines are the most prominent illustration of the region's
problems: (i) the sector is severely overmanned, (ii) the capital stock is dilapidated, and (iii) there is
little new investment which could generate jobs elsewhere in the local economy. State enterprises
dominate officially recorded production; yet it is the unofficial economy which is providing modest
economic growth.
2.3    Regional economic development activities could help to reduce dependence on the coal sector,
but substantial new investment is needed. A more diversified economy would be the best hedge
against the ongoing contraction of the coal industry. Other regions in Ukraine are also struggling to
cope with the adverse consequences of industrial contraction (e.g. Temopil, Lviv, and Odessa).
These cities are taking an aggressive approach to marketing their regions nationally and
internationally, to attract new investment. Similar measures to increase labor mobility and job-
seeking could help stimulate regional and sectoral diversification in Donetsk (para 3.28).
B. Technical Issues
Physical closure
2.4    Mines close because of depletion of their mineral reserves or because the remaining reserves
have become uneconomic as a result of deteriorating geological conditions and more competitive
markets. Physical closure of an underground coal mine usually involves the following nine steps: (a)
arresting underground development work which would prepare new mine panels for coal extraction;
(b) mining out the prepared mine panels, if this low-cost operation can be economically justified; (c)
recovering equipment and materials, if there is a market for them, and if the prices paid by buyers
cover the costs of the recovery, including the extra cost of keeping the mine open longer; (d) sealing-
off galleries and other underground workings to the extent required for protection of neighboring
mines; (e) preparing the shafts for filling by removing obstructing installations; (f) filling the shafts
with rock normally taken from the waste dump of the mine; (g) installing a safe cover made of
reinforced concrete at the surface opening of the shafts; (h) dismantling and demolishing surface
installations and buildings; and (i) cleaning-up the surface area. During and after the closing period,
additional measures may be necessary to deal with gas and water emission from the mine.
2.5   In fast-track closure, extraction from prepared panels is not completed and recovery of
equipment and materials is minimized, in order to shorten the time and lower the high fixed costs of
mine ventilation, water pumping and general mine maintenance. At some mines, water pumping may
need to be continued temporarily to prevent flooding of the neighboring mines. Rapid closure has
been successfully applied in the U.K. and can be easily adopted in Ukrainian coal mines, from the
technical point of view.
Environmental Aspects
2.6    Environmental conditions (air and water quality primarily) in Ukraine's coal sector are similar
to the situation in several other coal mining countries. For example, environmental conditions in the
Donetsk area are less severe than in the North Bohemia coal field in the Czech Republic, the
Katowice coal field in Poland, the Jharia coal field in India, and the Shanxi coal field in China, but



6
worse than in Germany, Belgium and Hungary today. The present environmental situation in the
Donetsk coal fields is comparable to that which existed in the older underground coal fields of the
U.S.A. and the U.K. during the 1950s-60s.
2.7    The Bank has begun to examine the environmental laws, regulations and procedures, and
institutional capabilities in Ukraine with regard to closing of mines (the Pilot Project would expand
this work, and would monitor the consistency of Ukraine environmental standards with institutional
standards and their compliance). In closing mines, domestic design institutes mostly follow Ukrainian
procedures applicable for environmental and safety aspects while the Government supervisory
agencies, in theory, monitor the execution of environmentally acceptable closing plans (see below).
In practice, the agencies are short-staffed and under-trained.
2.8   In the past four years, due to insufficient funds available for investment and operation, the
environmental situation and safety conditions in the coal mining region have deteriorated markedly.
For example, life expectancy in the coal fields for underground workers (who are all male; women
work in occupations at the surface) is considered to be about ten years less than in other occupations
in Ukraine. Accidents resulted in 340 miners having lost their lives in 1995 in on-site or
underground mishaps. The three main environmental concerns are:
(a)    Contamination of ground and surface water due to on-going and past mining activities.
The mines in the Donbas area produce an average of 3 m3 of waste water for every
ton of coal produced. The salinity of this water ranges from as little as 30 mg/l to an
environmentally hazardous 4,000 mg/l or more. Discharge of this water has raised
salinity concentrations in some rivers to levels that severely limit use of the water for
water supply or irrigation. In some cases mine water is utilized to dilute municipal
waste water, including sewage, before disposal into the nearest river system;
(b)    Pyramidal piles of rock and waste material have formed at all underground mines.
On the surface of some piles, combustible material is starting a smoldering fire
through self-ignition. Noxious gases emitted may include carbon monoxide, hydrogen
sulphide and nitrous oxides, creating a health hazard for local inhabitants living down-
wind. Due to rain and erosion, rock masses may slide along the sides of the dump,
endangering property or individuals; and
(c)    Atmospheric pollution. Gases from burning dumps are perhaps the worst
contaminant. In addition, fine dust blown from waste and coal stock piles may result
in high levels of particulates.
2.9    Annex 6 contains a summary of environmental issues, mitigation measures, and a guide for
preparing an environmental management plan with site-specific mitigation measures. These plans will
be completed in the first stage of implementation of the Pilot Project by August 1996. Besides the
three issues discussed above, two other areas of concern are the surface strength of land above
shallow mine workings, and the potential emission of methane gas from abandoned mines. Paras
3.11-3.14 discuss the project's environmental mitigation measures.



7
C. Divestiture of Social Infrastructure
2.10   The coal industry owns and operates a wide range of social infrastructure (kindergartens,
houses, medical facilities, etc.). About 77,000 people (or about 8 percent of all employees) are
engaged in the operation and maintenance of these assets. The average cost recovery from the
beneficiaries of social services is only about 20 percent of actual cost, estimated with a range of 10-60
percent among production associations and variance according to the type of social assets. In 1995,
after deducting contributions from the beneficiaries, the cost of operating and maintaining these assets
was estimated to have totaled US$ 150 million, representing about 7 percent of total coal production
costs. The continued provision of these services by the mines would: (i) continue to divert the
attention of management from the key task of coal production; (ii) increase the cost of coal, thereby
reducing the competitiveness of domestic coal mining industry; and (iii) maintain the existing
inefficiencies in service provision. For these reasons, the Government decided to divest the social
assets and transfer the liabilities to local governments with some budget support.
2.11   The two basic methods to be applied in the divestiture of social infrastructure are the transfer
of the assets to local governments and privatization: (i) kindergartens would be transferred to local
governmenmt, in the context of city-wide programs of rationalizing their utilization; (ii) summer
camps, rest houses and vacation facilities would be privatized where possible; (iii) sport and cultural
facilities would be transferred to local governments, to be privatized at a later stage; (iv) profilactoria
(rest and recuperation facilities) and sanatoria would be rationalized and placed under existing medical
facilities operated by the regional and central government; and (v) housing stock would be transferred
to local governments, to be privatized later. Together with the housing stock, the infrastructure and
staff of the maintenance organizations and utilities would be transferred to local organizations.
2.12   On November 6, 1995 the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a resolution concerning the transfer
to "communal property" of enterprise housing stock.4 Under Ukraine's property laws, this transfer
means that the housing should be owned and managed by the municipalities in which it is located.
This policy is consistent with the recommendations above. Implementation of this policy will present
challenges: since centrally mandated user charges for housing and communal services are still below
production costs, municipalities will face increased operating deficits as they assume responsibility for
coal enterprises' housing stock. Nevertheless, budgeted increases in cost recovery on housing, to
between 60 and 80 percent of maintenance costs in 1996, will help alleviate this problem.
2.13   Another reason Ukrainian municipalities are reluctant to accept the transfer of mine-owned
housing is that they do not want to inherit the obligation to renovate this housing, which like much of
the rest of Ukraine's housing stock is long overdue for capital renovation. There is strong sentiment
among both the mine managers and among the city administrations that the Government should
provide for this overdue capital renovation in the context of the transfer from enterprises to
municipalities. There is a parallel sentiment that the long housing waiting lists should be consolidated
at the time of transfer. However, both the housing waiting lists and the overdue capital repairs stem
from a chronic lack of capital funds for housing investments. Even if the Government wanted to use
public funds to address these capital needs, the problems are not limited to the coal sector, and are
not likely to be resolved quickly, considering Ukraine's current financial situation. It is generally
4/ Resolution No. 891 of the Cabinet of Ministers of November 6, 1995, 'On transfer of enterprise housing stock to
communal property."



8
thought that housing privatization will need to proceed at its own pace, while specific interventions to
help provide an enabling environment for a future private housing market could help speed up the
process (e.g. the Ukraine Housing Loan, which was approved by the Board on March 14, 1996).
D. Labor Issues
2.14   The closure of uneconomic mines and the need to reduce costs in all mines after the industry
starts to operate competitively will significantly reduce the number of jobs available in coal
extraction. Perhaps half of the workers directly employed in coal extraction may have to leave the
industry over the next five years. Taking into account likely job reductions in other areas (e.g.,
washing plants, construction, and the social sphere), up to 300-400,000 workers may need to exit
from the coal industry over the medium term. This number represents the largest restructuring
programs ever attempted in Europe. This task is made more complicated by the high concentration of
mining activities in the Donbas region. Furthermore, the country and the mining industry have to
start this process in a period of extreme scarcity of financial resources and the lack of alternative
employment. Additional problems are an inadequate incentive framework for private sector
investment, lack of fiscal and policy decentralization (which would enable regional and local
authorities to develop imaginative programs to deal with their region's specific needs), and a general
lack of labor mobility.
Table 2.1: Employees in Coal Extraction
Employees in coal
Extraction
1990                         723,924
1991                         722,331
1992                         717,764
1993                         716,564
1994                         681,445
1995                         619,826
Source: Ministry of Coal
2.15   Natural attrition from the industry has been high in the last five years. In 1990, about 1.2
million (on average) workers were employed in the coal industry. In 1995, total employment dropped
to 1.0 million (on average). In the same period, total employment in coal extraction decreased by 14
percent from 724,000 to 620,000 (Table 2.1). Due to problems of chronic back-wages, aging mines,
poor physical conditions and general low morale, people are leaving the mines -- the employable
ones. Table 2.2 below shows the composition of the coal industry workforce in 1994 and 1995.



9
Table 2.2: Employees in the Coal Industry
Averages for 1994-95
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     .     . . .   .   . .   . ....... ..-
Number of Employees                               1994                   1995         1995 to 1994
% Cbange
Total in Production                              809,642                741,064           -8.5
Coal Extraction                                  681,445                619,826           -9.0
Breakage face workers (inc.)             85,400                 72,500            -15.1
Tunnellers                               51,800                 44,300            -14.5
Washing                                          26,920                 24,567             -8.7
Bricketting                                       2,132                  2,103             -1.4
Machine Building                                 67,485                 62,541             -7.3
Construction                                     11,123                  10,638            -4.4
Other                                            22,702                 21,389             -5.8
Total in Non-Productive Sphere Services          115,900                109,400           -5.6
OVERALL TOTAL                                    925,542                850,464           -8.1
Source: Ministry of Coal
Between 1994-95 total employment in the coal industry declined by 75,000 workers (on
average) or 8.1 percent. In the same period, the number of employees working directly in coal
production decreased by 8.5 percent or 68,578 workers (on average) .
2.16   In coal extraction, employment categories that experienced the greatest attrition/departures
were breakage face-workers (15 percent) and tunnellers (14.5 percent). Typically, these two
categories of miners include the largest number of young men under 40 years of age5. At the same
time, the production workers employed in bricketting show the lowest exit rate at 1.4 percent. This
group of workers is typically the smallest among the employees working directly in coal production.
However, their production for household heating needs is in high demand. In services (the so-called
"non-productive sphere") employment decreased at a rate of 5.6 percent (on average).
2.17   While there is a need for specific measures to mitigate the social impacts of restructuring, the
design of the measures needs to take into account macroeconomic and fiscal realities. The
Government can no longer afford to subsidize the industry by supporting money-losing mines. Old
mines (of which there are more than seventy) are incurring losses of $3-5 million per year on
average. This is a cost (direct or implicit) to the budget of some $300 million per year or about 0.5
percent of GDP.
2.18   Continued natural attrition should be the main method of job reduction. Based on the above
employment statistics, it appears feasible that many face workers could be redeployed at other mines,
5/ Data on coal mines of Ukraine collected by Agency for Regional Development in Donetsk.



10
provided that new recruitment is halted. There are likely to be additional costs of transferring
employees from one place of work to another, especially if the hiring mine is distant from the closing
mine.
2.19   However, many surface workers, especially women, are likely to become redundant. The
potential loss of employment in certain regions presents a fundamental concern. The most effective
measures to counter this threat are those that promise to help, over time, restore economy-wide
growth (i.e. further reduction of the budget deficit, monetary stability, liberalized trade regime,
transparent, predictable legal and regulatory framework, and promotion of the private sector). State-
imposed obstacles to labor mobility such as the propiska (a requirement that in order to reside in a
location one needs to obtain a permit based on having a job) should be removed. These measures can
help foster regional as well as national growth.
2.20   In the interim, special assistance efforts will be required to mitigate adverse labor and social
impacts, especially in the coal regions. Among the options to facilitate the expansion of employment
are: (a) public employment schemes to help the long-term unemployed; (b) cash incentives to firms to
hire ex-miners; (c) provision of credit for new business ventures; and (d) retraining programs for
displaced workers. Such measures would be essential, but it is also important to recognize that the
communities surrounding old mines typically have a high proportion of older workers and pensioners.
To the extent that they have been able, many of the younger people have left the area. Those
remaining are usually the more risk-averse, and thus generally less marketable employees.
2.21   In order to maximize the effectiveness of retraining programs, the workers will be able to
choose for themselves the kind of training they wish to receive, and to choose the kind of institution
(state or private) from which they wish to receive the training. Vouchers would be issued to ex-mine
workers (from the 3 mines under the Pilot Project) eligible for training. The vouchers would have
value, and eligible workers could "spend" them at State-run programs at private firms or institutes.
In effect, workers would "buy" the training they wanted. Both State and private schools would accept
vouchers in payment for training, and they would then receive reimbursement from the Employment
Fund. This would create competition among schools to offer programs that workers really want, and
new providers of training programs are likely to emerge to help meet the demand. Those institutes
that offer courses which trainees want, that teach courses well, and that help find jobs for trainees at
the conclusion of the training courses, would grow and expand.
2.22   In the past, the State made projections about labor market needs, 5 or 8 years in advance and
offered courses in professions that it believed would have been in demand in the coming year. This
centralized "manpower planning" approach has not succeeded in other countries, and most countries
outside the FSU and Eastern Europe have abandoned it. Experience shows that in a dynamic
economy, the State is not capable of guessing correctly what professions will be in future demand.
Individual workers making thousands of individual decisions can provide a dynamic economy with
much greater flexibility than centralized State decisions. The private sector is likely to account for
most future job growth in Ukraine, so the training that workers are likely to seek will be for jobs in
the private sector, rather than in the state enterprise sector.



11
E. Social Protection
2.23   The mine workers and their unions have stressed the need for adequate provision for social
protection of the workers. They believe any mine closure program must provide for coal distributions
and payments for compensation of damage6 to be continued from the national budget, rather than
from the associations or mines. The length of the mines' housing waiting lists (5 years on average) is
such that most workers are not likely to receive apartments; yet workers are nearly all housed, often
by doubling up. School facilities, profilactoria, sanatoria, and rest houses have traditionally been
provided by the mining associates. Union leaders have expressed concern that if these facilities are
transferred to municipal authorities without adequate planning, workers might no longer obtain access.
2.24   Up to one-third of the residents in some towns are pensioners. The retirement pensions for
mine workers are paid from a fund maintained by the city, with revenues received from payroll
deductions from mine enterprises. These revenues have essentially stopped, and some of the cities
are out of money in their pension funds. They have been receiving help from the oblast level pension
funds, but these too are being exhausted. Continuation of pension payments for retirees would
therefore be an important social protection measure, but as part of the national system of pensions and
social protection. As is often the case, older people on pensions and women appear to be among the
most vulnerable groups. Women occupy primarily clerical and administrative jobs connected with the
mines, and their reemployment possibilities are more limited. Another important feature of the social
protection system is the delivery of free coal to workers and pensioners associated with a given mine.
This heating subsidy is an important mitigation measure in the short-term.
F. Budgetary Support
2.25   The support for the coal industry was equivalent to 8.3 percent of total budgetary
expenditures, or about 4 percent of GDP in 1993, and 5.6 percent of budget expenditures or 3 percent
of GDP in 1994 (without taking into account household price subsidies but including credit
provided/guaranteed by the budget). In the revised budget adopted in mid-1995, Krb 20 trillion or
US$ 130 million equivalent of production/investment subsidies were allocated to the coal industry,
equivalent to less than 1 percent of GDP in 1995.
2.26   In view of the critical situation of the Ukrainian coal industry, most of the cost of
restructuring has to be borne by the national budget. However, it is important to channel budgetary
support in a way that minimizes the risk of distorting decisions about future production activities and
investments. In other words, the market rather than the government should decide allocation of
resources for coal production. This can be achieved if budgetary support is primarily aimed at
relieving the industry of unproductive expenditures.
2.27   Budgetary resources that support the operation and maintenance of social infrastructure should
be provided to the local governments. Assuming that (i) support from the central government budget
is gradually reduced over time; and (ii) cost savings from rationalization and privatization proceeds
are fully utilized to finance the rehabilitation of remaining assets, about US$130 million support from
6/ Under Ukrainian law, if an enterprise is liquidated, payment for damage to workers ("disability" payments) is to be
continued by the legal successor, the association or its successor.



12
the central government needs to be budgeted for 1996, US$90 million for 1997, and US$45 million
for 1998. Additional resources need to be provided to regions/cities where major job losses occur for
the retraining of workers and the establishment of funds that facilitate job creation (credit lines and
public employment programs). The necessary budgetary outlay for this purpose is estimated at
US$20 million per year.
2.28   All other budgetary support for restructuring should be channeled through the UDKR.
Assuming that, on average, about 15 mines will be closed annually in the 1996-2000 period, the
budget of the UDKR should be about US$130 million per year, consisting of US$50 million per year
to cover technical closure costs, US$15 million per year to cover environmental protection costs,
US$15 million per year for payments to cover the cost of transferring employees from the closing
mines to other mines, US$25 million per year for severance pay to workers who do not wish (or
cannot be) to be transferred; and US$25 million per year for disability payments and the provision of
coal to pensioners. The current Budget includes the following items for the coal industry: (i) Krb 51
trillion for technical reconstruction of the mines; (ii) Krb 27 trillion for mine closure and mitigation
of the social problems; and (iii) Krb 25 trillion for divestiture of social assets (industry-wide, not only
for the coal sector). This amounts to Krb 103 trillion or $570 million.
G. The Need for Effective Public Participation
2.29   Participation by affected parties ("stakeholders") is critical to help plan, refine and implement
the most effective strategy for closing individual mines and for restructuring the sector. Stakeholders
include managers in the coal industry, mine workers and families, pensioners, municipalities, the
Government of Ukraine, the UDKR, and political leaders at all levels. Each of these groups has a
stake in the design and implementation of the restructuring efforts as well as the social and
environmental impact.
2.30   Issues affecting coal mines and miners are politically very sensitive. For decades, miners of
the Donbas region were the mainstay of Soviet labor. In recent years, with the independence from
the Soviet Union and the shocks to the Ukrainian economy, the Donbas region went into severe
recession. Workers were often unpaid for months at a time, which made the task of consultation even
more difficult.
2.31   Over the past few years, there have been several labor marches on Kiev, organized by coal
union management seeking higher wages, payment of back-wages, and indexation of wages. At
times, these actions have resulted in the emission of credits for payment of back-wages. During a
large strike in February 1996, stoppages occurred at about 100 mines. Wage payments continue to be
late (34 months on average), although work stoppages have declined.
2.32   Although it is generally accepted that the mines slated for closure are at the end of their
economic lives, until recently there has not been a clear view among the Ministry of Coal Industry
and industry or the mine managers as to what should be done to offset the social impact of closure.
In the absence of a clear sectoral strategy and an effective public information program, many workers
believe that better management or new technologies will save their mines and thus their jobs. They
find it difficult to accept that the problems with the mines are severe and systemic, and to accept the
implication of this on their ability to keep their jobs.



13
2.33   Consultation with the miners and the unions has begun in earnest with the coal conference
held in Kiev in April 1996, and several local meetings at the three locations included in the project.
A number of union leaders are open-minded, realizing that change has to come. The Government is
involving both the oblast and the municipal authorities closely, with a view to facilitating the effective
transfer of social assets.
2.34   Those affected by the planned mine closures, including individual workers, unions, municipal
officials, and mine managers, need to be involved in the planning and implementation phases. Lack
of involvement and ownership could lead to misunderstanding and resistance. Thus, improving the
two-way information flow is a priority. Experience in other countries has shown that mine managers
and workers who have participated in designing the program, and feel some ownership of it, are
likely to be more helpful in implementing it. Thus, the interested parties will be given full
information, and will be encouraged to participate in the monitoring and evaluation of the Pilot
Project as it is implemented.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION, COSTS ESTIMATES, AND FINANCING
A. Objectives
3.1    The central objective of the project is to mitigate the social and environmental consequences
that arise from the Government's decision to close uneconomic coal mines, as part of Government's
overall restructuring program for the coal sector. The project seeks to: (i) test ways to implement the
Government's decision to close mines safely, with due regard to technical, environmental, economic,
financial and social aspects; (ii) ensure that mine workers are afforded opportunities to either transfer
to other jobs in the sector or exit the industry with reasonable compensation and a choice of assistance
for seeking other employment; (iii) transfer social assets to municipal management; support their
rationalization and help ensure that adequate social protection measures are put in place to support the
most vulnerable affected people; and (iv) through monitoring and feedback, gain experience from the
project for subsequent Bank assistance operations in the sector.
B. Selection Criteria
3.2    The three mines for the pilot project were selected based upon the following criteria: the
mines should present a mix of issues that the UDKR will face in closing other mines, i.e. simple
versus complex; different parts of the coal basin with different mining technologies and coal markets;
single industry town versus diverse town; and readiness of plans for closure. All three mines are
uneconomic, each is located in the Donetsk Oblast (which provides administrative simplicity) and all
three are considered by MCI and the Donetsk Oblast to be top priority for closure. The
characteristics of the mines are summarized in Table 3.1 and are discussed in Annexes 3-5.



14
Table 3.1: Mine Characteristics
PRAVDA            KRASNIY OKTYABR              REMOVSKAYA
1. Age Profile                 one of the oldest (about    medium-age (opened in    one of the younger mines
100 years)              1936)                    (opened in the late-1950s)
2. Coal Reserves               only uneconomic          no developed reserves    no developed reserves
reserves left
3. Production                  high ($50/ton)           very high ($70/ton),     high ($40 ton) low-grade
Costs/Competitiveness                                  steep seams              coal
4. Number of Collieries        multiple (three pits)    single pit              single pit
5. Surrounding                 nearby Donetsk - well    mid-sized town (small    small company mono
Economy/Community (labor       developed (other         machine shops)          industry (coal) town
absorption potential)          industries: metallurgy,
machine building)
6. Technical Difficulty of     multitude of small       water pumping for        none
Closure                        abandoned shafts         neighboring mines
7. How Long Has Mine Been   recent                      several years           recent
Under Consideration for
Closure
8. Size of Mine                medium (1,928 workers)  small-medium (1,485      small-medium (1300
workers)                workers)
C. Costs and Financing Plan
3.3     Table 3.2 summarizes the project costs. The financing plan (Table 3.3) shows that the
proposed Bank loan of $15.8 million would finance 55 percent of total project costs estimated at
$28.5 million; 100 % of foreign costs (of $2.4 million) and 51% of local costs. Proceeds of the loan
would be passed onto the UDKR to handle the physical closure of mines, including measures to
improve the surrounding environment. For the divestiture of social infrastructure, the funds would be
passed on by the National Government (Ministry of Finance) via the Donetsk Oblast to the municipal
administrations, upon certification of the incremental net operating costs of the transferred facilities.
Counterpart funds would be provided by the national Government (for such items as meeting
disability payments, retirement and other social benefits) and by the municipalities (in the form of
support for social infrastructure). The Government's share of the total costs is estimated at 40
percent. Bilateral grants are being sought to fund the technical assistance components.



15
Table 3.2: Project Components and Estimated Costs
(in $ millions)
Millions of US$            %          %
Forex      Base
Local    Foreign      Total                    Cost
A. Mitigation of Physical Closure             8.8         0.3          9.1           3          35
- environmenzal mitigation                    2.0                      2.0
- civil works                                 3.5                      3.5
- equipment                                   0.3          0.3         0.6
- operating costs during closure              3.0                      3.0
B. Social Mitigation                          9.0         0.5          9.5           5          37
- severance payments                          0.8                      0.8
- old age pension benefits                    0.7                      0.7
- disability payments                         2.6                      2.6
- unemployment benefits                       0.8                      0.8
- reemployment support                        2.4                      2.4
- micro credit                                1.5         0.5          2.0
- public works                                0.2                      0.2
C. Social asset Divestiture and Heating       4.8                      4.8           0          19
- kindergartens                               1.0                      1.0
- sport, cultural facilities, and profilactoria  0.6                   0.6
- housing and communal services               1.8                      1.8
- heating subsidy (coal distributions)        1.4                      1.4
D. UDKR Incremental Operating Expenses        0.9                      0.9           0          3
E. Technical Services                                      1.6         1.6         100          6
- physical closure                                        0.1          0.1
- management of the UDKR                                  0.2          0.2
- retraining                                              0.1          0.1
- environment                                             0.2          0.2
- feasibility studies for ongoing mines                   0.5          0.5
- regional economic development                           0.2          0.2
- public information strategy                             0.1          0.1
- social assessment                                       0.1          0.1
- workshops with affected parties                        0.05         0.05
- monitoring and evaluation plan                         0.05         0.05
- base costs                                 23.5         2.4         25.9           9          100
F. Contingencies                              2.4         0.2          2.6
- price                                       0.8         0.1          0.9
- physical                                    1.6         0.1          1.7
TOTAL                                        25.9         2.6         28.5           9
Price contingencies include country inflation and exchange rate estimates.



16
Table 3.3: Summary Financing Plan
(in $ millions)
WB       Government
Loan     of Ukraine    Other        Total
A. Mitigation of physical closure             7.1         2.0                     9.1
- environmental mitigation                    2.0                                  2.0
- civil works                                 3.5'                                 3.5
- equipment                                   0.6                                  0.6
- operating costs during closure              1.0         2.0                      3.0
B. Social Mitigation                          4.6         4.9                      9.5
- severance payments                                      0.8                      0.8
- old age pension benefits                                0.7                      0.7
- disability payments                                     2.62                     2.6
- unemployment benefits                                   0.8                      0.8
- reemployment support                        2.43                                 2.4
- micro credit                               2.04                                  2.0
- public works                               0.25                                  0.2
C. Social asset divestiture and heating       2.4         2.4                      4.8
- kindergartens                               0.5         0.5                      1.0
- sport, cultural facilities, and profilactoria  0.3      0.3                      0.6
- housing and communal services               0.9         0.9                      1.8
- heating subsidy (coal distributions)       0.76         0.7                      1.4
D. UDKR incremental operating expenses        0.3'        0.6                      0.9
E. Technical Services                         0.3                      1.3         1.6
- physical closure                                                     0.1         0.1
- management of the UDKR                                              0.28         0.2
- retraining                                                           0.2         0.2
- environment                                                          0.1         0.1
- feasibility studies for ongoing mines       0.3                      0.2         0.5
- regional economic development                                        0.2         0.2
- public information strategy                                          0.1         0.1
social assessment                                                    0.1          0.1
- workshops with affected parties                                     0.05        0.05
- monitoring and evaluation plan                                      0.05        0.05
Base Costs                                   14.7          9.9         1.3        25.9
F. Contingencies                              1.1          1.5                     2.6
TOTAL                                        15.8        11.4          1.3        28.5
% share                                    (55.4)       (40.0)       (4.6)       100.0
1/ Excluding civil works to expand water pumping in neighboring mines.
2/ Disability payments of $400 per year per invalid (2,170 persons).
3/ $600 paid to: self-employed workers or their new employers. Assumed payments would cover 4,000 employees.
4/ Assumes 400 loans averaging $5,000 each.
5/ $70,000 per municipality for wages for public works for environmental improvements.
6/ Free coal distribution (6 tons per year at $36/ton) to approximately 4,850 eligible workers and 4,450 pensioners (9,300
persons in total). Bank disbursements on declining scale (see Table 4.3).
7/ Assumes a budget of $300,000 per year for 3 years, with Bank financing on a declining scale (see Table 4.3). Includes
Ukrainian job counselors (3 people for 12 months) to be trained abroad.
8/ The UK Know How Fund has expressed strong interest to assist the UDKR's institutional program.



17
D. Project Components
3.4    There are five project components, which would serve as the basic framework for mitigation
initiatives in subsequent sector operations requested by the Government. These are:
1 .    Mitigation of Mine Closure
(a) physical closure
(b) environmental mitigation
2.     Social mitigation
3.     Social infrastructure divestiture
4.    Institutional strengthening and job counselling
5.    Technical assistance
Each of these components is summarized below.
3.5    Closure Plan. The key aspects of the closure plans for the three mines are outlined in Box
4.1. These plans would include mitigation of physical, environmental and social aspects. Adoption
of a specific plan for each mine would be a condition of disbursement for physical works at that mine
(para 6.4 (i)). These aspects are discussed below.
1. Mitigation of Mine Closure
A. Physical Closure
3.6    This component involves carrying out civil works and procurement of equipment to enable
safe mine closures (including filling and capping of shafts, demolition of surface buildings, limited
regrading, and pumping of water where necessary).
3.7    The three mines are simple with few technical closure problems and with low gas levels in the
general body of mine air (0.3 to 0.5%). The shaft fill could be obtained from the spoil tips or
processed rubble from the surface demolition. The shafts are 50-100 years old. All three mines have
been poorly maintained. They have small and simple surface installations with no substantial
structures. The winding gear and head stocks are made of brick and steel construction, and are
similar in scale to those at the smallest mines in Western Europe. Little preparation work is required
before filling and capping of the shafts.
3.8    The project will finance the purchase of equipment necessary to effect closure at the three
mines, and an allowance for non-productive operation of support systems (e.g. pumps, ventilation,
and shaft hoists) during the shaft preparation and filling period.
3.9    The physical mine closing would occur in four stages:
Stage 1: The closure is designed. This step has been essentially completed for all three
mines.
Stage 2: Coal production is arrested and men and equipment (to the extent economically
justified) are removed from underground. This stage is on-going. It ends on the
closure date (full cessation of these activities).



18
Stage 3: Shafts are filled and capped, and surface buildings demolished. This stage begins
immediately after the closure date and should be completed 6 months later.
Stage 4: The environmental impact of the closure is monitored and further mitigated as
required. This stage may include water and methane gas monitoring and re-shaping
and revegitation of spoil heaps. There is no time limit to this stage.
3.10   The total cost of physical closure at the three mines is estimated at $9.1 million, which is
about equal to what was incurred in the U.K., France, and Belgium ($3 million per mine). The
estimates have been lowered from the original Ukrainian plans by adopting a "fast track" approach
that does not provide for much salvage of dilapidated equipment and materials. Most of the machinery
and rail equipment underground is in very poor condition and does not warrant being reclaimed. The
main electrical machinery is serviceable and, if appropriate economically, will be salvaged and
deployed in other mines.
B. Environmental Mitigation
3.11   The project is rated "B". A check list of guidelines for preparation of the environmental
mitigatior; plans for the mines has been formulated (Annex 6). These guidelines are broad in
coverage and much of it could usefully apply to the sector as a whole. After approval of the physical
closure plan by the Donetsk Oblast Department of Environment, an Enviromnental Management Plan
(EMP) with site-specific mitigation measures would be prepared, with technical assistance to be
financed by grant funding. The EMP will identify the site specific environmental issues associated
with the physical closure plan, mitigating measures, and a monitoring program to assure compliance
with the mitigation program. In addition, institutional responsibilities will be identified for
implementation of both mitigation and inventory programs respectively, as well as associated costs. It
has been estimated that US$100,000 would be required to implement the EMP, and this amount has
been included in the project cost. Implementation of the physical closure plan is contingent upon
Bank approval of the EMP.
3.12   The closure of the three mines should not increase the environmental problems of the coal
fields, and would in fact avoid additional pollution associated with ongoing mine operations.
Pertinent issues are: (a) safety risks posed by abandoned shafts and audits; (b) safety risks and visual
annoyance posed by decrepit industrial structures on the mine's surface; (c) fumes from smoldering
fires in one of the waste piles (at Removskaya mine in Snezhnoye); (d) safety risks from methane gas
escaping from old mine workings (mainly at Krasniy Oktyabr mine in Yenakievo, though to a lesser
degree also at Pravda mine in Donetsk); (e) possible land subsidence (minor shifts in land levels) after
the mine's closure; (f) rock waste dumps occupy potentially usable land and are considered to be an
eyesore; (g) the tailings pond from the washery at the Removskaya mine could have affected the
surface and subsurface water quality; and (h) minor groundwater pollution may have occurred because
of improper disposal of oil and grease from workshops associated with the mine.
3.13   At the Krasniy Oktyabr and the Pravda mines, there exists a limited risk of gas seepage from
the abandoned mine workings to the surface after mine closure. The design institutes are aware of this
risk and have carefully identified all possible areas where such seepage could occur. These areas will
be monitored in the post-closure period. Should seepage occur, the safety risks can be mitigated by
drilling gas release boreholes, in line with international practice.



19
3.14   The environmental management plans will provide, inter alia, for the following mitigation
measures: all shafts and openings will be filled with rock and permanently sealed off at the surface;
unsafe industrial surface structures will be levelled, and rubble and scrap removed; ground water will
pumped; and the fire at Removskaya will be extinguished. After closure, the sites will be monitored
for methane emissions and ground subsidence. Under the project, technical assistance will be
provided for possible longer term environmental improvements, such as improving the slopes of
terracones and examining whether the sites could be used for alterative purposes for future use, and
for remediating any surface or ground-water impacts if needed. The costs of such mitigation
measures would be borne by UDKR.
2. Social Mitigation
3.15   The social mitigation package under the project consists of the following measures:
(a)    Severance payments, pension payments. disability payments, unemployment benefits,
and other social protection benefits to be provided by the GOU in accordance with
current Ukrainian laws (see para 3.23);
(b)    Re-employment support would be offered for workers in closing mines (para 3.24 -
3.31);
(c)    Micro-credit funded by the Bank loan through an appropriate agency selected by the
GOU on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The agency would make
small sub-loans available to entrepreneurs, to be lent at interest rates that takes into
account the National Bank of Ukraine discount rate. This program would be managed
by a suitable agency in accordance with an agency agreement between the agency and
the Government: the agency agreement would contain terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank under which the agency would lend small loans to enterprises
or individuals who present sound business plans for investment and working capital in
the region of mine closures. Applicants for subloans could be former coal mine
employees, as well as other persons in the area of the mining communities who are
setting up small businesses (paras 3.32 - 3.38);
(d)    Public works. Assistance would be provided in carrying out a small public works
program to be undertaken by the municipalities in which the three mines are located
($70,000 per city). Such works could include repair of roads, communal services,
and environmental improvements at the project sites or the adjacent towns (Annexes
3-5 provide more information on site-specifics). During the Project Launch
Workshop mission, the Donetsk Oblast (and the municipalities) is expected to submit a
plan of the criteria for selection of the public works for enviromental improvements in
the areas affected by the project.
3.16  In order to design the package, the profile of the workers had to be obtained. Mine workers
fall into four main categories, though these could be further subdivided:
*     underground skilled workers who work the face of the coal seam;



20
*      other underground workers, including tunnellers, drifters, transport and service
personnel;
*      surface workers associated with the mine operation (technical and administrative); and
*      workers associated with other operations supported by the coal industry, such as
housing, kindergartens, and other social infrastructure.
3.17   There is demand for some of the underground workers at other mines. The housing and
kindergarten workers would be transferred to the municipalities, along with the social infrastructure
they service, and thus would be employed for at least part of the time. Surface workers face the most
difficulty in seeking new employment and many of them are women. They are engaged in office
work and mine maintenance, but are not directly linked to production.
3.18   To arrive at an appropriate design for, and to estimate the cost of social mitigation measures,
it was necessary to estimate the projected unemployment from the closure of the three pilot mines.
To do this, the employees were disaggregated into four risk groups as shown in Table 3.4 and in
Annex 8. The "highest risk" and "high risk" categories include the surface workers, divided
according to occupation and reliance on a single income (women, single heads of households with
children). The "at risk" and "at risk - mobile" categories include underground workers, divided
according to occupation and perceived demand at other mines.
Table 3.4: Unemployment Projections
number of      category          number of          aggregate
employees      % unemployed    unemployed           % unemployed
MIDDLE CASE
Highest risk                     239             95%              227
High risk                       1435             90%             1292
At risk                          391            65%               254
At risk - mobile                2808            53%              1474
Total                           4873                             3247              66.6%
BEST CASE
Highest risk                     239             90%              215
High risk                       1435            85%              1220
At risk                          391            40%               156
At risk - mobile                2808            20%               562
Total                           4873                             2153              44.2%
MOST DIFFICULT
Highest risk                     239            100%              239
High risk                       1435            95%              1363
At risk                          391            90%               352
At risk - mobile                2808            85%              2387
Total                          4873                              4341              89.1%
This table, taken from data/interviews at Removskaya mine, provides estimated unemployment during two years into the
closure period.



21
3.19    Fifty-three interviews were conducted with workers in each of the four risk categories at each
mine. In addition, interviews were conducted with local offices of the Employment Service, mine
managers, labor unions, and local and regional government officials.
3.20    There is no clear consensus on how many workers will be able to find new jobs in the next
two to three years. The scenarios presented in Table 3.4 represent a range of possible unemployment
outcomes six months to two years after mine closure. It may be that the three mines in the pilot will
correspond to some extent with the three risk scenarios presented: i.e. Donetsk (Pravda mine) is
likely to be the best case, while Snezhnoye (Removskaya mine) is likely to be close to the most
difficult case7. For the purpose of cost projections, the middle case was used. Close monitoring of
re-employment outcomes during the Pilot Project will provide valuable information for planning
subsequent operations.
3.21    A fundamental problem common to all FSU countries is the lack of labor mobility. This is
particularly severe in the coal sector, where most of these workers are deeply identified with their
community. They and members of their families have sometimes lived in these settlements and
worked at the mines for generations. They are dependent on the mines not only for employment, but
also for coal and other forms of social protection. Few of the workers have any clear idea as to how
or where to look for a new job, let alone start any kind of small business. They have no real
experience of a market economy, and little concept of alternatives. They hope that if the mines are
closed, the Government will start new mines or some other enterprise to employ them. The towns of
Yenakievo and Snezhnoye (60 - 100 km from Donetsk) are physically and economically remote,
aggravating the lack of labor mobility.
3.22    Consequently, the most important feature in the project revolves around the social protection
package for the workers. Measures are geared towards assisting affected workers to find alternative
employment and meet their basic living needs. Thus, the package designed for the 3-mine Pilot goes
well beyond the significance of only this project. It tests a model of how the balance between fiscal
affordability and social justice could be achieved and handled in the future.
3.23    Under the project, all benefits due to workers under the law would be met by the
Government. Redundant miners and other workers at the mines are entitled to the following benefits
under the laws of Ukraine:8
7/ The city of Snezhnoye's economy is overwhelmingly dependent on its mines, including the Removskaya mine. The
miries have historically employed generations of workers and multiple wage-earners in a single household. Snezhnoye is
remote (2-hour ride from Donetsk) and has poor roads and occasional public transport between mine settlements surrounding
the city. The manager at the Removskaya mine estimates that only 200 to 250 of his most skilled underground workers can
be redeployed to other mines. By contrast, the city of Donetsk, where the Pravda mines are located, offers better prospects.
Over the past 18 months, according to independent trade union officials at the mine, half the employees have left
voluntarily. The director of the mine estimates that 45 to 50% of those remaining can be reabsorbed in the industry. At
least 5 to 10% more will likely find work in or near Donetsk. The city of Yenakievo, where Krasniy Oktyabr is located,
falls between these two extremes. It is a 90-minute ride from Donetsk and is more economically diverse than Snezhnoye.
8/ These benefits, in principle, are available to all workers who become unemployed. However, few are receiving them,
according to official data.



22
*     Severance Pay. For the first 3 months of unemployment, laid-off workers will
receive severance pay at the rate equal to their previous monthly salary. The
severance payments will commence on date of termination.
*     Unemployment Benefits. After the first 3 months of unemployment, those actively
seeking work will receive unemployment benefits for 9 months. Unemployment
benefits are equal to 75% of their average wage and reduced to 50% after the second
3 months of unemployment. Those laid-off miners with less than two years before
retirement age, will receive unemployment benefits for 15 months. Unemployment
benefits are covered from the national fund financed from a 2% payroll tax. The
benefits are not paid to those with pension or other income exceeding the minimum
wage.
3.24   Under the project, job creation incentives equivalent to expenditures of $600/worker will be
included for ex-miners and other workers associated with the three mines who find jobs with private
finns, or who undertake their own jobs through setting up new economic activities. The type of jobs
that have been typically created in coal mining regions in other countries are construction, auto
repair, electrical repairs, bakeries, small flour mills, etc. These jobs utilize skills found among
miners and surface workers and, with some retraining, workers have proven to be able to find jobs.
What is needed, however, is the active partnership of the Donetsk Oblast and the three municipalities
in designing job creation schemes. The Oblast and the municipalities have agreed to jointly work out,
with the help of UDKR, a job creation program for ex-mine workers. The project will test different
approaches/solutions with the central premise that all jobs need to be: (i) competitive in the
marketplace; (ii) outside existing state enterprises; and (iii) outside existing mines, as there is excess
labor in those mines (other than face workers).
3.25   The job creation would take the form of re-employment support payments made directly to
new or existing employers of ex-mine workers. Payments would be made to employers (not other
mines) who hire workers who have been laid-off at the 3 mines, or those who have exited from those
mines to launch self-employment activities, or who have undertaken training programs.
3.26   Annex 7 presents data obtained by the Agency for Regional Development and Social Studies
of Donetsk; the report is entitled "Social Portrait of a Miner". It collaborates a similar report
conducted by the Russian Institute of Comparative Labor Relations entitled "Residents of Miners'
Settlements and Problems of Coal Sector Restructuring". Both reports show unemployment to be
much higher than the number registered with the official Employment Service. Only a small
percentage of those unemployed seem to seek work through official channels. Women appear to be
much harder hit by unemployment than men, because they work primarily as middle managers,
administrators, and accountants, rather than directly in the mines. While some miners can transfer to
a new mine, administrative jobs do not usually transfer when a mine is closed.



Figure 3-1
Government of Ukraine Severance Pay, Unemployment Benefits, and Project Re-employment Support Program
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE
Month I                                  ran 
equivalent to 3 months                    BANK LOAN
Month 2                                   pay                  LOA
Support for re-employment payments:
Month 3               ............................. sequivalent to US$600 per job
would be paid paid to:
(i) workers from the 3 mines;
Month 4                                                             (ii) workers who have undertaken
training in search of other jobs;
(iii) new employers who
Month 5                                                                   hire such workers;
(iv) existing employers
Month 6                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~who hire such workers.
Month 7
paid for 9 month sJ
\(xludes pensiones 
Month 8
Month 10
Month 10
Month 12   .        ..........         ...   .



24
3.27   Only 4% of the Russian workers surveyed (and only 2% of the miners) indicated they would
like to set up their own businesses. As revealed in rapid assessments recently done in Ukraine, this
lack of entrepreneurial inclination is also typical of mine workers in Ukraine. It was a significant
issue even in Great Britain, where the commercial and legal infrastructure to support small businesses
is well-developed. The Russian survey showed that being in "business" carries a significant stigma to
the miners (74% of those interviewed in Kiselovsk indicated they would never engage in business
under any circumstances), especially among older people. This stigma, added to a lack of supporting
infrastructure, poses a significant barrier to new business creation.
3.28   Job Creation Potential at the Regional Level. The project is focused upon the Donetsk Oblast
for several reasons: (i) it is the traditional center of the donbas coal mining region; (ii) the Oblast
ranks among the top in terms of small-scale privatizations achieved in 1995, as shown below, and is
consequently seen as a region that will actively seek to absorb workers from the mining industry into
other economic activities; and (iii) it is the location of more than a dozen coal mines that need to be
closed over the next few years and therefore the Oblast Government has taken a pro-active stance in
assisting the restructuring of the industry.
3.29    The ability of the regional economy to absorb employees who leave the coal industry or are
made redundant through closings and consolidates, will be particularly dependent on the progress of
reforms in the Donetsk, Lugansk, Volyn and Dniepropetrovsk oblasts, where most of the mines are
located. Tables 3.5 and 3.6 below show the comparative experience of four oblasts (as well as
nationally) in assisting privatizations and in attracting foreign investment.
The number of privatized units has increased more rapidly and the pace quickened faster in
the Donetsk oblast than in the three other oblasts mentioned.
Table 3.5: Privatization Experience
Number of Enterprises Established
C                  Small-Scale               Medium and Large-Scale
1995                 1995               1993-95
National                     13,100                3,121               3,962
Lugansk                       399                  106                  139
Donetsk                      1,780                 349                  430
Volyn                         299                   58                   76
Dniepropetrovsk               1,198                243                  251
3.30   Small scale businesses have been growing quite rapidly in the Donetsk region. At the end of
1993, there were 10,000 such units (defined as up to 200 employees for industry and 25 employees
for non-industrial activities, and 15 employees in the case of retail trade) employing 134,700 people.
By October 1995, the number of units had grown to 11,900 employing 130,000 persons (average
number of employees equals 12).



25
Table 3.6: Foreign Investment
city              Number Or Eutexprises             Volume d ilm)*
Jan. 1995    Jan. 1996   Jan. 1994       Jan. 1995    Jan. 1996
National                   2123          3842         219.4         483.5        750.1
Lugansk                     45            61           15.5          19.1         23.2
Donetsk                     142           169          5.7           60.7         69.8
Volyn                        13           44           0.6           2.2           3.3
Dniepropetrovsk       F    166            224          18.6          43.4         63.1
* Amounts show investment approvals, not implementation. A majority of these projects have yet to be completed.
3.31   Despite good progress in 1995, there is much scope to speed up both private sector
development and privatization in Donetsk city and in the surrounding towns. Current policy does
encourage the establishment of new businesses, and the Oblast Government has begun a campaign to
stress that those previously engaged in coal mining could find alternative economic activities if micro
credit were made available. The Oblast Government maintains a Market Relations Development
Division within its Economic Department, one of whose functions is to assist small businesses in
registration and start-up; it provides information on procedures and facilitates new ventures.
3.32   In Donetsk Oblast, as in most of Ukraine, one obstacle cited by people wishing to establish
small businesses is that it is very difficult to comply with official registration procedures. Having
done so, small firms find it virtually impossible to get credit. Tax rates can stifle reinvestment of
eamings. One proven means of creating jobs and earnings for poor people, particularly women, is to
facilitate micro-enterprise development. This can be done through provision of carefully supervised
micro-credit, and by making the establishment of micro-enterprises a simple and fair procedure.
3.33   The Donetsk Oblast has developed a record of pro-active support or encouragement of private
businesses. The Oblast plans to create "one-stop shops" where micro-businesses can quickly be
registered, and basic information useful to businesses could be given out. Initially, three such
"shops" would be established in the vicinity of the closing mines. Simplification of inspection
procedures (such as for fire and health safety standards), and reduction of the required frequency of
permit renewal is being undertaken in tandem. Currently, small commercial establishments can be
subject to several inspections a month, and be required monthly to renew permits to sell certain
products. To help meet the impact of closures, the three municipalities are all establishing "business-
friendly environments" that could utilize the skills of ex-miners.
3.34   The Bank loan would help to cover the initial funding for micro-credit lending to small
businesses and entrepreneurial activities in the project areas. The program would enable applicants to
receive loans, if they provide business plans with sound financial prospects. Assistance in drawing up
the business plans, and supervision of the loans, would be provided by a suitable lending agency.
The business plans would not need to be as detailed as those used by the Business Development
Office in Luhansk supported by IFC and the U.K. Know-How Fund for larger business loans.



26
Provision would be made for cross-fertilization between the Project's offices and the IFC/U.K. Know-
How Fund office in Luhansk. The micro-credit loans would not be limited to ex-mine employees, but
would be open to all applicants in the three local communities.
3.35   Criteria for Selecting a Suitable Micro-credit Agencv. Two possibilities exist for providing
the micro-credit financing:
(i)    using a financial institution that already exists in Ukraine with experience in providing
such credits; the institution might need a small amount of technical assistance to
deliver such specialized operations; or
(ii)   using a non-governmental institution (NGO) with such experience. A few such NGOs
are active in Ukraine (e.g Western NIS-Fund that is accredited to lend), but
experience is limited and little has been lent in the small-scale area. The agency would
need to asses the commercial and economic viability of applicants and be able to
monitor the use of any credits. In some FSU countries, the NGOs have teamed up
with partner banks to perform the financial transactions.
3.36   Whichever the type used, the microcredit agency would need to be able to demonstrate that it
can meet the following performance standards:
*     a good financial standing as well as performance without losses or subsidies (i.e have
a viable credit portfolio) and be able to extend loans at interest rates that cover the
administrative and financial costs of credit;
*     capacity to do business planning, including provision of micro-credit services in the
Donetsk Oblast and the marketing of such services;
*     capacity to expand its micro-credit services, including to maintain ability to supervise
and check progress in making credit, appropriate system of operations, management
operations system, financial flexibility and capacity to quickly make decisions on
providing microfinancing;
*     experience in delivering small loans to small-scale businesses, especially new entrants,
including providing credits on the basis of business plans, evaluation of cash flows,
and project proposals, and using collateral (through partner banks if need be) to cover
credit risk.
3.37   These criteria were discussed during negotiations. It was agreed that the interest rate payable
by the individual borrowers should be determined in accordance with GOU's financial policy, and
take into account the National Bank of Ukraine discount rate (currently 75 percent per annum, having
been lowered from 90 percent on April 1, 1996 and 85 percent on April 8, 1996) and the
administrative costs and lending risk.
3.38   Regarding the demand for credit, it is likely that over the three years of the project
implementation, some 400 small loans of around $5,000 each could be extended, or an amount of $2
million. This has been included in the Bank loan amount and would be treated as seed capital for a
revolving fund which over the life of the Bank loan could benefit many more than the initial 400 sub-



27
borrowers (assuming sub-loan maturities of say 3 years). Other terms and conditions of the on-
lending, and selection criteria, would be developed in conjuction with the selection of the fiscal agent.
Conclusion of a satisfactory Fiscal Agency Agreement, as well as agreement on eligibility criteria,
would be a condition of disbursement of this component of the Bank loan (para 6.4 (iii)).
3. Social Infrastructure Divestiture and Heating Subsidy
3.39   Divestiture of social infrastructure would involve financing of additional expenses incurred by
municipalities for taking over operation and maintenance of housing, kindergartens and other social
assets from the three closing mines. Such expenditures would be supported by the Bank loan (under
the Project) on a declining scale over the next three years. For the first year, the support would be
75% of net expenditures, for the second year 50%, and for the third year 25%. Annex 9 shows the
financial data for the social facilities at the 3 mines and the impact on the three municipal budgets in
question.
3.40   The estimated financing for the housing component by the Bank loan (under the Project) is
approximately $0.9 million under a three year sliding scale. Housing waiting lists of the mines to be
closed would be merged with the housing waiting lists of the appropriate municipal authorities (the
cities of Yenakievo and Snezhnoye and the Proletarsky Raion of Donetsk).
3.41   The project would include financing for a portion of the operating costs of the nine
kindergartens, cultural facilities, sports facilities, and profilactoria that are currently operated by the
three mines in the Pilot Project. These are considered essential services to the community and should
continue to operate during the transitional period. Under the Project, and in accord with national
policy, the social facilities would be transferred to the municipalities, who will have full responsibility
for their operation and maintenance. There is an evident scope for making these facilities more
efficient with higher enrollment rates (fewer facilities). The project would finance a sliding scale of
current outlays (75 percent of net operating costs less user fees in the first year, 50 percent in the
second year, and 25 percent in the third year). The municipalities will need to implement a program
of rationalization to reduce the operating costs and achieve greater cost recovery and to bring the
transferred social facilities in line with municipal standards. The estimated total financing for the
other social infrastructure is approximately $300,000, under the same three year sliding scale.
3.42   For the towns of Yenakievo and Snezhnoye, the city administration would be responsible for
transferred social assets. For the city of Donetsk, which is divided into raions, the Proletarsky Raion
would be responsible (except for housing, which would be managed by the city of Donetsk). The
Govermnent would reimburse these municipal authorities for a portion of their increased operating
costs resulting from this transfer (less revenues from user fees). The declining reimbursement scale
provides time and incentive for: (i) rationalization of operations; and (ii) increases in user fees to cost-
recovery levels (taking into account the Government's targeted housing subsidy program and other
programs for assisting the most disadvantaged segments of the population). A condition of
disbursement will be that the Government will conclude a Subsidiary Grant Agreement with the
Donetsk Oblast, which would include procedures to transfer the social facilities to the three
municipalities (para 6.4 (iv)).
3.43   Heating Subsidy. For many years the mining communities and pensioners have received free
coal (6 tons a year delivered to the homes four times during the year) to heat their houses. The coal
comes from the producing mines, which are now being closed. Interviews conducted by the Bank in
the homes of affected parties revealed that the areas of most concern were: (i) jobs, (ii) the houses



28
they live in; and (iii) the ability to heat houses in very cold winters.9 Few of the houses have any
district heating and depend entirely on coal for heat and cooking fuel. Consequently, as one of the
critical social mitigation measures, the project includes provision for the UDKR to provide a heating
subsidy by procuring 6 tons of coal per family and delivering it to the affected parties. As shown in
Table 3.3, the workers and pensioners (who currently also receive the coal) number 9,300 persons
(4,850 persons currently working at the 3 mines, and 4,450 pensioners also receiving the coal
subsidy).
3.44   The coal distributions under the project would take place in accordance with operational
guidelines to be adopted by the UDKR. It is expected that the UDKR will distribute the coal to each
person who fits the following criteria: an employee, pensioner, disabled former employee, or member
of the immediate family of a former employee who was killed in a mining accident at one of the three
project mines; in the case of an employee, such employee is not re-employed by another coal mine;
and continuing to live in the same residence in the same municipality as before the mnine closure, said
residence being one where burning coal provides the only form of heat. At the end of the first year,
the subsidy will be reviewed as to the viability of converting it to cash, or phasing it out.
3.45   The funding of the coal distribution program would be on a declining basis, in the same
formula as used for the kindergartens, i.e. (75, 50 and 25 percent the first three years). Criteria to
evaluate the continued need for the subsidy would be: (i) the ability of the UDKR to handle the coal
deliveries; (ii) the cost of the coal provided; and (iii) whether the coal was effectively delivered to the
families and used appropriately (i.e. not resold). The alternative of "cashing out" the mitigation
measure i.e. letting farnilies buy their own coal if funding were provided, would be studied. Project
implementation would include spot checks to monitor progress in this area. The UDKR would
include the costs of coal purchases and delivery in its annual operating budget.
4. Institutional Strengthening and Job Counselling
3.46   The Bank loan would support the incremental operating costs of the UDKR, on a declining
basis. This is discussed in paras 4.1 - 4.4. To assist in the job search and to provide advice as to
where openings might exist, job counsellors to be recruited by the UDKR would help miners and
surface workers to find jobs at other mines or to secure alternative employment opportunities. Grant
funds (e.g. from Canada) are being sought for this component. The counsellors would be initially
trained abroad and would be stationed at each of the closing mines for a period of six to twelve
months.'" The counsellor would serve as a type of ombudsman and would be available for daily
consultation with miners, related workers, and their families on such issues as where are there
alternative job possibilities (in the mines or other industries), what is the housing situation there, and
is there availability of kindergartens and other social services. Grievances that workers may have
about the process could be brought to the attention of the counsellors, who would refer them to
UDKR management.
9/ Interviewees all said "we will freeze to death without coal supply and funds to buy the coal."
10/ A recent Bank study on several countries in Eastern Europe (Hungary, Poland) has shown that in OECD countries, job
placement services have been two to four times as cost-effective as retraining of workers shed through industrial
restructuring. Germany, on the other hand, has had good experience with re-training workers from former East Germany.
The various findings point to the need for careful monitoring and fine-tuning of both types of assistance. For this and other
reasons, close monitoring will be done under the Pilot Project.



29
5. Technical Services
3.47   Technical services for the following subcomponents would be provided under the project":
(a)    Mitigation of physical closure. Assistance in contracting and implementing works for
physical closure would be provided. The U.K. Know-How Fund has expressed
strong interest in supporting UDKR's institutional program (Annex 12).
(b)    Management of UDKR. Consultant services would be provided to the UDKR to
assist establishment and initiation of operations, including project implementation,
accounting, budgeting and auditing systems (U.K. Know-How Fund, as above).
(c)    Retraining Programs. Assistance in preparing and delivering retraining programs
centered around new job skills for competitive markets would be provided. Emphasis
would be on voucher-based training that encourages individual choice (paras 2.21 -
2.22).
(d)    Environment. Assistance in preparing and implementing plans for environmental
mitigation would be provided.
(e)    Feasibility studies for investments to increase productivitv of viable mines. The
sector restructuring program includes possible investment into profitable mines to
make them more viable. Modernization and rationalization of existing mine
operations is needed so that they can remain competitive. Assistance in preparing and
implementing studies for investments, which would support such
modernization/rationalization of viable mines would be provided. The studies would
be prepared by the mines, with the assistance of Ukrainian and international experts.
Up to six mines would be involved. The mines would be analyzed to see if the
possible investments would promise sound economic and financial returns, in light of
the remaining economic life of the mine, the suitability of the mine to expand its
operations, and the management capacity.
(f)    Regional economic development activities would identify the Donbas region's
potential and help it to compete for new private investment. A diversified economy is
the best hedge against the ongoing contraction of the coal industry. Technical
assistance would be used to help establish local economic development offices and
prepare strategies for each of the cities affected by mine closures.
(g)    Public information strategy. A strategically phased public information program would
be collaboratively designed and implemented by the GOU through the UDKR and
II/ As indicated, bilateral grants are being sought for several of these technical services components.



30
local groups. The strategy would entail information dissemination and outreach,
including national, regional, oblast, raion, and local mine levels.'2
(h)    Social assessment. Building on the first phase of social assessment, there is a need
for a second phase, multi-disciplinary social assessment which addresses issues of
poverty, gender (i.e. impacts on woman and children), health and nutrition, and
values, attitudes, and outlooks of the mine community (i.e. by adapting a successful
coal miners' survey conducted in Russia). The 2-3 month assessment will attempt to
combine rapid qualitative and more quantitative survey methodologies, aimed at
gathering both secondary and primary data from the communities facing immnediate
closure. If possible, investigation of the status of those workers previously laid-off or
who left voluntarily from both the mining and other enterprises will be carried out.
Quantitative household surveys would establish necessary baseline data from which to
monitor and evaluate changes once the pilot mines close.
(i)    Consultation and participation of affected parties. In order to engage and learn from
the affected workers in the Pilot mines, a process of consultation and participation will
be initiated at an appropriate stage in each pilot mine through facilitated on-site
meetings of affected parties (workers, their families, other stakeholders). These
discussions will offer a forum for information-sharing, review and deternination of
social protection and mitigation options, design of monitorable indicators, and the
establishment of representative participation committees or advisory panels as long-
term mechanisms for ongoing project monitoring and evaluation.
(j)    Monitoring and evaluation. One of the most important elements of the Pilot Project
involves setting up of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system which would
directly inform about project implementation in the pilot phase, and would influence
design and implementation decisions for the planned subsequent projects. The M&E
program needs to be tailored to two levels: (i) for project as a whole, and (ii) for
each mine. A process of participatory monitoring would be carried out by
representatives of affected parties, including workers, municipalities, the UDKR, the
Ministry of Coal Industry, and possibly an outside party such as an NGO.
E. The Project's Impact on Local Govermnents
3.48   Local governments in Ukraine are in the process of a major transition. Their responsibilities
are increasing as revenues decrease. This project takes place against the backdrop of two major
changes in national policy, both of which are still. in the process of being implemented. The first is
that the Soviet-era network of enterprise-supported social infrastructure is being transferred to
municipal authorities in all sectors. In the case of the coal industry specifically, a Presidential Decree
dated February 7, 1996 provides that enterprise-owned social assets will be transferred to municipal
ownership during 1996 and the first half of 1997. These transfers, in the aggregate, will require
L2/At the national level, GOU has already announced publicly its intention to close 92 mines, and the Cabinet of Ministers
has signed a decree committing its support for: a) the closing of the three Donetsk Oblast mines and b) the Bank-assisted
Pilot Project to mitigate the social and environmental consequences of the three closures. At the mine level, information
needs to be conmmunicated more fully to the workers.



31
significant additional budget support for the municipalities. The Project will provide such support, on
a declining basis, but only for the social assets associated with the three pilot mines.
3.49   The second national policy change in process is that charges to residents (owners and renters
alike) for housing and communal services are being systematically raised to cost recovery levels.
They have already risen from approximately 5% of operating costs to 60% of operating costs in less
than two years, and are tentatively planned to cover 100% of costs by the end of 1996. This
dramatic increase is offset for the poor by a new program of needs-based subsidies which is intended
to limit housing expenses to 15% of family income.
3.50   The Project's impact on the three municipalities is summarized below and in Annex 9.13
Because the coal mines in question are not paying significant taxes today, the cities do not expect a
direct impact on their revenues from the mines' closure. In the long run, there could be some
negative impact on personal income tax revenues (approximately 1 % of the city's revenues in
Snezhnoye, which is the worst case), although all three cities report receiving little or no direct
revenues from these mines today. And there will be a small but measurable increase in expenditures
as the social assets are transferred to the municipalities. Without the mitigation funding provided by
the project, the impact on the municipal budgets, based on 1995 costs, expressed in US dollars, is as
follows:
Proletarsky Raion'4       Yenakievo             Snezhnoye
(US Dollars)
Mine's social asset costs         47,370                  407,800              414,173
Municipal Budget              6,151,667                10,274,187            5,919,247
Mine/Municipal proportion          0.8%                      4.0%                 7.0%
With mitigation funding provided by the project, the impact of the transfer of these social
assets as a percentage of the municipal budget is less, as follows:
Year 1                             0.2%                      1.0%                 1.8%
Year 2                             0.4%                      2.0%                 3.5%
Year 3                             0.6%                      3.0%                 5.3%
3.51   The financial impacts on the cities of these three mine's divestiture of social infrastructure is
trivial in comparison to the likely impact of the two national policies discussed above. If the national
policy for full-cost recovery of housing and communal services is implemented as expected, over half
of the asset transfer's impact on city budgets is eliminated. If the national policy for transfer of all
enterprise assets, or even all coal enterprise assets is implemented, the impact on municipal budgets
from these pilot asset transfers is dwarfed, and significant resources beyond the scope of this Project
will be required from the national budget. In the larger picture, this merely amounts to a change in
13/ As shown in Annex 9, two scenarios are presented for Snezhnoye and Yenakievo, one assuming no change in user
charges for housing and communal services, and one assuming the Government's policy of increasing such charges to cost-
recovery level is implemented. For the Proletarsky Raion of Donetsk, only one scenario is presented, as the Raion will not
be affected by the housing transfer.
14/ Note that the housing associated with the Pravda mines will be transferred to the City of Donetsk, rather than the
Lion, and is not included in these figures.



32
channels, since these assets were historically supported from the national budget, through the
enterprise channel.
F. On-lending Arrangements
3.52   The on-lending arrangements are as follows:
(a)    The Bank would sign a Loan Agreement with Ukraine;
(b)    The Bank would sign Project Aereements with the UDKR and with the Donetsk
Oblast. The arrangements between the Donetsk Oblast and the three municipalities
would be governed by Participating City Agreements. Each agreement would outline
implementation procedures and requirements; and
(c)    The Government of Ukraine would pass the proceeds of the loan on a grant basis to
the UDKR and to the Donetsk Oblast through Subsidiary Grant Agreements; the
Oblast will in turn pass the proceeds on to the three cities, on the same grant basis,
through Participatory City Agreements.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Implementation Plan
4.1    Responsibilities for project execution are summarized in Table 4.1. The detailed
implementation steps are shown in Box 4.1 below. The main implementation responsibility is with
the UDKR. Overall project oversight and policy coordination will be handled by a Project Steering
Committee (PSC) comprised of representatives of MCI, the Donetsk Oblast, the three municipalities
and the Ministry of Economy and Cabinet of Ministers who will meet periodically to review progress
on the project and to resolve outstanding issues. Management of social infrastructure will be carried
out by the local administrations (the city administration for the cities of Yenakievo and Snezhnoye,
and the district administration for the Proletarsky rayon of the city of Donetsk). Respective roles and
functions of these entities are described below (diagrams depicting the organizational set-up and
process are shown in Annex 16).



33
Box 4.1: KEY IMLEMENTATION SIEPS
A. OVERALL P}OORAM
'provide short-term operadng funds and commit to long-term operating funds for UDKIt and agree in principle to closure budget
(Ministry of Finance)
*fmalize the UDKR charter
*employ key staff of the UDKR (UDKR)
*launch public information campaign with Coal Conference in April (UDKR/MCI)
B. BEFORE EACH MINE CLOSURE
*establish date (July 1996) to close each mine (MCI)
*employ staff as necessary (UDKR)
*develop closure plans, which include technicad, enviromnmental, social, labor, financial, and timing provisions MCI, UDXR, city,
and institute), subject no objection by the WB
*establish implementation manual and accoundng system in accordance with generally accepted accountng principes (UDfR)
*obtain regulatory approvals required by Ukrainian law (environmental, social, labor, etc.) (MCIUDKR)
*conclude sub-agreement between GOU and UDKR, subject to no objection from the WB
*organize economic development/unemployment midgation program (JDKR)
*employ and train UDKR employment counselor(s) (UDKR)
'organize transportation program (UDKR)
*give notice to redeployable workers and those to be laid off (MCI)
*prepare and execute agreement between mining association and city on transfer of social infrastructure (UDKR)
*continue public infonnation program (UDKR)
*conduct social assessmnent for each mine, including poverty, gender, and heal and nuttitio analyses. (MCI in collaboratioa with
local entitites)
'conduct workshops with affected parties to explain menu of options (UDXKR)
*develop project monitoring and evaluation plan (UDKR, MCI, municipalites, and othre affected parties)
*establish advisory participation panel for monitoring and evaluation (UDIRKRmunicipalities)
*award contracts to contractors selected (in accordance with WB procuretent rules) for closure and environmental mitigation
(UDKR)
*phase out coal production and recover underground equipment (if any) (MCI)
C. ON DATE OF CLOSURE OF EACH MINE
*cease all coal production and underground equipment recovery (MCI)
*redeployable workers moved to new mines (MCI)
spay severance to laid off workers (MCI)
'pay back-salaries (MCI)
'fonnally transfer mine to UDKR (MCI)
*transfer fluds to UDKR accounts for closure expenditres (MOF)
*MCI retains debts of mine
*transfer social assets, equipment, and employees to municipalities (MCI)
*merge mine's housing waiting list with city's (mnunicipalities)
D. AFTER CLOSURE DATE OF EACH MINE
*implement tedhnical closure and environmental mitigation (UDKR)
*operate social infrastructure, record revenues and expenditures (municipalities)
*submit quarterly accounts to UDKR for approval (municipalities)
*after UDKR approval of accounts, reimburse municipalities' net expenditures for transfered social assets on declining scale (75%,
50%, 25%) by transfer to city (MOF)
*distribute coal as heating subsidy (UDKR)
*implement econtomic developmenutlunemployment mitigation program  (UDKR)
'pay all social benefits due to workers from closed mines, including: pensions (MOF) disability (MCI), and unemployment
(Ministry of Social Welfare)
*nonitor and evaluate project implementation against project indicators, twice each year, with participation of affected panies
(GOU,UDKR).



34
1. The UDKR
4.2    The Minister of Coal Industry established the basis for UDKR's creation by order dated
January 1, 1996 (Annex 1 1). The UDKR was registered with the Donetsk City Executive Committee
(certificate dated March 13, 1996). UDKR's Charter (Ustav) and staffing plan were approved by the
Minister of Coal Industry on March 1, 1996. The primary objective of the UDKR is to provide
practical and effective assistance to workers and businesses in the coal producing regions in order to
stimulate job creation and promote economic regeneration. In order to meet this objective, the
UDKR's role will be to encourage and support local initiatives which aim to provide economic
restructuring and social development in areas affected by mine closures. Annex 12 shows a program
of institutional support that the U.K. Know-How Fund plans to provide to UDKR.
4.3    The UDKR will assume responsibility for the actual closure of mines and for the social
mitigation and heat subsidy program. Once fully staffed (the plan calls for 135 employees), the
UDKR will begin the immediate task of establishing the local network of contacts to ensure the
maximum contribution is made to the job creation, and economic regeneration objectives. In
addition, the UDKR will be responsible for disbursement of all funds made available for workers'
compensation, transfer benefits, redundancy, and the promotion of job creation and economic
regeneration.
4.4    The UDKR will also undertake a program of public information designed to assure that all
affected parties are aware of the overall restructuring context as well as specific mine closure
activities.
2. The Role of the Municipalities
4.5    Housing and kindergartens would be transferred to the appropriate municipal authorities. For
the cities of Yenakievo and Snezhnoye, this is the city administration. As mentioned, for the city of
Donetsk, which is divided into raions, this is the Proletarsky Raion for kindergartens and other social
assets, and the city of Donetsk for housing. The Government of Ukraine would reimburse these
municipal authorities for a portion of their increased operating costs resulting from this transfer (less
revenues from user fees). The reimbursement (financed by the Bank loan on a declining scale)
provides time and incentive for (i) rationalization of operations; and (ii) increases in user fees to cost-
recovery levels (paired with the Government's targeted housing subsidy program), thus facilitating
sustainability of operations for the rationalized social assets. The cities would track their incremental
operating costs for the transferred social infrastructure, and would certify the amounts to the UDKR.
The UDKR would review these reports, and upon UDKR approval, the MoF would transfer the
reimbursement directly to the municipal authorities.
4.6    Housing waiting lists of the mines to be closed would be merged with the housing waiting
lists of the appropriate municipal authorities.
4.7    Electric substations owned by mines to be closed but serving existing housing would be
transferred to the municipalities together with the housing they serve or to the appropriate local
electric utility enterprise.
4.8    Other assets of the mines to be closed (profilactoria, sanitoria, rest houses, palaces of culture,
clubs, etc.) would be transferred to the appropriate health or municipal authorities (the cities of
Yenakievo and Snezhnoye and the Proletarsky Raion of Donetsk), except in the case of remote
facilities, which should be privatized through auction as soon as possible.



35
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
Table 4.1: Responsibilities for Project Implementation
Component                                      Supervision Agency           Implementing Agency
or End-Beneficiary
A. Mitigation of physical closure
- environmental mitigation                      MCWUDKR                     Contractors
- civil works                                   UDKR                        Contractors
- equipment                                     UDKR                        Closing mines
- operating costs during closure                UDKR                        Local Suppliers (incl. Donbassenergo)
B. Social Mitigation
- severance payments                            MOF/UDKR                    Laid-off workers
- old age pension benefits                      MOFIUDKR                    Pensioners
- disability payments                           MOF/UDKR                    Disabled ex-workers
- unemployment benefits                         MOF/MCI                     Laid-off workers
- reemployment support                          UDKR/Donetsk Oblast         Laid-off workers, new employers
- public works                                  Donetsk Oblast              Municipalities
- micro credit                                  micro credit agency to be    New businesses
selected
C. Social asset transfer
- kindergartens                                 MCI/MOF/Donetsk Oblast   municipalities
- sports, cultural facilities, and profilactoria  MCI/MOF/Donetsk Oblast   municipalities
- housing and communal services                 MCI/MOF/Donetsk Oblast   municipalities
- heating subsidy                               UDKR                        Workers and pensioners
D. UDKR incremental operating expenses          UDKR                        UDKR
E. Technical assistance
- physical closure                              UDKR                        UDKR
- management of the UDKR                        UDKR                        UDKR
- retraining                                    UDKR/Donetsk Oblast         Workers
- environment                                   MCI/UDKR                    UDKR
- feasibility studies for ongoing mines         MCI                         Selected mines
- regional economic development                 MCI/Donetsk Oblast          Donetsk Oblast
- public information strategy                   MCI/Donetsk Oblast          Donetsk Oblast
- social assessment                             UDKR                        Workers and Families
- workshops with affected parties               UDKR                        Ditto
- monitoring and evaluation plan                UDKR                        GoU/Bank
Note:   The UDKR would have the main responsibility for the project; the Donetsk Oblast and the municipalities would
handle the disbursement of proceeds for dives.iture of social infrastructure and public works. The Donetsk Oblast
would handle regional economic development, retraining and public information; an agency to be determined (tbd)
would handle the micro-credit. The Ministry of Coal Industry would handle the feasibility studies.



36
3. Participatory Mechanisms and Evaluation
4.9    The two-fold challenge is (i) to get meaningful participation by affected parties in the Pilot
Project, and (ii) to learn by doing, i.e. to use the Pilot Project as a tool for stakeholder analysis,
monitoring, and evaluation so that the subsequent restructuring projects are well designed.
4.10   Beneficiary participation would be achieved through four mechanisms:
(i)    the establishment of participation panels at each of the three sites to monitor project
implementation;
(ii)   the establishment of an overall Project Steering Committee (PSC) to provide policy
guidance and to resolve outstanding issues;
(iii)   an ongoing public information strategy; and
(iv)   periodic social assessment work to identify the Project's impact at each site.
4.11   Each site-specific Participation Panel would be an advisory group to the UDKR; one Panel
which would include representatives of:
-      each of the unions at the closing mine;
-      the local administration (city and if applicable, raion);
-      the local elected council (city and if applicable, raion);
-      the mine's managers;
-      several workers and family representatives; and
-      the local newspaper, television, or radio station.
Each Participation Panel would be regularly informed by the UDKR about implementation
progress, in order to provide (a) systematic infornation to, and consultation with key stakeholders;
and (b) meaningful feedback to the UDKR and other decision makers. The three Participation Panels,
would continue in existence during the life of the project, and would be convened as often as
required. The Panels will prepare in tenns reports every six months. At the end of the project, a
detailed report and debriefing of each panel will allow the Government and the Bank to evaluate the
project as implemented against its design objectives. Each panel would be professionally facilitated
and will be provided with training and substantive education in the issues. Because the Pilot Project
would begin essentially immediately, it is anticipated that the greatest uses of the Participation Panels
would be:
(a)    to allow the Government entities (national and local) and the World Bank to monitor
and evaluate implementation, as it occurs at each site; and
(b)    to inform the design of the subsequent assistance operations.
4.12   The Project Steering Committee would include representatives of:
the Cabinet of Ministers (CoM) or their designated representatives (e.g. Ministry of
Economy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Social Protection);
the Ministry of Coal Industry;
the UDKR;



37
each of the unions (the official miners' union, the two independent miners' unions,
and the "white collar" technical and administrative union);
local administrations;
Oblast Administration; and
mine managers.
The PSC would help to guide the UDKR on policy aspects and on resolving any major difficulties in
the course of implementation. The PSC would also evaluate the project and formulate
recommendations regarding next steps in the work of the UDKR.
4.13   The public information strategy would be developed by the PSC, the Government, and the
Bank, and would be designed to keep the public at large and the citizens at each site fully informed
about the status of the project, planned events, and the work of the Participation Panels and the PSC.
Technical assistance would be provided as described earlier. Where appropriate, media
representatives would be invited to meetings of the Participation Panels and the PSC.
4.14   Social assessment and survey work would be carried out by qualified Ukrainian institutions
to determine and establish baseline information and expectations at the beginning of the project, as
well as during and after the project's implementation. Technical assistance would be provided as
described earlier.
B. Procurement and Disbursement
4.15   Procurement under the Bank loan would cover: (i) civil works needed to support the civil
works for physical closure and environmental mitigation out the physical closure and environmental
mitigation; (ii) the purchase of auxiliary equipment needed to support the civil works for physical
closure and environmental mitigation; and (iii) the hiring of consulting services. For all other
activities financed under the proposed loap, such as the divestiture of social infrastructure, and re-
employment support, no procurement arrangements are applicable. Given the small size of the
contracts expected for physical closure and environmental mitigation and the fact that the works are
geographically scattered and labor intensive, civil works will be procured following National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms are unlikely to be
interested in these contracts but will not be excluded from participation. The relevant implementing
agencies will use the Bank's regional sample bidding documents for NCB. Consultants would be
appointed in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1991).
For the feasibility studies, consultant services would be procured using short listing; for other
technical assistance tasks, each of small value, a sole source basis would be used. Table 4.2
summarizes the procurement arrangements. All of these arrangements will be discussed in depth at
the Project Launch Workshop in May 1996 (see para 4.25).
4.16  In Ukraine, like many other states of the former Soviet Union, there is no public procurement
law at present. A country procurement strategy note is scheduled for 1997. Experience in competitive
bidding is limited to a few projects financed by international organizations.
4.17   Procurement of mine operating costs during closure, social mitigation expenses, social assets
transfer expenses and UDKR administrative expenses will be undertaken through a yearly operating
budget program prepared by the implementing agency and approved by the Bank.



38
Table 4.2: Procurement Arrangements
L ProDurement Mdsi  
Type of Expenditures        National        Other       Not Bank-        Total
Competitive                  Financed         Costs
______ ______ ______ _____ B idding   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
Works                             6.0             -                           6.0
(6.0)                                      (6.0)
Goods                                           0.7'                          0.7
(0.7)                        (0.7)
UDKR Incremental Operating                      1.12                          1.1
Costs                                           (0.3)                        (0.3)
Social Mitigation Expenses                      8.53                          8.5
(2.8)          (-)          (2.8)
Sub-Loans                                       2.04                          2.0
(2.0)                        (2.0)
Social Assets Transfer                          5 2 65                        5.3
(2.6)                       (2.6)
Consultant Services                             0.36           1.3            1.6
0.3           (-)           (0.3)
Project Mines' Operating           -            3.37            -             3.3
Costs during Closure                            (1.1)                        (1.1)
Total                             6.0           21.2           1.3           28.5
(6.0)         (9.8)          (-)          (15.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
1/ International shopping for small equipment items and materials required for physical closure and environmental
mitigation.
2/ Incremental operating expenses of UDKR, including cost of rent and utilities, salaries, office equipment and supplies,
maintenance, communications and transportation (see Table 4.3 for disbursement percentages) of Bank-financed portion.
3/ Severance payments, old age pension, benefits, disability payments and re-employment support (see Table 4.3 for Bank-
financed portion of disbursement percentage).
4/ Micro credits for eligible individuals and employers. A maximum value of $5,000 per contract, would be procured
through usual commercial practices.
5/ Payments for operation and maintenance of housing, kindergartens, cultural and social facilities and heating subsidies (see
Table 4.3 for disbursement percentage of Bank-financed portion).
6/ Consultants' services procured in accordance with the guidelines for the use of consultants.
7/ Utility, electricity and other operating costs after mining ceases, during the physical closure process, excluding salaries to
regular staff and management (see Table 4.3 for disbursement percentage).
Prior review. Contracts under NCB and for goods and works amounting to US$300,000
equivalent and more would be subject to prior review. All contracts for consulting firms amounting
to US$100,000 and more, as well as all contracts for individual consultants amounting to US$50,000
and more would also be subject to the Bank's prior review. Terms of reference for all consulting
services shall have a prior review by the Bank.
4.18    Loan proceeds are expected to be disbursed over a three-year period. The Bank's standard
disbursement profiles do not provide a suitable basis for comparison, due to the special nature of this



39
project. The disbursement categories and the percentages of expenditures to be financed by the
proposed loan are shown in Table 4.3. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 13.
Table 4.3: Allocation of Bank Loan
(in US$ million equivalent)
Category                            Amount                     % of Expenditures to be
Financed       
(see loan Agreement Schedule)
Works                                             5.5                            70% of total
Goods                                             0.6                  100 % of foreign expenditures
100 % of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other
items produced locally
Incremental Operating Costs                      0.3                  50% of expenditures during 1996-97
33% of expenditures during 1997-98
16% of expenditures during 1998-99
Social Mitigation Expenses and re-                2.6                  100%
employment support
Sub-Loans                                         2.0                  100%
Social Assets Transfer and heating                2.4                 75% of expenditures during 1996-97
subsidy                                                               50% of expenditures during 1997-98
25% of expenditures during 1998-99
Consultant Services                               0.3                  100%
Project Mines' Post-Closure                       1.0                 30% of total
Expenses
Unallocated                                       1.1
Total                                            15.8
* Net of local taxes and duties.
Disbursement for works, incremental operating costs, social mitigation expenses, and social assets transfer will be
undertaken based on a yearly operating budget program prepared by the implementing agency and approved by the Bank.
4.19    To facilitate disbursement, the Government would establish two separate Special Accounts
(SAs) in commercial banks for the two main implementing bodies -- the UDKR and the Donetsk
Oblast. The SAs would cover the Bank's share of expenses under the project. The Donetsk Oblast
Special Account would cover the transfer of social assets.
4.20    An initial deposit of US$500,000 would be made available for the Special Account for UDKR
upon Loan effectiveness. For the Donetsk Oblast Special Account, an initial deposit of US$200,000
would be made available. The Bank would replenish the Special Accounts upon receipt of satisfactory
proof of incurred eligible expenses, accompanied by a bank statement and reconciliation of the Special
Accounts. Payments for expenditures prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, except for



40
withdrawals, in aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 12, 1996 (creation of
UDKR).
4.21   The UDKR would maintain the Special Accounts for loan-financed components and would
keep them separately from any existing accounts. All disbursements would need to be fully
documented except for all operating costs, social mitigation expenses, coal distributions, expenditures
for goods and works under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent for incremental operating
costs, and for expenditures of consultants' services under contracts costing less than (i) $100,000 for
firms, and (ii) $50,000 equivalent for individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.22   The Donetsk Oblast would maintain the Special Account for the social assets component and
would keep it separately from any other existing accounts. Disbursements will be made against
statement of expenditure (SOEs). The Donetsk Oblast would be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications. The documentation for withdrawals under SOEs will be retained at the Donetsk Oblast
for review by Bank supervision missions and for regular and semi-annual audits. At the city and
raion level detailed quarterly and yearly reports that itemize uses of funds would be kept. Quarterly
Uses-of-Funds statements that are very specific in relation to social assets would help to clear various
uses of the funds , and also help to separate them from municipalities' other activities. For example,
for kindergartens, the quarterly Uses-of-Funds include payroll, food and day attendance. The yearly
Uses-of-Funds reports would show utilities expenditures. The supervisory role would be managed by
the Donetsk Oblast, which would spot-check the disbursements, and arrange audits of the expenditure
as necessary.
C. Accounting and Auditing
4.23   The UDKR and the Donetsk Oblast will maintain accounts for loan-financed components
separate from any other existing accounts. They will maintain records of all receipts and
disbursements of funds. Copies of these documents will be routinely submitted to the UDKR and to
the Donetsk Oblast. Each project account will be audited separately on an annual basis by a firm of
independent accountants acceptable to the World Bank. Audits will be made available to the World
Bank by June 30 each year. The audits will include a separate opinion on the SOEs and each Special
Account. These arrangements will be confirmed during negotiations.
D. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.24   Supervision, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation at the national level would
be assigned to the PSC. The PSC would draw on the work of the Participation Panels. Monitoring
and coordination of project implementation would be assigned to implementation advisors (UDKR
employees) and the job counsellors at each mine. Consultants financed through the technical
assistance component of the project will provide expert advice in procurement, financial management
and beneficiary assessment. The UDKR will prepare a quarterly progress report on overall project
implementation based on reports from the local governments.
4.25   Since the UDKR is a new body and the MCI has no experience in implementing Bank
projects, the project will require substantial supervision by the Bank during its implementation. A
project launch workshop is scheduled for May 1996. At negotiations, the Bank reached an



41
understanding with UDKR and the project municipalities on the critical actions to be taken by quarter
and this will be discussed more fully at the project launch workshop. A formal mid-term
implementation review is scheduled for the first half of 1997 whereby senior government officials and
the Bank would undertake a comprehensive review of project implementation to date, especially on
the labor and social mitigation package. Under the supervision of the PSC, the implementation
advisor (U.K. Know-How Fund) and the job counsellors will coordinate with the UDKR and will
prepare an evaluation report by March 1907. The report will be reviewed by the Bank and
Government. In the subsequent year, supervision efforts may be reduced, depending on the success
in the implementation process and accumulation of the relevant experience by local authorities. The
supervision plan is shown in Annex 14. A bar chart of implementation steps at the mine level is
shown in Annex 10.
4.26   Given the complexity of the project, and the importance of monitoring employment generation
and labor movements, monitoring plan and performance indicators for the social components were
agreed upon during negotiations. Annex 17 shows the terms of reference for social impact
monitoring plus indicative monitoring indicators for the social aspects (indicators for the technical
aspects are more routine). The information will be collected by UDKR in a timely manner for its
own understanding of the impact of the social mitigation measures, and such information will be
submitted quarterly to the Bank.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1    A full cost-benefit analysis for the three mine Pilot Project has been carried out. Annex 15
shows these calculations for each mine individually as well as consolidated for the Pilot Project. The
cost and benefit cash flows have been discounted by 12% annually and they have been extended for a
five years period after the project completion, i.e., up to the year 2003.
Economic and Fiscal Analysis of Mine Closures
5.2   The net benefits in the long run of closing a mine depend upon:
*     the reduction in non-labor mining costs -- energy, pit props, other material inputs, and
replacement equipment -- resulting from the fall or transfer of coal production plus the
net increase in the value of output due to the redeployment of mine workers;
*     the cost of replacing the lost output from other mines or by importing coal or by the
use of alternative fuels.
These net benefits are set against the costs of closing the mine, allowing for the fact that
many of these costs might, in any case, have been incurred at a later date when the mine's reserves
are exhausted.
5.3    Usually, such calculations do not take into account the redistribution of income caused by the
project or its impact on the labor market. However in this case, a fuller analysis was performed,
estimating the impact of the mine closure on different groups within the economy. Table 5.1 below
presents a more complete picture of the flows associated with two scenarios in which the mine
continues to operate, and where it is closed immediately. Many of these items cancel out when



42
looking at the problem from the perspective of the economy as a whole, especially if some
simplifying assumptions are made. In particular, by assuming that (a) coal prices are set equal to
import parity plus transport and distribution costs; and (b) the marginal and average costs of transport
and distribution for coal are approximately equal, the costs and benefits under each scenario may be
summarized as:
(a) Without project:
Benefits:  Locally produced coal delivered to consumers:
Costs:    Material inputs & replacement equipment (import cost);
Wages of workers in alternative jobs (economic cost of labor);
Maintenance and operation of social assets;
Coal cleaning costs;
Coal distribution and transport; and
Future closure and mitigation costs.
(b) With project:
Benefits:  Equivalent of imported coal delivered to consumers; and
Value of extra output from redeployed miners:
Costs:    Coal imports + transport & distribution costs (=coal sales);
Closure costs;
Wages of workers in alternative jobs;
Social mitigation cost (incl transfer of workers, free coal & special
employment programs);
Maintenance and operation of social assets; and
Administration of closure program.
In aggregate terms, the net benefit of implementing the project is, thus, equal to the difference
between the benefits minus the costs under the with project and no project scenarios. The economic
rate of return works out to 55% (ranging from 20% for Removskaya, 93% for Pravda and 65% for
Krasniy Oktyabr). The ERRs are high because of the avoidance of continued future losses and
subsidies.
5.4       The table also shows that the closure of a mine causes a substantial redistribution of
income between different groups. Specifically, mine workers will be net losers if the sum of wages
in alternative jobs plus severance, unemployment and social security payments is less than the wages
that they currently receive from the mine. The payment of wages has often been delayed by many
months, so the magnitude of this loss may be small or zero. High rates of voluntary tumover in the
industry -- prompted by late payment of wages -- suggests that this may, indeed, be the case. On the
other side, the Government budget is likely to gain because the fall in subsidies (after allowing for
closure, social mitigation and other costs) will exceed any loss in revenue. However, in this context
the Govermnent is simply the channel through which money is transferred from taxpayers -- other
households -- to those who benefit from the continued operation of the mine. This means that the
overall distributional impact of the project may be positive if the typical taxpayer or recipient of
government transfers is less well-off than the typical recipient of mining subsidies. The key variable



43
is how many workers will find alternative jobs in the short- and long-term. In Table 3.4, estimates
were presented about the likely magnitudes of those who might find employment versus those who
might not, and in which risk categories. In the middle case, 66 percent would not find alternative
jobs in the near term (two years), but over a longer term, the outlook would improve. The mitigation
benefits provided for under this Pilot Project offer social protection to meet these concerns.
Table 5.1: Costs and Benefits of Closing Mines in Ukraine
(Pravda, Krasniy Oktyabr, and Removskaya)
Agent                    Costs/Expenditures                              Benefits/Revenues
A. Mine continues to operate
Mining        Material inputs (incl tax)                        Revenue from coal sales
enterprise    Equipment replacement (incl tax)                   Subsidies received by mine
Labor costs
Wages & benefits (incl free coal)
Social security charges & taxes
Coal cleaning costs
Coal transport & distribution
Taxes & royalties oni coal production
Workers                 Wages in alternative jobs                    Wages & benefits from mine
Rest of       Import cost of material inputs                     Sales of material inputs (excl tax)
economy       Import cost of equipment                          Sales of equipment (excl tax)
Marginal cost of transport & distribution services  Sales of coal transport & distribution
services
Government  Subsidies to mine                                   Taxes, etc from coal production
Future mine closure and social mitigation costs   Taxes on material inputs, equipment, etc
Social security charges & taxes
B. Immediate mine closure
Workers       Wages in alternative jobs                         Severance, unemployment and social
security payments
Wages in alternative jobs
Rest of       Coal imports                                      Revenue from coal sales
economy       Marginal cost for transport & distribution of     Value of output produced by redeployed
imported coal                                     miners
Wages paid to miners in alternative jobs
Social security charges & taxes for new employses
Government  Mine closure costs                                  Social security charges & taxes for new
Social .-.itigation costs                         employees
Transfer of workers to other mines
Severance, unemployment and social
security payments
Costs of special employment programs
Free coal for former mine workers
Maintenance & operation of social assets
Administration of closure program



44
5.5    Risks. There are several significant risks (hence the Bank felt it necessary to start with a
Pilot Project):
(i) the affected workers might not be able to find other jobs and thus the social mitigation
measures as provided for in the Project might prove inadequate.
*         Approach: The Government has adopted a regional approach starting this
Pilot Project through one Oblast. UDKR will mount specific
monitoring/evaluation of job search progress; work closely with the job
counsellors, and review whether the package of social mitigation measures will
need to be modified as implementation proceeds.
(ii) A second risk is that the disparate interest of workers, mine management and the
Government could result in inaction and social dislocation.
*         Approach: The Government is mounting increased public discussions of the
sector restructuring program. 7he PSC would review implementation very
closely and Bank supervision should liaise intensively with the PSC.
(iii)        A third risk is that the UDKR could become ineffective as it attempts to
handle the mine closure process, the social mitigation and the economic
regeneration activities.
&         Approach: Substantial technical assistance will be provided by the U.K.
Know-How Fund to assist in start-up and early operations. The Donetsk
Oblast will assist in economic regeneration.
5.6    The risks of the Project are considerable. Yet, the Government has decided for very sound
reasons to proceed with restructuring of the coal sector, including closure of unprofitable mines.
There is little doubt that with mines being closed the miners and related workers (and their families)
will be better off with the mitigation package as included in the project, than without it. In fact, in
the half-dozen mine closures that have occurred over the past five years, there was no mitigation
package to speak of, and the restructuring of the sector became delayed. The design of the project,
with its mine-by-mine approach, allows the GoU and the Bank to review progress closely and "to
leam by doing" in this challenging initiative of implementing a well-targeted social protection safety
net.
5.7    The risks have also been reduced through careful project design, including such steps as:
*  provision of initial technical assistance to the UDKR and to design institutes (financed by
the Japan PHRD);
*  increased consultations with stakeholders during Pilot Project preparation;
*  contracting of the physical closure of the mines; and
*  inclusion of detailed monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for inplementation of the
Project.



45
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1    Prior to negotiations, the following actions were carried out:
(i)  the Government designated the three mines under the project as mines that will be
closed (para 3.2).
(ii)  the Government registered the UDKR, appointed a chief executive, and approved
UDKR's charter, including its operating and staffing plan (para 4.2);'5
6.2    The following agreements were reached during negotiations and are reflected in the Loan and
Project Agreements and recorded in the Minutes:
(i)  the Government will establish the Project Steering Committee (para 4.1);
(ii)  a Charter for the UDKR, satisfactory to the Bank will be prepared for its operations
(this has been done);
(iii) the three participating cities/towns (Donetsk, Yenakievo, Snezhnoye) has taken over the
social assets of the three mines pursuant to the Participating City Agreements (para 3.42
and Annex 9);
(iv)  obligations to affected workers (such as three months severance and disability payments)
will be met (paras 3.23);
(v)  the eligibility criteria for micro-credit lending to be developed prior to disbursements
(para 3.36); and
(vi)  the UDKR will collect and document information necessary for monitoring and
evaluation; such information will be submitted every three months (para 4.26 and
Annex 17).
6.3    The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  that the Borrower will enter into the Subsidiary Agreement with the UDKR; and
(ii)  that the UDKR will be adequately staffed to carry out its role and its functions under
the project.
6.4    Conditions of disbursement for their respective categories are:
(i)  adoption of a mine closure plan by the UDKR for each of the 3 mines, satisfactory to
the Bank, including the environmental mitigation plan;
15/ MCI Decree No. 11, dated January 12, 1996; UDKR was registered on March 13, 1996. The charter (ustav) was
approved by rt.e Minister of Coal Industry on March 1, 1996.



46
(ii)  for the social mitigation package, the UDKR will prepare a manual or other
documentation of the procedures for making and accounting for payments to affected
parties, and for the heating subsidy (para 3.44). This would include details of required
documentation for confirming the eligibility of recipients to receive social mitigation
payments and the coal distributions (para 3.5 and Box 4.1);
(iii) for the micro-credit component, execution of a satisfactory Fiscal Agency Agreement
between the Borrower and the agency selected for carrying out the micro-credit lending.
This should include appointment of the agency to appraise the micro-credits and
supervise lending, including obtaining repayments from beneficiaries, application
procedures, selection criteria, and terms and conditions of on-lending. The
administration costs of the fiscal agent would be covered by a management fee out of
proceeds from the subcomponent (para 3.35 - 3.38); and
(iv) the Borrower will conclude a Subsidiary Agreement with the Donetsk Oblast which
would include procedures to transfer the social facilities to the three municipalities
(paras 3.39 - 3.42).
6.5    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Coal Pilot Project is suitable for a loan to
Ukraine of US$15.8 million for a period of 17 years, including five years grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
ANNEXES






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
PROTOCOL
DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENT OF
UKRAINE AND THE WORLD BANK ON RESTRUCTURING THIE UKRAINIAN
COAL INDUSTRY
JANUARY 15-20, 1996, LONDON
In view of the (i) need to increase the efficiency of the coal industry of Ukraine, promote
competition, improve the profitability of enterprises, and speed up restructuring; and (ii) the
commitment of the World Bank to actively support the achievement of these goals;
Taking into account the experience of Great Britain, Hungary, Belgium; and France in the
restructuring of their coal industries; and
Considering a number of proposals prepared by the Ukrainian side and the World Bank;
The delegations reached agreement on the need to implement the following measures:
Establishment of coal markets by providing enterprises the right to sell all their coal at
prices freely negotiated with customers.
Corporatization of viable coal mines while transfering the mines identified for closure to a
newly created ehltity, Ukrainian Coal Company, entrusted with the management of the mine
closure process.
Closure of uneconomic mines with the aim of minimizing the technical cost and the time
required for closure while taking into account the need to protect the environment and the
livelihood of people affected by mine closures.
Transfer of social assets and liabilities from the mining industry to local governments.
Development and implementation of programs to support the generation of employment in
regions/cities where major job losses occur as a result of mine closures and the
rationalization of employment in remaining mines.
Elimination of cross-subsidies between mining enterprises and allowing enterprises to decide
about the best use of their operating profits.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Concentration of state support on covering the technical and social costs of mine closures
while relying on the banking sector to provide funds for commercially viable investments.
In order to assist Ukraine with the implementation of the above measures, the World Bank
plans to provide loans for the coal sector in a total amount of US$ 300-400 million in the 1996-98
period. Within this amount, US$ 80-100 million is planned to be approved in 1996. The proceeds
of these loans will be utilized to finance investments in the viable part of the coal industry, cover
part of the costs of closing down uneconomic mines, assist local governrments in taking over social
assets from mining companies, and mitigate the possible negative social consequences of
restructuring.
The World Bank is prepared to assist the Government of Ukraine in obtaining technical
assistance from the UK Know How Fund and other donors for the restructuring of the coal
industry. The World Bank is also prepared to assist Ukraine to obtain resources from the Global
Environment Facility for the extraction and utilization of coalbed methane.
The Ukrainian delegation would like to express its gratitude to the World Bank and the
British Know How Fund for the outstanding organization of the meeting, and the very informative
and useful visit to a number of British coal mines.
For the Ukrainian delegation:                For the World Bank:
V. 1. Yevtukhov                              D. Lallement
Vice-Pr   Minister                                     fq ECqI
kVja iq1jqqto



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
ENACTMENT
OF THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE
On Coal Industry Restructuring
1.    With the aim of raising the efficiency of the coal industry of Ukraine, carrying out its
restructuring under conditions of market reforms, creating a competitive environment and in
accordance with point 7 of Article 24 and part two of Article 25 of the Constitutional Agreement
between the President of Ukraine and the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine "On Main Principles for the
Organization and Functioning of State Power and Local Self-Government in the Period till the
Adoption of the New Constitution of Ukraine," and Article 3 of the Law of Ukraine "On Privatization
of State Enterprise Property", I decree:
2.    Ministry of the Coal Industry of Ukraine shall undertake the following measures for the
restructuring of the coal industry:
o     in the period of one month to set up state enterprises having the status of legal entity,
on the basis of mines and other structural subdivisions, which do not have the status
of legal entity and are part of the associations, trusts, or combines belonging to the
sphere of management of the Ministry of the Coal Industry of Ukraine;
o     to ensure the separation of facilities from the coal extracting and coal washing state
enterprises, the activity of which is not connected with the extraction and processing
of coal;
o     by September 1, 1996 in coordination with the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine and
the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to carry out the corporatization of State
enterprises, belonging to the sphere of management of the Ministry of the Coal
Industry of Ukraine, in the procedure deternined by Enactment #210 of the President
of Ukraine of June 15, 1993 "On Corporatization of Enterprises" (with amendments
introduced by Enactments of the President of Ukraine, #354 of August 21, 1993,
#580 of December 13, 1993 and #20 of January 22, 1994), transforming these
enterprises into state open joint-stock companies, state joint-stock coal companies as
well as establishing state holding companies in accordance with Enactment #224 of the
President of Ukraine of May 11, 1994 "On Holding Companies, Set Up in the
Process of Corporatization and Privatization."
3.    Not subjected to corporatization shall be unprofitable state mining enterprises (or strip mines),
to be closed in the established procedure, their property shall not be included in the authorized funds
of state open-joint stock companies, state joint-stock coal companies and state holding companies
being established in accordance with Article 1 of the present Enactment. The Ministry of the Coal
Industry of Ukraine shall undertake measures for the leasing, privatization of unprofitable state



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
mining enterprises (or strip mines) in the established procedure. In three months time the Ministry of
the Coal Industry of Ukraine together with interested ministries, other central bodies of state
executive power, Volyn, Donetsk, Zhytomyr, Kirovograd, Lugansk, Lviv and Cherkassy Regional
State Administrations, shall work out and submit a state program on the closure of certain
unprofitable state mining enterprises (or strip mines) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, having
envisaged, in part, measures for the social protection of the workers released in connection with the
closure of such enterprises.
4.     To establish that the administration of shares of state open joint-stock companies, state
joint-stock coal companies, as well as state holding companies, established in accordance with Article
1 of the present Enactment, shall be carried out by an authorized persons appointed by the Ministry of
the Coal Industry of Ukraine. By June 1, 1996 the Ministry of the Coal Industry of Ukraine with the
participation of the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine and the State Property Fund of Ukraine shall
work out and submit proposals as to the procedure for the administration of shares of state open joint-
stock companies, state joint-stock coal companies, as well as state holding companies, established in
accordance with Article 1 of the present Enactment.
5.     Grant the right to state open joint-stock companies, state joint-stock coal companies, as well
as state holding companies, established in accordance with Article 1 of the present Enactment, to
independently sell their own products for contractual prices. The declaration of prices on such
products on the domestic market of Ukraine shall be introduced only if the level of prices surpasses
the level of prices on the world market.
6.     A registration fee for the state registration of state enterprises, which are being established in
accordance with paragraph two of Article 1 of the present Enactment, shall not be charged.
7.     To establish that the social assets of enterprises, belonging to the sphere of management of the
Ministry of the Coal Industry of Ukraine, shall be subjected to separation and transferred to the
municipal ownership of corresponding administrative and territorial bodies. The Cabinet of Ministers
of Ukraine, Volyn, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Zhytomyr, Kirovograd, Lugansk, Lviv and Cherkassy
regional State Administrations shall undertake measures to ensure the stage by stage transfer of social
assets, specified in the part one of this Article, to municipal ownership during 1996 and the first half
of 1997.
8.     Objects separated in accordance with paragraph three of Article 1 of the present Enactment,
and whose activity is not connected with the extraction and processing of coal, shall be subjected to
privatization according to the Legislation of Ukraine.
9.     The Ministry of the Coal Industry of Ukraine together with the Ministry of Economy of
Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine and the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine shall work
out and submit to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposals on reducing the list of state
enterprises, belonging to the administrative sphere of the Ministry of the Coal Industry of Ukraine
and are not subjected to privatization, for the further solution of the issue in the established
procedure.
10.    To establish that funds, received from the privatization of state property during the



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
restructuring of the coal industry, shall be entered into the non-budget State Privatization Fund. After
the reimbursement of costs, connected with privatization, the remaining funds shall be addressed to
technical upgrade and supplementing the working capital of coal extracting and coal washing subjects
of entrepreneurship, established in accordance with the present Enactment.
11.   The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall undertake measures to introduce rental payments
for coal in 1996, differentiated depending on the mining and geological conditions of the coal
deposits.
12.   To establish that restrictions, envisages in para. 23 and 25 of the Statute on Holding
Companies, established during the process of corporatization and privatization, approved by
Enactment #224 of the President of Ukraine of May 11, 1994, shall not apply to state holding
companies, being established in accordance with the present Enactment.
13.   The present Enactment shall go into force on the day it is signed.
L. KUCHMA
President of Ukraine
Kyiv
February 7, 1996
#116/96



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
PRAVDA MINES - DONETSK
1.    The Pravda mines are located in the Proletarsky Raion of the City of Donetsk. It is one of
the oldest raions of the city, and is physically remote. The Proletarsky Raion includes several mines
in addition to those in the Pravda group. All are older mines. The city as a whole has a relatively
diversified economy, and thus the best chance of the three pilot cities to absorb coal workers in other
sectors. Some two thousand workers are employed by the Pravda group, including miners, surface
workers, managers, and others. The Proletarsky Raion is the largest raion in Donetsk, with a
population of 138,000. Of these, 39,000 (28.26%) are pensioners.
1. Technical issues
2.    Pravda Mine. This mine is located next to the city of Donetsk, in an area where coal mining
began a century ago. Underground mine workings proceeded from the area where the coal seam reach
the surface to increasing depth by a complex network of galleries and shafts. Production costs and
the burden on the urban enviromnent have become so high that continuation of exploitation is no
longer justified. The mine property includes land where mining ceased long ago but many small
shafts, with partially unidentified location, were left behind unfilled. Those shafts now pose a safety
risk and environmental nuisance. Their detection and proper filling is a key feature of the physical
closing plan for this mine. Apart from this, the closing process of the Pravda mine is uncomplicated
and low-cost.
2. Social Infrastructure
The following assets are associated with the Pravda mines:
-      148,500 square meters of housing, in 627 buildings, housing 9,842 people
-      one kindergarten, with 96 places, and an enrollment of 72 children'
-      one dormitory, with 40 places, housing 40 people
-     three cultural facilities, with a total capacity of 1,328
-     two recreational bases (one on the Azov Sea of three cottages with 2 places each, and
one 20 km. from the mine with 15 cottages with 8 places each)
-     one summer camp, that was apparently never actually opened
1/ A site visit found 12 children and 14 employees at the kindergarten.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
3.      City officials plan to initially take on all of the social asset-related employees together with
the social assets, but that they will be looking for opportunities to restructure to operate more
efficiently. Proletarsky Raion officials are exploring means by which the cultural facilities and clubs
can remain in operation after the mine closes. They are working on a plan to consolidate
kindergartens for greater efficiency. City officials are concerned with practical aspects of the
transfer, for instance at what level of local government the housing will be owned and operated. The
City has appointed a special commission to document the condition of each house to be transferred to
the City.2
4.      Raion officials will be the ones responsible for operating the social assets, and are working
with the City of Donetsk officials to arrive at joint solutions.3 City officials plan for local authorities
to take over all of the social sphere from the Donetskugol Association, regardless of any particular
mine closings. Under this scheme, housing would be transferred to the city level, while waiting lists
for housing, kindergartens, and cultural facilities would be transferred to the raion level.
3. Labor Issues
-       breakdown by age
-       number of "disability" recipients
-       number of "retirement" recipients
-       other demographic informnation, as available)
5.      Raion officials predict that half of the Pravda mine workers will retire. They would like a
significant portion of the remaining workers to be employed over an extended closing period at the
mines, and envision that the rest would go to other mines. Both City and Raion officials are
concerned that a fast closing will throw a lot of people out of work. Miners consider their jobs to be
prestigious, and psychologically resist entering service industries. The City would like to see surface
facilities at the mines converted into small factories, although British experience suggests this is an
inefficient approach.
4. Financial Impact
6.      According to figures provided by the City Administration, total expenditures for upkeep of the
2/ This commission is to determine the amount of repairs needed to each house, and these calculations may serve as the
basis for a claim by the City against the mining association or any available successor.
3/ From the City's point of view, they finance the operations of the City's raions through the city budget, and thus are the
appropriate level to consider the financial impacts associated with increased operating costs. Under Ukraine's multi-level
system, Oblast officials similarly feel that since they finance the cities' operations, they are the appropriate level to consider
financial issues. However, because the methods by which each level judges how much to provide to lower levels are
obscure, it is recommended that funding be provided to the operational level, whether that is the city or the raion, and not to
supervisory levels.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
mining association's housing in the fourth quarter of 1995 were some 150 billion krb., and for 1996
are projected at some 678 billion krb. This is approximately $1.16 per square meter per year, and is
generally consistent with figures from other cities for maintenance of older, detached housing.4 City
officials report that the City generally maintains housing to a higher standard than the mine
enterprises, although formerly this situation was reversed.
7.     All of the Association's housing is planned to be transferred to municipal ownership in 1996.
In general, mine-owned housing is separate, small houses, while the city owns and operates mostly
apartments. At the overall unit operating cost of $1.16 per square meter, this implies some $173,000
in annual operating expenditures. However, the mining association separately calculated 24.029
billion krb in losses (net of user charges) for the Pravda housing in the first eight months of 1995.
This comes to $1.35 per square meter, or approximately $200,000 per year in annual operating
expenses. These two figures are close enough for the purposes of this scoping exercise, and it is pro-
posed that we accept the latter figure.
8.     In addition, based on calculations provided by the mining association, the city administration
will incur some $42,450 in operating losses associated with Kindergarten #232. If all social
infrastructure (including cultural and recreational facilities) were transferred, the mining association
calculates the annual operating loss would be some $263,000.
9.     The potential loss of tax revenues is not a large concern to the City of Donetsk, because the
coal enterprises are not currently paying significant taxes, although they have a theoretical obligation
to do so. Coal enterprises are engaged in the barter economy. Sometimes the City takes coal in lieu
of taxes, but it is difficult because coal production has declined sharply and what there is needed most
by power plants and other production enterprises.
10.    Raion officials believe that if the Government or World Bank provides transitional funding to
help offset these operating losses, it should be provided directly to the Raion. They suggest that
funds be deposited into the Raion's account in the PromInvestBank. However, City officials believe
the money should be deposited in the City's account, and not given to them through the national
budget system.
5. Other Social Commnitments
11.    About 990 people are on the Pravda mines' waiting list, and more than a thousand on the
Raion waiting list, but Raion officials do not consider these numbers (or the waiting lists) meaningful.
The average wait for an apartment in the raion is said to be 24 years. By the time a worker marries
and becomes eligible to be on the list, he or she may very well not live long enough to get an
apartment. Many people who have a legal right to be on the list have not bothered to register,
because they don't expect to get housing from the official waiting lists.
4/ These figures are net expenses after contribution of user charges, which are now set at 30-35% of expenses for housing
and co.amunal services, and are scheduled to increase to 60% by 1997. However, as prices have increased, non-payment
rates have also. Donetsk officials estimate that 30-40% of residents do not pay on time and that 15-20% never pay. 35-
4055 of the housing in Donetsk has been privatized, but this. does not affect charges paid by residents.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
12.   Formerly, a few apartments each year were built in the Raion for the Donetskugol
Association, which gave money for apartment construction to the City of Donetsk. The city built
housing and distributed it to various entities in proportion to the capital they had contributed.
However, even this construction has stopped. Neither have apartments been built recently for the
Raion's own waiting list, for people who do not work for one of the enterprises. The last people to
receive apartments from the Raion list were people who had been waiting since 1976. At least half
the people on the Raion list are pensioners. The only apartment distributions occur when a resident
emigrates or dies without heirs.
13.   Miners and retirees living in housing without central heating receive free coal, either 5.9 mt
or 2.9 mt, depending on the quality of the coal.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
KRASNIY OKTYABR MINE - YENAKIEVO
1.    The City of Yenakievo (pop. 183,200) is subordinated directly to Donetsk Oblast. It has no
raions, and thus the city administration is the organ of local government which will assume re-
sponsibility for maintenance and operation of housing, kindergartens, and other social infrastructure.
It has a somewhat diversified economy, with relatively better mines and other industries (especially
metallurgy) that provide some capacity to absorb redundant coal sector workers.
1. Technical Issues
2.    This mine is located in the Central Donbas, where the coal seams are steeply inclined, mining
conditions most difficult and production costs highest. Mine development and coal extraction have
been stopped. The mine continues to pump water in order to protect neighboring mines from
flooding. Since those mines are also uneconomic and have to be closed soon, a low-cost scheme for
temporary continuation of water pumping from Krasniy Octyabr has been designed. The capital costs
for this scheme have been included for financing under the proposed loan; the operating costs after
completion of the project would be covered by UDKR until the neighboring mines are closed. Apart
from the water pumping scheme, the closing process of the Krasniy Octyabr mine is uncomplicated
and low-cost.
2. Social Infrastructure
3.    The following social assets are associated with the Krasniy Oktyabr mine:
-     46,000 square meters of housing
-     3 boilers, with 2.7 km of heating pipe
-     8.1 km of sewer mains
-     three kindergartens, with 320 places, and an enrollment of 256 children
-     one dormitory
-     one cultural facility, with a total capacity of 350
-     two sport complexes
4.    The housing associated with the Krasniy Oktyabr mine is a standard mining settlement,
consisting mostly of one story detached houses and a few two story buildings. 60% have no
communal services, such as water and sewer. This is typical of the housing in many mining
settlements, and is considered considerably less desirable than multi-family apartment buildings,
almost all of which have water, sewer, heating, and other utilities. The city is now considering a
specific program to transfer these mine-owned houses to the city administration, and expect that this



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
will be done, but know that this will mean an additional operating burden on their already strained
city budget. Only 30% of the cost of providing housing and communal services is now covered by
user charges. A single housing maintenance committee ("ZhEK") now serves both the Krasniy
Profintern and Krasniy Oktyabr mines.
5.     City housing officials would like to try to encourage residents of detached, one-story homes to
privatize. However, as elsewhere in Ukraine, the legal obligation of the city or enterprise to
completely renovate ("remont") housing prior to privatization is a barrier. At this point some 36% of
the housing in the city as a whole has been privatized, but administrators believe this figure is much
lower with the mine housing, which is older and in worse condition.
6.     Three of the four kindergartens formerly associated with the Krasniy Oktyabr mine have been
transferred to another mine (the Krasniy Profintern mine). One was apparently leased for business
uses. These three or four kindergartens can be transferred to the city, adding to the city's existing 25
kindergartens.
7.     The city has, at least in theory, merged all of the social infrastructure of the Krasniy Oktyabr
mine with those of the Krasniy Profintern mine, including kindergartens, housing, palaces of culture,
and even the housing waiting list. They believe they have already rationalized kindergarten
operations to the extent possible, combining different kindergartens and closing those in deteriorated
buildings. Children are enrolled where there is room, without regard to their parents' employment.
The transfer of social assets from unprofitable mines to other mines, or to the city administration, is
an ongoing process throughout the Donbas region. City officials feel that inter-mine transfers are not
a real solution. It does not remove the costs from the industry, nor does it solve any problems more
than temporarily since most of the mines in the area are threatened.
3. Labor Issues
8.     The biggest single concern city officials expressed regarding the mine closure is the potential
unemployment problem, especially for women. Some ten percent of mine workers are women which
specific skills (clerical, personnel) that are not readily transferable to other mines (as they have
sufficient surface workers). City officials believe that most underground workers can find jobs at
other mines. They estimate that some three to four hundred people will not be able to find other
employment.
4. Financial Impact
9.    Apart from the increased burden from operating loss-making housing, city officials do not
expect significant financial impacts from the closing of the Krasniy Oktyabr mine. City officials in
Yenakievo do not expect their tax revenues to go down significantly when the Krasniy Oktyabr mine
closes. They report that the city receives essentially no tax payments from the OrdzhonikidzeUgol,
the mining association of which K.O. is a part. There is no revenue from value added tax (VAT)
because there is no VAT on coal. The City receives no enterprise profit taxes because the enterprises
are all loss-making. The only revenues the city does receive from the mining association are some
payments on land and some payments for communal services. There may be some indirect lost



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
individual income tax revenue from the three to four hundred workers who the city anticipates will
not find other jobs.
10.    The city owes significant debts which it cannot pay because of lack of revenues, and is owed
significant debts by enterprises located in the city, including coal enterprises.
5. Other Social Commitments
11.    The mine has a list of some 300 people who are theoretically entitled to housing. Those
waiting the longest have been on the list since the list since the mid-1980s, and will not want to lose
their place in line as they transfer to new jobs. The mine list is perceived as better than the city's
own list, because the city's list has people who have been waiting since 1978.' Although city officials
have theoretically moved people from the Krasniy Oktyabr waiting list to the Krasniy Profmtern mine
list (a neighybouring mine). Overall, there are some 6,000 people on various city and enterprise
waiting lists in Yenakievo, of whom approximately 2,000 are on the city's own list.
12.    City officials expect to move the names of the Krasniy Oktyabr mine workers from the mine's
list to the city's list when it closes. During the last three years, the mine has not built any new
housing and has not paid the city to build any new housing. For the last two years, the city itself has
built only some 4,000 square meters of housing per year.
1/ Those persons on the housing waiting lists are not homeless. They are living in crowded situations, with relatives, or in
other situations that are recognized as inadequate.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
UIRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
THE REMOVSKAYA MINE -- SNEZHNOYE
1.    Like Yenakievo, the City of Snezhnoye (population 95,600) is a city of oblast subordination,
and has no internal raions. Although the city is physically closer to Lugansk, it is part of the Donetsk
oblast, and its economic life is integrated with the Donetsk oblast. The city grew out of a collection
of settlements clustered around mines. Its housing is predominantly village-style cottages with a few
low-rise multiple family units. The housing stock is the oldest of the three cities, and the city has the
least diversified economy. There is little employment which is not related to the coal industry, and
the other mines in the region are generally also old and provide little opportunity for absorbing redun-
dant miners. This is the most remote of the three communities affected by the pilot project, and the
most dependent on the mines.
2.    The Removskaya mine has been in operation since the 1950s. The mine itself employs 1401
workers, of whom 939 work underground. Production has been decreasing, and mine managers are
well aware that the mine has nearly exhausted its resources.
3.    By contrast with Yenakievo, the older mines in Snezhnoye produce anthracite coal which is
used only for heating homes and has little commercial value. The mines in Yenakievo produce
coking coal, for which there is at least some demand. Snezhnoye administrators point out that the
city of Yenakievo is a younger city with a more diverse industrial base, specifically the metallurgical
factory located there.
1. Technical Issues
4.    Removskaya Mine. This mine is located near the southern rim of the Donbas basin where
anthracite coal prevails. A shrinking market for anthracite and depleted coal reserves require closing
of this mine. The coal reserves originally planned for exploitation have been depleted years ago and
the mine has been surviving by recovering coal, in an improvised way, from pillars left behind and
by starting mining in a thinner coal seam at higher costs. These operations are not sustainable and the
mine should therefore be stopped, even though its present production costs are not among the highest.
From the viewpoint of physical closure, the Removskaya mine is the simplest of all three mines and is
problem-free.
2. Social Infrastructure
5.    The social assets associated with the Removskaya mine are shown in Table 1. The mine
housing is old, and is disparagingly referred to as being 3 stories or less. In Ukraine, multi-family
apartments are usually considered more desirable than detached "village-style" housing. Some of the
City's housing dates from 1905, and has not been renovated since. It is generally not served with



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
municipal gas lines or other communal services. 40% of the city's housing is connected to sewer
lines, while the majority uses outhouses.
6.    The Snezhnoye city administration has two ZhEks. One spends 80,000 krb annually per
square meter for maintenance. The other spends 95,000 krb. By contrast, the mine ZhEK spends
some 150,000 krb per square meter. City officials believe this is due to the dilapidated condition of
mine housing, and the fact that it is inefficient single-family detached housing, not because it is
maintained to a higher standard. The city administration has eight boilers serving its housing stock,
while the mining association has 45 separate boilers to maintain for its housing. Because of these
problems, and because it does not want to inherit the renovation responsibilities for this housing, the
city administration is reluctant to take over the mine housing.
7.     All of the housing is maintained officially on the books of the TorresAntrasit mining
association as a whole. None is officially associated with a particular mine, though physically, it is.
The TorresAntrasit association owns 406 thousand square meters of housing in Snezhnoye (some
1,700 houses), slightly less than a quarter of the city's total housing stock of 1,770 thousand square
meters. Some 37% of the city's housing stock is reportedly privatized, and city officials believe the
same percentage of mine housing has been privatized.
8.    Each mine has its own electric substation which serves housing. These substations step down
the voltage from the high levels used for transmission mains to levels suitable for domestic use. If
the mines close, the city or the local electric enterprise will have to take over operation and
maintenance of these substations. Transportation is a problem for kindergartens. People cannot send
their children to kindergartens 5 to 10 kilometers away in another settlement. Because of distance,
city officials do not see much opportunity for rationalizing kindergarten operations by combining
operations.
9.     As elsewhere in Ukraine, user charges cover perhaps 30% of the cost of providing housing
and communal services, but the city's large population of pensioners pays only 10% of the normal
rate, so the cost recovery problem is compounded by the aging population.
3. Labor Issues
-      face workers
other underground workers
surface workers associated with the mine
10.   City officials are very concerned about employment opportunities for mine workers once the
Removskaya mine is closed. Inevitably, they know, at least three other similar mines in the city will



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
also have to close. Both city and mine officials feel that the right answer would be to establish a new
enterprise, perhaps a manufacturing enterprise, at the mine site.
11.    With four neighboring mines also slated for closure in the next 2-3 years, the city officials
envision 10,000 potentially unemployed residents. The city of Snezhnoye grew out of a collection of
eleven separate settlements surrounding specific mines. These sub-communities are 5 to 7 kilometers
apart. The city is some 30 kilometers across. Each community was always more or less reliant on
the mine for communal services, distribution of goods, and other municipal functions. The people
living in the Removskaya region do not have good public transportation links to the rest of the city,
let alone other cities in the area. Although the city is physically closer to Lugansk, its economic and
transportation links are with Donetskaya oblast, of which it is a part. There is no train transportation
for workers to get to jobs in Lugansk oblast or other regions.
12.   Seven mines have already been closed in Snezhnoye, though their settlements remain. The
Soviet-era policy when closing of mines was to plan new production at the site, but in fact this has
not worked, and these isolated settlements are dilapidated.
13.   Transportation is one of the biggest issues for this city. The city pays some 60 billion krb to
a State enterprise for municipal bus service, since the Government requires cities to make up
operating losses from transport services. But the losses result in part from the low levels at which the
Government sets the fares, and are exacerbated by the fact that some 15 privileged categories of
citizens pay no fares or only token amounts.
4. Financal Impact
14.   As with other cities, the base-line financial condition of Snezhnoye is in poor condition. The
city of Snezhnoye's 1995 budget was originally set at 980 billion krb ($5.4 million US dollars), but
was reduced by the oblast to 580 billion krb. Of this, the city was supposed to receive some 330
billion krb in revenues, principally the so-called regulating revenues, and 250 billion krb in subsidies
from the oblast. However, this budget does not correspond with reality. For example, at the time of
our visit, the city of Snezhnoye owed suppliers some 108 billion krb in unpaid debts, principal among
these some 40 billion krb for water service and some 45 billion krb for energy. Enterprises owed the
city some 40 billion in unpaid taxes.
15.   The city officials do not see a direct financial impact from the closing of the mines, because
they receive few revenues from the mines. As previously mentioned, there is no VAT on coal. In
the case of Snezhnoye, any enterprise profit taxes would be paid to the city of Torres, where the
TorresAntrasit mining association is headquartered, rather than to the city of Snezhnoye where the
mine is located. The city has been taking on more and more civic obligations from the mines as their
financial picture has worsened, leaving the city in extreme financial distress. There is no money for
solid waste disposal, drainage, or sanitation.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
5. Other Sodal Commitments
16.    All municipal and enterprise lists in the city include some 4,500 people. 1,280 of these are
on the city's list, 190 on the Voskhod mine list. Each mine maintains its own list. The people who
have been on both the city's and the mine's list the longest have been waiting since 1978.
17.   Until three years ago, each enterprise in the city gave the city money for housing
construction. The city did the construction and assigned units in proportion to the capital contributed.
But, as in Yenakievo, the enterprises have stopped paying these construction funds, and the city has
stopped construction. At present, the only way for a person on the waiting list to get an apartment is
if a resident leaves town or dies without an heir.
18.   The mine is also supposed to fund "disability" payments worth 160 billion krb per year.
Because the mine cannot pay, the TorresAntrasit Association has been making some payments, but the
City says the Association is now 630 billion krb in arrears ($3.5 million U.S. dollars), and that figure
is growing. City officials are concerned that if the mine is closed, there will be no payments made
into the city's pension fund. The oblast, which had been making up the shortfall, has notified the city
that after the end of 1995 they will be unable to help the city meet pension obligations. Pensioners
are receiving 20% less than their entitlements, because of the shortfall in available funds. Roughly
thirty percent of the 100,000 residents of Snezhnoye are pensioners. City officials were quite
concerned about what mechanism can be set up to cover these recurring expenditures.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 11
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
AND MITIGATION OPTIONS
Note: This table lists features, impacts and mitigation options which generally apply to closing of underground coal mines. Items relevant to the
three mines under the pilot project are highlighted in italics. The purpose of this table is to provide a checklist for the preparation of the
environmental Management Plan of the three mines.
NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL
PHYSICAL FEATURES                                           IMPACTS                              MITIGATION OPTIONS
Terracones and Rock Piles                                  Air Oualitv                          Air Oualitv
Waste rock produced from the mine is dumped in                       Sulphur Oxides
cone shaped piles. The pile may also contain coal,                      Particles
timber, fabric and possibly scrap metal.  Many of                       Methane                    *  Extinguish heatings in waste piles.
these waste piles have heated spontaneously and are                  Carbon Oxides
burning with release of gases and smoke.                           Oxides of Nitrogen              *   Level terracones.
Note: According to the Ukrainian design institutes, *   Strong sulphurous odours.                  *  Keep terracones and piles wet.
only one terracone (at the Removskaya mine) is
burning among all terracones and rock piles of the *   Chemical reaction with sunlight creates ground  *  Supply air packs.
three mines under the pilot project.                 level smog.
*   Move most susceptible members of community.
* Harmful to human breathing especially
asthmatics.                                      *   Encourage resistant plants and animals.
*   Can kill animal and plant life.              *   Develop greenhouse gas offsets.
*   Poor visibility for air and ground traffic.  *  Revegetate.
*   Contributes  to  potential for global climate
change.
* Aesthetics imnpaired.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 11
,EOAIW E - - E i .Ni:  V - 7 ! . E .: E - -   ....:: -  .  N-.-M E E   E  ::  E  :   ::   . i, -   E.:.E.:.:...i
Termcones and Rock Pies                                 Surface Water Ouslt                         Surface Water Ouallv
Sulphur Acids                  *       Determnine background surface watcr quaLi and
Steep side slopes and various sizes of material leads to                Alkaline Salts                          sources of swface water contamination.
erodibility from rain and snow melt. Runoff contains                   Suspended Solids                *        Prevent water ruoff into surface streams.
solids and possibly chemical contaminants.                              Heavy Metals                   *        Collect and treat rnmoff.
*Create ponds and lakes for untreatable runoff.
*    Reduced ability to support fish or other  *        Cover erodible areas.
aquatic life.                                      *        Bury fines.
*       Bury and/or seal acidifying material.
*    Contamination risk for domestic water     *        Neutralize acids or alkealies.
........ ..supplies.                                                *        Treat water for domestic use.
*       Review current quality standards for mine water
*    Cumulative contamination of rivers, lakes          released from settlement ponds.
and ponds.                                         *        Monitor water quality and discharge rates.
*         Build bulrush water filter beds.
*       Develop  streams and ponds for sport fishing.
*       Re-introduce fish and plants to streams and ponds.
*       Haul in water for human consutption.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 11
NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL
PHYSICAL FEATURES                                         IMPACTS                              MITIGATION OPTIONS
Terracones and Rock Piles                             Groundwater Quality                       Groundwater Quality
(Cont'd)
*   Leachate could  be introduced  into the *         Collect and treat leachate.
The leachate produced by water infiltrating through groundwater flow system.
the sites constitutes a potential source of groundwater                                            *       Monitor groundwater quality in the vicinity of
contamination..                                                                                            surface disturbances.
*       Restrict groundwater source development in
regions highly susceptible to contamination.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 11
N 'EGATMVE ANION                   TL:
l:E..::    :.:::::R::I:  :-p fmE    i: EAT: I:i:  : M :: :.::   .... .. .  :   :.  impR                                           .... ....; ..:EE.   ::::::
PHYSICAL FE  TURES                              IM~~~~.. ...p ACTS..    . ..          MTGAON PT)
Tailiines Ponds                                  Surface Water Qualitv                       Surface Water Oualitv
Sludge or waste water containing soil and rock fines                   Sulphur Acids                     *   Determine background surface water quality and
are produced from  mines and preparation plants.                       Alkaline Salts                sources of surface water contamination.
Sludge is collected in settling ponds where the fines                 Suspended Solids                   *   Prevent water runoff into surface streams.
settle out.  Water discharging from  settling ponds                    Heavy Metals                      *   Collect and treat runoff.
carry  and  suspended  solids and  often chemical                                                        *   Create ponds and lakes for untreatable runoff.
contaminants.                                          *   Reduced ability to support fish or other      *   Cover erodible areas.
aquatic life.                                         *   Bury fines.
Bury and/or seal acidif*ig miaterial.
Note: Water discharge from all three mines under the   *   Contamination  risk  of domestic  water            Neutralize acids or alkalies.
pilot project (or, possibly, reduced in the case of the supplies.                                         *   Treat water for domestic use.
Krasni Octiabr mine).                                                                                     *   Review current quality standards for mine water
* Cumulative contamination of rivers, lakes released from settlement ponds.
and ponds.                                            *   Monitor water quality and discharge rates.
*   Build bulrush water filter beds.
*   Deterioration of surface waters produced by   *    Develop streams and ponds for sport fishing.
decreased mine water release. The mine water may      *    Re-introduce fish and plants to streams and ponds.
be less contaminated than surface water.              *   Haul in water for human consumption.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 11
--- .- --NEGATIVE ENVIRONMNTAL                  |
PHYSICAL FEATURES                                        IMPACTS..                           MMGATION OPTIONS
Tailinis Ponds                                 Groundwater Oualitv                      Groundwater Ouality
Cont'd)
*   Potential contamination  of groundwater *       Monitor groundwater quality in the vicinity of
Sludge or waste water containing soil and rock fines resource caused by mining disruption of protective  surface disturbances.
are produced from  mines and preparation plants. cover.
Sludge is collected in settling ponds where the fines                                           *       Drain ponds and cap sludge in the settling ponds
settle out.  Water discharging from settling ponds  *   Rapid  distribution   of  groundwater           to reduce infiltration.
carry chemical contaminants and suspended solids.   contamination through mine workings.
*       Monitor for coliforms.
Note: As water discharge from the three mines under                                             *       Prohibit domestic water wells in regions highly
the pilot project is being, stopped, risk of groundwater                                                susceptible to contamination.
quality deterioration due to discharge from ponds is
expected to disappear.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 11
... ......           NSATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL.
:::~;:PHYSICAL KEAMM1~S                                     I  .ACT                             MITIGATO    PION
Underground Workings Closed                           Safety and Air Quality                   Safety and Air Oualitv
When underground workings are closed, methane gas                     Methane                   *       Monitor risk zones for methane accumulation.
may be trapped, groundwater can build up and
subsidence or open pits can pose significant danger to  *   Risk of asphyxiation of people in conflned *  If required, drill methane vent holes.
humans and animals.                             spaces.
Note: Risk of methane gas escaping from old mine    *   Risk of explosive conditions in depressions,
workings exists mainly at the Krasni Octiabr mine underground cavities and basements of houses in risk
and, to a lesser degree, at the Pravda mine.    zones.
Drilling and mining has produced openings which                Surface Water Ouality                    Surface Water Ouality
extend to surface and provide conduits for rapid
transport of surface spills deep into the groundwater                  Alkalis                  *       Improve surface drainage.
flow system.                                                           Acids
Metals
Once a number of mines have been closed, mines                    Suspended Solids
located at a higher elevation will discharge
groundwater into the mines located at a lower       *   Leachate from abandoned tailings, wastes.
elevation and cause them to flow to surface.
*   Loss of an industrial water source.
Most of the groundwater previously pumped from an
abandoned mine will spill over into operating mines.  *   Surface flooding caused by abandoned mine
discharge. This impact will not occur until blocks of
mining operations are closed.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 11
. . ........ ..........NE.A TIVEb ENVIRNMETAL....
PIHICAL EM A                                                                                   MIIGATION OPTIONS
Underground Workinzs Clsed                             Groundwater Oualitv                       Groundwater Oualitv
(Cont'd)
Flooding                  *        Decrease surface water infiltration rates for both
The groundwater flow system near existing water                     Contaminants From Surface             abandoned and operating mines by backflhling
wells may change as water levels in the vicinity of the                                                   near surface mine workings and drill holes.
mines recover.                                      *   Mine water spillovers from abandoned mines *      Monitor  groundwater  recovery  levels  in
into operating mines through interconnected workings.    abandoned mine.
*       Abandon mines in blocks rather than individually.
* Mine water spill over will place," an
increasing water handling and treatment burden on the *  Increase pumping capacity of adjacent mines.
remaining operating mines.                       *       Develop  an  alternate  source  of water for
industries, (ie, wash plants) currently using mine
*   Current water supply systems could become        water.
more susceptible to contamination.               *       Identify water supply systems influenced by
mining activity.
*       Monitor water quality of existing groundwater
sources.
*       Continue some limited pumping at the mine to
prevent contaminant movement toward existing
systems.
*       Continue to pump the abandoned mine and
continue to use the water treatment facilities.
Safetv
*       Seal off underground cavities.
*       Prohibit entry to area.



ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 11
I  NEGATIVE ENVTSMIRONTIONTATION
PHYSICAL FEATURES                                           IMPACT                               MTGATINOPIN
Buildmnas and Structures                             Waste Materials/Safety                     Waste Materials/Safety
Old and abandoned buildings are potential safety                      Waste Metals                  *        Demolish all old and unused structures.
hazards, may contain hazardous materials (PCB's,              Waste Brick, Concrete, Asbestos
oils, asbestos, acids, alkalies) and contain solid                    Waste Asphalt                 *        Sort materials for reuse and sale.
residues.
*       Hazardous structures.                     *       Landfill inert waste.
Note: The three mines under the pilot project have not
been handling significant amounts of chemicals.   *        Hazardous wastes left after demolition.  *        Contain hazardous and toxic waste.
The surface areas occupied by mine buildings such as  *   Solid wastes may occupy significant landfill *     Maintain monitoring on highly contaminated sites.
offices, work shops, warehouses etc., and handling volume.
facilities, may  have  become  contaminated  with                                                   *        Restrict access where conditions hazardous.
accumulated spills and disposal of liquids.       *       Aesthetics.



ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 11
.NEGATIVE ENRONMENTAL
PHYSICAL FEATURES                                        IMPACTS                             MIGATION OPTONS
Solid/Liquid Wastes and                             SolidlLiquid Wastes                     Solid/Liquid Wastes
Surface Soils
Oils                    *       Prevent furdter additions of most deleterious
Decommissioning and abandonment of industrial and                     Greases                           contaminants.
commercial property normally includes quantities of                    Acids
solid and liquid wastes (wood, metals, chemicals,                     Alkalies                  *       Prevent oil spills and control waste oil disposal.
plastics, construction materials). Often storage sites               Chemicals
contain large quantities of unidentified mixtures of oils     Wood, Metals, Aggregates          *       Develop secondary uses for used petroleum
and other liquids. Sewage lagoons may be included.                    Sewage                            liquids and sewage.
Industrial areas are frequently contaminated over large  *   Soil contaminated with oils, chemicals.  *  Dispose coal washery fines in designated ponds.
areas due to incremental pollution. Top soil may have  *   Leaching into groundwater and domestic
been physically removed for development or has been     supplies (health risk)  -
progressively eroded in both quantity and quality.  *   Storage of unidentWied materials.
Note: The three mines under the pilot project have not
been handling signficant amounts of chemicals.



ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 11
e   ::  :   7:::   7  7:   :   .   ::   7::::   : .   :::   i   .   7  :: ::   :::   :.:....  ..   ...    .  .    .   .  .....
...  ...      :: . ..   .    .... .   ::.: NE.ATIVB ENVIRONMENTAL :
PHYSICAL FEATURES                          ~~~~~~~~IMACTS:                       MITIGATION.OTIN
Solid/Liquid Wastes and                                 Soil Reclamation                       Soil Reclamation
Surface Soils (Cont'd)
Degraded Topsoil               *       Recontour.
Decommissioning and abandonment of industrial and                Contaminated Subsoil
commercial property normally includes quantities of                Poor Soil Structure             *       Addition of organic mnatter.
solid and liquid wastes (wood, metals, chemicals,
plastics, construction materials). Often storage sites  *   Soil structure unable to sustain vegetation.   *  Revegetate.
contain large quantities of unidentified mixtures of oils
and other liquids. Sewage lagoons may be included.   *   Limitation  or prevention  of vegetation *        Construct wind breaks.
growth including agricultural crops.
Industrial areas are frequently contaminated over large                                            *       Treat contaminants to neutralize.
areas due to incremental pollution. Top soil may have  *   Recreation and aesthetic impairment.
been physically removed for development or has been                                                *       Contain and seal off most severely contaminated
progressively eroded in both quantity and quality.   *   Erodible slopes.                                  soil.
*   Lost topsoil from wind and water erosion.   *     Irrigate to dilute contaminants.
Note: The three mflines wader the pilot project have not
been handling significant amounts of chemicals.                                                    *       Add nutrients to overcome contaminant effects.
*       Treat sewage streams.



ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 11
NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL
PHYSICAL FEATURES                                         IMPACTS                    |        MITIGATION OPTIONS
Tailing Piles                                     Air/Water/Soil                        Air and Water
The fine tailings from many years of mine operations                    Fines                    *        Level and contour.
are stored at site. Tailings piles may include topsoil,                Metals
overburden, underground dross and residue from coal                 Rock and Soil                *        Keep piles wet.
separation and cleaning operations.
*       Wind erosion from exposed faces.        *        Cultivate and revegetate.
Note: Only one of the three mines under the pilot
project (Removskaya) had a coal washing plant. That *    Water erosion of steeper slopes and fines.   *   Build wind breaks.
plant had not a fine coal washing section (flotation)
and has not been using chemical reagents.           *   Contributes  to  surface  water  quality *        Create ponds for untreatable runoff.
contamination.
*       Neutralize hazardous contaminants.
*   Reduces  land  surface  available  for
productive use.                                          Soi
*   Aesthetic disfigurement.                 *       Cultivate.
*       Add organic material.
*       Build wind breaks.
*       Revegetate.
Recoverable Material
*       Separate economically valuable materials.
*       Seek out uses/markets for valuable materials.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
Social Portrait of a Miner
I. Background
The study was conducted by the Agency for Regional Development and the Regional
Service for Social Studies of Donetsk in December 1994. The purpose of the study was to
investigate the social and economic conditions in the coal mining sector in the Donetskaya
Oblast during the transition to the market economy. Data was collected in interviews with 635
coal mine employees living in the cities of Donetsk, Khartsizk, Shakhtarsk and Torrez. The
figures below summarize occupations of the interviewees.
Occupations of the interviewees
Admin.   Mgnm
woikers   team
Engineers     4%       2%
12%
Under
grund
Surface                         workers
workers                          70%
12%
II. Findings
*  Attractiveness of the mining profession is high (50% of the interviewees take pride in their
mining profession, compared with 34 % who said they are unsatisfied).
*  Reasons for changing careers to the coal mining sector For who entered from other
industries, reasons for choosing jobs in the coal industry include: lack of other job
opportunities in the region (43%), better wages (26%), preference for a mining specialty,
and family tradition (12%).
*  Reasons for choosin8g car           The respondents who started careers in the mining
industry have mentioned the following reasons for choosing mining specialties: good wages
(61 %), influence of relatives (20%) and friends (7%), location of a mine close to home
(17%), early retirement (15%) and availability of an educational facility (10%).



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Reasons for Choosing a Career in Mining
Influence of friends
Education facility
Early retirenrnt
Close location
Influence of relatives
Good wages                                           -
V.
0      10     20     30      40     50     60      70
% of respondents
*  Working Conditions Working conditions in the mines are generally described by the
employees as unsatisfactory (77 % of respondents rated equipment as poor and 44% rated
labor safety as unsatisfactory).
* Responsibility for the state of mines As shown below, 63 % of the respondents stated that
the general manager bears direct responsibility for the state of mines, followed by the
Government (35%) and the Mining Association (25%). However, respondents believe that
the settlement of problems related to poor conditions should be initiated directly on the
level of the mines.
Responsibility for the State of Mines
Miners  Difficult to
themselves  answer      Government
10%      3%             23%
M ming
Association
16%                                   Oblast
administration
6%
Trade Unions
2%            Director of the
Mine
40%
*  Key factors for improvement of the mine performance Forceful managers (64%),
imnplementation of new technologies (44%) and increasing the labor efficiency are rated as
the key factors for improving performance of the mines. General managers of mines are
trusted by employees, who believe that they have enough power to enact changes, being
sufficiently backed by authorities and their own experience.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Key Eactors for improvement of the mine
performance
Difficult to    New
Labor     Other       answer  technologies
efficiency   10%                   28%
13%
Privatization                      Forceful
4%                              manager
42%
*  Expectations of changes in the state of mines The majority of respondents expect no
significant changes in the state of the mines. More than 20% of interviewees expect
worsening of working conditions (22 % in the area of equipment, 21 % staffing, and 25 % -
wages).
*  Mine Closure The closure of the mines is believed to be a doubtful if not remote
possibility (only 14% of respondents believed that their mines might be closed in near
future, while 68% stated that it seemed unlikely or completely improbable to them).
*  Attitude toward change of employment Miners feels themselves "held captive" by their
jobs and coal mines. Still 56 % of those interviewed wish to change their jobs.
-  Evaluation of-Chances for finding other jobs 58% of the respondents did not believe that
there were any chances to change their jobs.
*  Alternative occupations selected by respondents are depicted in the Figure below. 54% of
interviewees could not choose an alternative occupation.
Alternative jobs selected by respondents
Farmer
6%     Electrician Carpenter
Salesman           5 %      2%
6%
Auto mechanic
7%
Construction
worker     DNo response
8%        12%



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
AFFECTED AT-RISK POPULATIONS
Survey Purpose
A World Bank team of social scientists sought to identify the different groups of mine
workers in terms of their vulnerability to adverse consequences from the pilot mine closures. The
team used labor profile data, in-depth interviews and focus groups with above-ground and
underground miners, miners' families, mine pensioners, trade union representatives and mine
management.
Survey Sample
A total of 53 interviews were completed at the three mines included in the pilot project:
Pravda mine; Krasny Oktyabr mine; and Removskaya mine. The respondent sample was selected by a
trade union representative at each mine. The survey team received the full cooperation of the Oblast
administration and the mine management at the three mine.
Levels of risk
The analysis revealed four levels of risk. The definitions of these levels were informed by
answers of mine managers, trade union representatives and mine workers to two key questions: 1)
Who will be hit the hardest by the mine closing? 2) Who will adapt best to the impacts of mine
closure? Table 1 sununarizes these results.
Table 1
Risk Profile    Pravda         Krauy       Removskkaya        Towal
I__            -    ,'  .  ...    ,    : O ltyabr  _  - ,     . , - ' ,:
Highest Risk       183            56             0             239            5%
High Risk          408           565            462            1435          29%
At Risk            488           812            301            1601          33%
At Risk-           830            130           638            1508          33%
Mobile
Total                                                         4873



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Level One: Highest Risk
A woman, alone, with children, with 70% or more of the family income derived mine wages. This
person is clearly the most at risk of losing everything.
L.N'. is 35 years old, and has lived in the community all her life. She has two school age daughters.
Her ex-husband moved away and provides no child support. She has worked in the mine five years as
an unskilled above ground worker and earns $32 a month in total family income, all of which comes
from the mine. Her job will be one of the first to go and is not considered to be transferable to
another mine. She is very worried about how she will take care of her children.
Level Two: High Risk
Other above - ground workers comprise this category. As a general observation, above ground
workers are considered a highly vulnerable group of workers, not possessing particularly transferable
skills. All women staff work above - ground, and 83 % of total number of above - ground workers
(1389) are women; 17 % (285) are men.
V. C. is 60 years old and has lived 60 years in this community. She has worked 30 years in the same
mine. She currently works above-ground in the stockyard in an unskilled position. She and her
husband have a monthly family income of $64, which includes their pensions. Their family income is
closely tied to the mine and will be cut in half, to about $1 a day, when the mine closes. She is
frightened when she thinks about it closing. No one will hire her.
Level Three: At-risk
Underground workers in the engineering and other professions comprise this group. They are the
highest risk group of the underground workers.
V. G. is a 40 year man who has worked 25 years in the mine. He is an electrician underground and
earns $64 a month to support his wife and two school age children. He is totally dependent on the
mine - his wife is unemployed and 100% of the family monthly income comes from the mine. He has
no savings and worries that the mine closing is going to be a disaster for his family
Level Four: At Risk but mobile
Underground skilled workers (face miners, drifters, timberers/fitters and coat transport
workers). These workers have the best chance of adjusting to a mine closing. They are potentially the
most in demand for their skills and hence the most mobile
O.Z., 38, has worked underground in the mine for 19 years, most recently handling explosives. 75%
of his family income comes from the mine. His wife earns $18 a month working in the hospital and he
is worried that the hospital will close if the mine closes. He earns $88 a month. He is worried about
the future for his two sons - where will they work ? He has lived in the same community his whole life
and does not want to leave for another job. His skills raise considerably his chances of getting a new
job. "



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 9
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
IMPACT ON MUNICIPAL BUDGETS
1.    The social assets of the three mines set for closures comprise 238,500 sq. meter of housing, 8
kindergartens, 6 cultural facilities, 2 sports facilities and one profilactoria.
Housing
2.    The housing provided by the mines to its employees is managed by the mining associations
and its cost is comprised in the mining associations balance sheet. The housing transfer of the three
mines set for closures to the municipalities, will decrease the associations' housing cost as follows:
Pravda mine's housing transfer will decrease 10 percent of the total housing of Donetskugol mining
association, the Removskaya's mine housing will reduce 5 percent of the housing of Torezantratsit
association and mine Krasniy Octyabr 11 percent of the housing of Octyabrugol associations. The
attached tables show the percentage of housing to be transferred in relation to the existing housing in
receiving cities.
3.    The Pravda mine housing will be transferred to the communal property of the city of Donetsk
which manages the housing funded by the city budget. The Proletarsky Raion administration where
the Pravda mine is located has approval authority for the housing transfer but the housing is not
funded by the Raion budget. Housing associated with the mine represents 1 percent of the Donetsk
city housing.
Kindergartens
4.    Kindergartens owned by the mines are located in small rural settlements administratively
attached to the cities; the kindergartern belonging to the mine is usually the only one in each
settlement. These kindergartens provide services to all children of the community and some are open
24 hours daily. Fees are about Krb 600,000 per month (about $3.20 p.m.). Certain categories are
exempt from paying fees (e.g. single, unemployed mothers). As a result of mine closures, it is
expected that children's attendance will decrease by about 20 percent as parents who become
unemployed choose to keep their children at home, rather than pay the monthly fees. Some cost
reduction measures may be implemented by the municipalities such as discontinuing 24 hour service
and reducing some personnel (currently the payroll accounts for one-third of costs; food accounts for
one-third and utilities for one third).
Cultural and Sport Facilities
5.    Cultural and sport facilities owned and operated by the mines are the only of such facilities.
The facilities comprise theaters, libraries, sports rooms and meeting rooms. These facilities and
services could be restructured to increase community service and cost recovery.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 9
Profilactoria
6.    The Removskaya mine profilactory has a capacity of 75 beds, and provides miners with
preventive treatments for professional diseases during a stay of twelve to twenty four days. During
the treatment miners continue to work in the mine while they return to the profilactory for lodging,
food and treatment. The municipal health system does not provide such services. Profilactoria
facilities may be rationalized by discontinuing food and lodging services once the mine closes, and
moving medical treatments to the nearby municipal health clinic. The two floors building may be
used for other purposes by the municipality.
Transfer Cost
7.    The attached tables show inventory and yearly recurrent cost of the three mines's social
assets, as well as the total amount to be financed by the World Bank. The total recurrent costs
amounts to US$ 1,114,844 and three years of financing in a declining basis of 75 , 50 and 25 percent
will represent US$ 1,672,262.
City of Snezhnoye
8.    The comparison of 1995 municipal budget shows an increase in expenditures increase of 28
percent over the budgeted, which was covered by a treasury loan. The city's actual expenses for the
year 1995 were US$ 5.9 million with the shift in line items budgeted expenditures showing a decrease
in housing and an increase of expenses in education, health and culture.
9.    The transfer of the social assets of Removskaya mine would represent an increase of 7 percent
of the 1995 actual expenditures.
Yenakievo
10.   The comparison of 1995 municipal budget shows an increase of 18 percent of expenditure
over the budgeted, which was mostly covered by a two-fold increase of profit tax, and 51 percent of
wage tax. The city actual expenses for 1995 were US$ 10.3 million.
11.   The transfer of the social assets Krasniy Octyabr mine would represent an increase of 4
percent of 1995 actual city's expenditures.
Proletarsky Raion
12.   The raion's actual expenditures are 87 percent over the budget with a shortfall of US$ 6,151
million. The education and culture facilities represent less than 1 percent of the 1995 actual
expenditures.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 9
SNEZHNOYE SCENARIO 1: WITH CURRENT HOUSING DEFICIT 1996 AND BEYOND
City of Snezhnoye                       Mine Ramovseyay                 Consolidated            1996            1997          1998           1999
1995 Municipal budget                       Social assets    % to municipal expenditures
Mlanned       Actual    Variance    operating cost       budget
actual 1998
Assumptions
Change in wage taxes                                                                                                   1449,8231      (849.8231     (849.623)      (*49.6231
WB loan financing % Of social asset transfer                                                                            75.00%          50.00%        25.00%          0.00%
Housing cost recovery                                                                                            no change      no change      no change      no change
Revenues
VAT                            $276,347      $277.007     100%                                                        *277.007        $277,007      $277,007       $277,007
Profit tax                     $330,513      $657,593     199%                                                        *657.593        $657,593      $657,593       $657,593
Wage taxes                     $753,220   $1,035,800      138%                                                        $986,177        8986.177      8986,177       8986.177
Excise taxes                    $10,933        86.053      55%                                                          $6,053          $6,053        $6,053         $6,053
Land tax                       $350.51 3     8295.860      84%                                                        *295.860        $295,860      $295,860       $295,860
Other                          $757,147      8324.587      43%                                                        $324,587        8324.587      $324.587       $324,587
Subsidies                     $2,178,293   $2,178,293     100%                                                       $2,178,293     82,178.293    82,178.293    82.178.293
Treasury loan                         $0   $1,177,860                                                                $1,177,860     $1,177,860    81.177.860    $1.1 77.860
WB loan                                                                                                               $310,630        $207,087      $103,543             $0
Total                         $4,656,967   $ 5.953.053    128%                                                       $6,214,060     $6,110,517    $6,006,973    $5,903,430
Expenses
Housing                        8673.133      $558,647      83%            $172,460        30.88%        $731,007      8731.007        8731,007      8731.007       8731.007
Education                      $922,527   *1.757.940       191%           *158,647         9.02%      81.916.687     81.916.587     $1,916,587    $1,916,587    $1,916,587
Culture                        $106,980      *151,827     142%             $29,747        19.59%        $181,573      $181,573        $181,573      $181,573       $181,573
Health                        81,725.027   *2,205,907     128%             $53,320         2.41%      $2,262,227     82,262.227     $2,262,227    82.262.227    82.262,227
Other                         81,229,300   *1.242.027     101%                                        *1.242.027    $1,242,027      81.242.027    $1,242,027    81.242.027
Total                         $4,656,967   $5,919,247      127%           *414,173         7.00%      86.333.420     *6.333.420     $6,333,420    $6,333,420    86.333,420
Shortfall/(Surplus)                                                                                                   $119,360        *222.903      $326,447       8429.990
% shortfall (+) or surplus (-                                                                                               2%              4%            5%             7%
Exchange rate one US dollar - 150000 Krb.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 9
SNEZHNOYE SCENARIO 2: WITH FULL HOUSING COST RECOVERY 1997 AND BEYOND
City of Snezhnoye                      Mine Removskaya                 Consolidated            1996           1997          1998           1999
1995 Municipal budget                      Social assets    % to municipal expenditures
Planned       Actual    Variance    operating cost      budget
actual 1995
Assumptions
Change in wage taxes                                                                                                 ($49.623)      ($49,623)     (*49,623)     ($49,623)
WB loan financing % of social asset transfer                                                                          75.00%         50.00%         25.00%         0.00%
Housing cost recovery                                                                                                 60.00%         100.00%       100.00%       100.00%
Revenues
VAT                            *276,347     *277,007     100%                                                       $277.007        $277,007      $277,007      S277,007
Profit tax                     $330,513     *657.593     199%                                                       *667.593        $667.593      $657,593      $657,593
Wage taxes                     $753,220   S1,035,800     138%                                                       $986,177        $986,177      $986,177      $986,177
Excise taxes                    *10,933       66,053      55%                                                         $6,053          $6,053        $6,053        $6,053
Land tax                       $350,513     $295,860      84%                                                       $295,860        $295,860      $295,860      0295,860
Other                          $757,147     $324,587      43%                                                       $324,587        *324,587      $324,587      $324,587
Subsidies                    $2,178,293   $2,178,293     100%                                                      *2,178,293     $2,178,293    $2,178,293    $2,178,293
Treasury loan                        $0   *1,177,860                                                               $1,177,860     S1.177.860    $1,177,860    *1,177,860
WB loan                                                                                                             $310,630        $207,087      $103,543            $0
Total                        $4,656,967   $5,953,053     128%                                                      *6,214,060     $6,110,517    *6,006,973    *5,903,430
Expenses
Housing                        *673,133     t658,547      83%           $172,460         30.88%       S731,007      *292,403              $0            *0            $0
Education                      $922,527   *1,757,940     191%           *158,647          9.02%     $1,916,587    S1,916,587      S1.916,587    $1,916,587    $1,916,587
Culture                        $106,980     $151,827     142%            *29,747         19.59%       $181,573      $181,573        $181,573      $181,573      $181,573
Health                       $1,725,027   *2,208,907     128%            $53,320          2.41%     *2.262,227    *2,262,227      $2,262,227    *2.262.227    02,262,227
Other                        $1,229,300   *1,242,027     101%                                       *1,242,027    S1,242,027      *1,242.027    *1.242,027    *1,242,027
Total                        *4.656.967   *5,919,247     127%           *414,173          7.00%     $6,333.420    *5,894,816      *5.602,413    *5,602,413    95,602,413
ShortfaflSurpkusj                                                                                                  (*319,244)      (*608,103)    (*404,560)    (*301,017)
% shortfall (+1 or surpkus ()                                                                                             -5%            -8%           -7%           -5%
Exchane rate one US dolr - 150000 Krb.



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 9
YENAKIEVO SCENARIO 1: WITH CURRENT HOUSING DEFICIT 1996 AND BEYOND
Yenakievo                   Mine Krasnay Oktyabr             Consolidated            1996           1997           1998  1999
1995 Municipal budget                Social assets    % to municipal expenditures
Planned       Actual    Variance    operating cost      budget
actual 1995
Assumptions
Chanige in wage taxes                                                                                                (56,070)        (56.070)      (56.070)       (56,070)
WB loan financing % of social asset transfer                                                                          75.00%          50.00%        25.00%         0.00%
Housing cost recovery                                                                                          no change     no change       no change     no change
Revenues
VAT                          $1,169,007   $1,396,133     119%                                                      $1,396,133     $1,396,133    $1,396,133    $1,396,133
Profit tax                     $905,487   $2,217,320     245%                                                      $2,217,320     $2,217,320    $2,217,320    $2,217,320
Wage taxes                   $1,382,060   $2,091,633     151%                                                      $2,035,564     $2,035,564    $2,035,564    $2,035,584
Excise taxes                    $26,360      $12,907      49%                                                        $12.907         $12,907       $12.90?       $12.90?
Land tax                     $1,529,960   $1,739,587     114%                                                      $1,739,587     $1,739,587    $1,739,587    $1,739.58?
Other                        $1,784,127     $875,913      49%                                                       $875,913        $875,913      $875,913      $875,913
Subsidies                    $1,940,693   $1,940,693     100%                                                      $1,940,693     $1,940,693    $1,940,693    $1,940,693
Treasury loan
WB loan                                                                                                             $305,845        $203,897      $101,948            $0
Total                        $8,737,693  $10,274.18?     118%                                                     $10,523,962    $10,422,014   $10,320,065   $10.21 8,117
Expenses
Housing                                   $1,365,360                    $198,413         14.53%     $1,583,773    $1,563,773      $1,563,773    $1,563,773    $1,563,773
Education                                 $2,774,030                    $121,680          4.39%     $2,895,710    $2,895,710      $2,895,710    $2,895,710    $2,895,710
Cutture                                     $410,967                     $87,700         21.34%       $498,667      $498,667        $498,667      $498,667      $498,667
Health                                    $4,726,126                                                $4,726,126    $4,726,126      $4,726,126    $4,726,126    $4,726,126
Other                                       $997,703                                                  $997,703      $997,703        $997,703      $997,703      $997,703
Total                        $8,737,693  $10,274,187     118%           $407,793          3,97%    410,681,980   $10,681,980    $10,681,980   $10,681,980   $10,681,980
Shortfall/(Surplus)                                                                                                 $158,018        $259,966      $361,915      $463,863
% shortfall (+) or surplus (-                                                                                             2%              2%            4%            5%



ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 9
YENAKIEVO SCENARIO 2: WITH FULL HOUSING COST RECOVERY 1997 AND BEYOND
Yenakievo                    Mine Krasniy Oktyabr             Consolidated            1996            1997          1998  1999
1995 Municipal budget                Social assets    % to municipal expenditures
Planned       Actual    Variance    operating cost       budget
actual 1995
Assumptions
Change in wage taxes                                                                                                    (56.070)       (56,070)      (56,070)       j56,070)
WB loan financing % of social asset transfer                                                                            75.00%          50.00%        25.00%          0.00%
Housing cost recovery                                                                                                   60.00%         100.00%       100.00%        100.00%
Revenues
VAT                           $1,169,007   81,396,133     119%                                                       $1,396,133     $1,396,133    $1,396,133    $1,396,133
Profit tax                     *905.487   $2,217,320      245%                                                      *2,217.320      *2,217,320    $2.217,320    $2,217,320
Wage taxes                    $1,382,060   $2,091,633     151%                                                      $2,035,564      *2,035.564    S2,035,564    $2,035,564
Excise taxes                    $26,360       *12,907      49%                                                         *12,907         S12,907       $12,907        $12,907
Land tax                      $1,529,960   $1,739,587     114%                                                      $1,739,587      *1,739,587    $1,739,587    $1,739,587
Other                         $1,784,127     0875,913      49%                                                        $875,913        $875,913      $875,913       $875,913
Subsidies                     $1,940,693   $1,940,693     100%                                                      *1,940.693      $1,940,693    $1,940,693    $1,940,693
Treasury loan
WO loan                                                                                                               $305,845        $203,897      $101,948             $0
Total                         $8,737,693  S10,274.187     118%                                                     *10,523,962    S10.422,014   *10.320,065   *10,218,117
Expenses
Housing                                    $1,365,360                     $198,413        14.53%      $1,563,773      $625,509              $0             $0            *0
Education                                  $2,774,030                     $121,680         4.39%      *2,895,710    *2,895,710      $2,895,710    $2,895,710    $2,895,710
Culture                                      $410,967                      *87.700        21.34%        *498,667      *498,667        *498,667      *498.667       *498,667
Health                                     *4,726.126                                                 *4.726,126    $4,726.126      S4,726,126    *4.726.126    *4.726.126
Other                                        S997.703                                                   t997,703      $997,703        S997,703      *997,703       $997,703
Total                         $8,737,693  $10,274,187     118%            $407,793         3.97%    $10,681,980    $9,743,716       $9,118,207    $9,118,207    *9,118.207
Shortfall(Surplus)                                                                                                   (*780.2461    ($1.303,8071   ($1,201,8591  (*1.099,910)
% shortfall (+) or surplus -)                                                                                              -7%            -13%           -12%          -11%



ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 9
PROLETARSIKY RtAION SCENARIO - SINGLE SCENARIO (NO HOUSING)
Proletaraky Raion                      Mine Pravda                     Consolidated               1996              1997            1998   1999
1995 Muniicipal budget                   Social assets    % to municipal expenditures
Mlanned         Actual      Variance     operating coat        budget
actual 1995
Assupton
Change in wage taxes                                                                                                               (*33.808)        1*33.808)       (*33,808)       (*33,808)
WS loan financing % of social asset transfer                                                                                        75.00%            50.00%          25.00%           0.00%
Housing cost recovery                                                                                                        nle            rnle              n/a             Wea
.------ ---- -- - -- - - ---- - ---- ---- --- - -----  --------------  -- ----------  --. --     -----    ------- -   ---------   ---------   -- - -----------  --,-------- - --- .--   -------------------- -------
Revenues
VAT                                $508,607      *167,953         33%                                                             *167,953          $167,953        *167.953        $167,953
Profit tax                          *73.347      *363,887       496%                                                              *363,887         *363.887        *363.887        *363,887
Wage taxes                         $320,307      $612,340       191%                                                              $578,532         *578.532        *578.532        *578,532
Excise taxes                           $500          $100        20%                                                                   $100             $100            $100            $100
Land tax                          *927.107    *1,107,993        120%                                                            *1,107,993        $1,107,993      $1,107,993     *1.107.993
Other                              *701,053      *278.647        40%                                                              $278,647         *278,647         $278,647        $278,647
Subsidies                          *783.273      $783,273       100%                                                              *783.273         *783,273        *783,273        *783.273
Treasury loan                            *0    *2.868,327                                                                       *2.868.327        *2,868,327      *2.868.327      62,868,327
WB loan                                                                                                                             *35,530          *23,687         *11,843              $0
.    -              -------      ------ ------ - ------     --------------- -----. --  -----     --------- ---------   --   ------------- ------ - -- ----- -    ------      -------- -------- --- ---- ---  ------  -  ------ ------
Total                            $3,314,193    $6,182,520       187%                                                            $6, 184,241       $6,172,398      $6,160,555      $6.1 48.712
Expenses
Housing                                  $0 n/a                    0%                    0                                0              *0               $0              $0              *0
Education                        *4.162,280    *2.289.254        55%              *4,807             1.96%      *2,334,061      *2,334,061        $2,334,061     *2.334.061      *2.334.061
Culture                             *89.347       *49,141        55%                *2.566          5.22%          *51.707          *51.707          $51,707         *51,707         $51,707
Health                           *8,587.060    *3,622.883        55%                    *0                      *3,622,883      *3,622.883        $3,622,883     *3,622.883      *3,622,883
Other                             *256,807       *154,084        60%                                              *154.084        *154,084         *154.084        *154,084        *154,084
Shortfall                       ($7,781,300)   *6.115.362
Total                            *3,314,193    *6,151,667       186%              047.373            0.77%      *6,162,735      *6,162,735        *6.162.735      *6.162,735      *6,162.735
ShortfaIII/(Surpitus)                                                                                                              (*21,507)         (*9.664)         *2,180         *14.023
% shortfall I-W  or surplus (I0%                                                                                                                          0%              0%              0%
exchange rate one US dollar = 1 50000 Krb
Housing is in the budget of the City of Donetsk



ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 9
Ukraine Coal Project
Divestiture of soclal assets
Inventory and capacity data on social assets of mines and cities
Mine Krasniy
Octiabr    City of Yenakievo      Mine Removskaya  City of Snejnoi        Mine Pravda
Housing
surface sqm                         46,142       1,159,056                  45,989       404,200              146,500
% of mining association housing       11%                                      5%                                 5%/
% of transfer                                         4%                                     11%
Kindergartens
Number                                  3              15                        4            14                    1
capacity                              230            1700                      250          1125                   75
attendance                            204            1160                      220           982                   61
employees                              90            420                        94           335                   25
% of utiliation                       89%            68%                      88%            87%                 81%
Ratio child/personnel                 2.27           2.76                     2.34           2.93                2.44
Cultural facilities
Number                                  1              0                         2             5                    3
capacity                              300                                      460                                290
employees                               4                                       17                                  4
Sport Facilities
Number                                  2              0                         0             0                    Q
Capacity                             1000
employees                              34
Profilactoria
Number                                  0              0                         1             0                    0
Capacity                                                                        75
employees                                                                       12



ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 9
UKRAINE COAL PROJECT
DIVESTITURE OF SOCIAL ASSETS
Inventory and recurrent cost for operating social facilities for three mines (million Krb)
Actual costs for 1995
Social assets       Housing (sq m)    Kindergartens    Cultural facilities   Sport facilities  Profilactoria
Inventory
Krasniy Octiabr               46,000                 3               1               2
Removskaia                    45,989                 4               2                               1
Pravda                        146,500                1               3
Total                         238,489                8               6                2              1
TOTAL
Reccurent cost/year   Krb   $       Krb       $      Krb      $      Krb      $       Krb     $   Krb      $
KrasniyOctiabr       29,762   198,413  18,252  121,680  4,288   28,587   8,867   59,111    0             61,169    407,791        407791
Removskaia           25,869   172,460  23,797  158,647  4,462   29,747    0              7,988  53,253   62,116    414,107        414107
Pravda               34,655   231,033   6,721   44,807   2,566   17,107                                  43,942    292,947        292947
Total                90,286   601,907  48,770  325,133  11,316  75,440   8,867   59,111   7,988  53,253  167,227   1,114,844
1 $ = 150,000 Krb
TOTAL
Financing              Krb      $       Krb       $      Krb      $      Krb      $       Krb      $   Krb      $
Year 1, 75%          67,715   451,430  36,578  243,850  8,487   56,580   6,650   44,333   5,991   39,940  125,420  836,133  39,940 180,793
Year 2, 50%          45,143   300,953  24,385  162,567  5,658   37,720   4,433   29,556   3,994  26,627   83,613  557,422  26,627 120,529
Year 3, 25%          22,572   150,477  12,193   81,283   2,829   18,860   2,217   14,778   1,997  13,313   41,807  278,711   13,313 60,264
Total                135,429  902,860  73,155  487,700  16,974  113,160  13,300  88,667   11,982  79,880  250,840  1,672,267  79,880 361,587



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
UKRAINE COAL PILOT PROJE3:CT
Time-line of lmplementation Steps
May-96         Jun-96         Ju1-96       Aug-96   Sep-96  Oct-96  Nov-96  Dec-96 I Jan-97   Feb-97  Mar-97  Apr-97  May-97  Jun-97   Jul-97  Aug-97  Sep-97  Oct-97
OFFICLAL              Board       Parliament        Loan
ACTIONS             Approval       Approval    Effectiveness
MCI/UDKR
announcement
TECHNICAL/                        Contracts'                  Work Starts
PHYSICAL                            Award
CLOSURE a/
DIVESTITURE OF                     Inventory                     Social
SOCIAL ASSETS                     Preparation                   Assets'
Transfer                      ~~~~~Transitional Subsidies: 3 years           -     
Transfer
LABOR                              Workers
COMPONENT                          Notified
EMPLOYMENT    Recruitment                                      Counsellors
COMPONENT          and Training                                Start Work
of
Counsellors
Note:
a. Technical/physical closure will proceed simultaneously to divestiture of social assets. Work would last 9 months at each side.
Mine closing would proceed in parallel with each other, starting in August, i.e., within 2 months of contract award.



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 14
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
ORDER
OF THE MINISTER OF COAL INDUSTRY OF UKRAINE
#1 1, January 12, 1996
ON CREATING THE UKRAINIAN STATE-OWNED
COMPANY FOR RESTRUCTURING COAL ENTERPRISES
With a view to imnplement coal enterprises restructuring program, to provide the concentration and target
use of funds allocated form the state budget and by the World Bank, taking into account a great social and
economical significance, large scale, and long duration of coal sector restructuring in accordance with the
Enactment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Managing the Property Owned by the State" of December
15, 1992 1hereby decree:
1.     To establish the enterprise, the Ukrainian State-Owned Coal Company for Coal Enterprises
Restructuring ("Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya") with location in Donetsk.
2.     To appoint Poshtuk A.Z. as acting General Director of the Ukrainian State-Owned Coal Company for
Coal Enterprises Restructuring.
3.     To specify the "Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya" Company's major task as follows: to execute the whole
package of works on the organization and measures concerned with the sanitation, closure, and liquidation of coal
mines, collieries, and other enterprises including measures on the social protection for the workers of the coal
mines to be closed.
4.     To instruct Poshtuk A.Z., acting General Director of "Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya":
4.1.   To design and submit for approval the Charter of the Ukrainian State-Owned Company for
Restructuring Coal Enterprises to the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine not later than March, 15,
1996.
4.2.   To effect the state registration of "Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya" within one-week tern after the
Charter is approved in accordance with the acting legislation.
4.3.   To design the managerial structure of "Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya" not later than March 1. 1996.
4.4.   To prepare and submit the Draft Contract to be concluded with the manager of company
"Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya" to the Ministry of Coal hidustry of Ukraine not later than March 1, 1996.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 14
5.     To set the first group of remuneration of labor used for the mines as for the employees of Company
"Ukruglerestruturinatsiya" .
6.     To instruct Deputy Ministers Zipir A.P., Radchenko V.V. to provide finance for the works to be
performed in 1996 and to allocate funds required for Company "Ukruglerestukturizatsiya"'s administration on
the basis of financial sources stipulated for those objectives.
7.     To instruct Kovalyov A.N., Deputy Minister, and Poshtuk A.Z., Acfing General Director of Company
"Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya", to submit the proposals on the Company's location in the city of Donetsk not later
than March 1, 1996.
8.     To subordinate "Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya" Company to Radchenko V.V., Deputy Minister with a view
of distributing duties between the management of the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine.
9.     Radchenko V.V., Deputy Minister, shall assume control over the execution of the present Order.
S.V. Polyakov
Minister
Registered with the Executive                                                  APPROVED
Committee of the Donetsk Soviet of                                           Minister of Coal
Peoples Deputies                                                          Industry of Ukraine
Edict #445r                                                                    S.V.Polyakov
asofMarch 13, 1996                                                            March 1, 1996
Identification Code 24166975
A.D.Kushnig
Business Manager



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 14
CHARTER
OF THE UKRAINIAN STATE-OWNED
COMPANY FOR RESTRUCTURING COAL ENTERPRISES
1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1.   The   Ukrainian   State-Owned   Company   for   Restructuring   the   Coal  Enterprises
("Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya") is a state-owned enterprise on the basis of state-owned property and its activity is
regulated by the legislation of Ukraine and subordinated to the Minister of the Coal Industry of Ukraine.
1.2.   The full name of the Comnpany is the Ukrainian State-Owned Company for Restructuring Coal
Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the Company).
The abbreviated name is "Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya!'.
The legal address of the Company is: 97, Artyoma St., Donetsk 340000, Ukraine
2. GOAL, MAIN TASKS OF COMPANY'S ACTIVITY
2.1.   The Company has been established to arrange and execute the whole work package on sanitation,
closure and liquidation of the Ukrainian coal enterprises and to implement the national policy in this sphere taking
into account the social significance, large scale, and duration of closing the coal enterprises.
2.2.   The main task of the Company is to develop and realize actions complex concemed with the sanitation,
closure and liquidation of the coal enterprises and new jobs creation on the basis of budgetary and other funds
allocated for this task by the Government, Ministry of Coal Industry, banks, other institutions and foreign
investors.
3. THE SUBJECT-MATTER OF THE COMPANY
The subject-matter of the Companys activity is:
3.1.   To participate in the examination of "Feasibility Studies" for the closure and liquidation of uneconomic
and particularly unprofitable mines, collieries, and other coal enterprises.
3.2.   To participate in the preparation of the materials concerned with the implementation of 'Feasibility
Studies' and 'Prjects' r the Government Interdepartmental Commission required to take decisions as for the
closure of the coal enterprises.
3.3.   To participate in the preparation of annual list of enterprises to be subject to sanitation, closure and
liquidation for approval by the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine.



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 14
3.4.   To plan measures involved with the sanitation, closure and liquidation of coal enterprises.
3.5.   To make-up the annual draft estimates for the sanitation, closure and liquidation of coal enterprises
taking into account the Company's administration expenses and calculation of the sources to finance the costs
stipulated by the estimates.
3.6.   To detennine the amount of works to be executed with own efforts and by contract.
3.7.   To finance the works on sanitation, closure and liquidation of coal enterprises according to the cost
estimates within the financial sources allocated, providing the efficient use of funds.
3.8.   To arrange and carry out the works on sanitation, closure and liquidation of coal enterprises.
3.9.   To execute the works, with own efforts and by contract, required for the sanitation, closure and
liquidation of enterprises that provide for:
* closing down underground workings, dismounting and removing equipment, machinery, metalwork,
cables, etc.;
* dismantling and demolishing surface installations and buildings;
* rehabilitating and repairing buildings, installations and communications;
* constructing and organizing new productions;
* executing measures as for the environmental facilities;
*  sealing-off underground workings and their outcrops;
* exercising actions to restore the facilities of the enterprise to be liquidated to a safe and
environmentally acceptable condition, ramshackle and emergency buildings being dismantled;
*  extnguishing fire and planting of trees and shrubs in the waste dumps;
*  cleaning-up surface areas in compliance with the Law "On the Protection of the   Environment".
3.10.  To revise the documents confirming the coal reserves have been written-off, transferred to the
neighboring mines or registered as "Balance stock category".
3.11.  To control over the observance of safety rules and regulations at the enterprises to be closed and
liquidated according to the labor legislation. In case of violation the legislation on the environment protection by
the Company, the Company's activities can be restricted, temporarily prohibited or suspended in compliance with
the legislation in force.
3.12.  To prevent possible migration of underground water from exhausted underground workings of the mine
to be closed into the operating workings of the neighboring mines.
3.13.  To provide for gas seepage by drilling gas release boreholes to remove excess gas pressure in
underground workings and worked-out areas.



ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 14
3.14. To create and arrange new jobs if the opportunities are exhausted that the workers can be transferred to
other jobs at operting enterprises and find the work with the help of Employment Service under the local
executive authorities.
3.15.  To trnsfer the facilities to the legal successors.
3.16.  To provide the whole range of social protection to the workers of mines to be closed and liquidated in
comnphance with the legislation of Ukraine which stipulates:
*      transfer of the workers to other mines with lump sum payments to the transferred workers;
*      shedding of the workers due to the closure of mines with payments of severance to workers and
benefits to low-income families;
*      shedding of the workers at effective retiremen=  age and those wishing quittig due to the closure
of mines with payments of severance to workers and benefits to low-income families;
*      assigning of workers in accordance with their desire to vocational training (taining) with the
payments for the training period in accordance with the acting legislation of Ukraine;
*      reimbursement of losses to transfer employees to job in other cormmunities;
-      financing costs to create new jobs in cities and settlements in which the mine to be closed are
located;
-      financing costs of transportation for the workers to new places of work;
-      compensation of costs of early retirement provided that the employees have statutory length of
service;
-      compensation of costs of disability payments and one-time disability benefits;
-      compensation of costs of distributing free and preference coal to workers and pensioners of the
mine to be dissolved in case of their non-assigniung to other enterprises.
3.17.  To create new jobs.
3.18.  To train and retrain the personnel.
3.19.  To prepare feasibility studies and projects on the organization of new productions.
3.20.  To settle other issues involved with the social protection for the displaced workers and cash benefits.
3.21. To execute administrative, economical, and financial activities.
3.22.  To consider claims and complaints of detached organizations and workers of the coal enterprises to be
dissolved.
3.23.  To agree the decisions on social and economic issues with the local authorities and trade-unions.
3.24.  To coordinate the activities and control over the implementation of mine liquidation projects.



ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 14
3.25. To organize monxoring over gas seepage and mine water flowing to the underground workings of
neighbonng mines and the surface.
3.26.  To sell out the property of the enterprises to be liquidated.
3.27. To perform financial operations to obtain funds from the state budget, the Ministry of Coal Industry,
other institutions, foreign mvestors and other sources allocated to restructure the enterprises of the coal sector and
pay works and services made at the enterprises to be closed, as well as cash benefits for the social protection of
the displaced workers within the limits of the funds allocated.
3.28.  To supervise the expenditures under the state funds allocated to restructure the coal enterprises.
3.29.  To perform other activities not contradicting to the legislation in force.
4. LEGAL STATUS OF THE COMPANY
4.1.   The Company is a corporate body in compliance with the legislation of Ukraine.
4.2.   The Company assumes a body corporate status on the day of its state registration.
4.3.   The Company has independent balance, settlement, currency exchange and other accounts with the
banking institutions, as well as seals and stamps with its emblem and denominations, including other requisites.
4.4.   The activities of the Company are effected in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine, the guidelines
of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the orders of Minister of the Coal Industry of Ukaaine and regulations of
the Ministry Board, norms and rules ensuing from the international agreements, in which Ukraine enters and
which are concerned with the activities of the Company, as well as the present Charter.
4.5.   The Company may acquire proprietorial and personal non-proprietorial rights, conclude agreements and
treaties, other legal acts with the enterprises, organizations and natural persons both at the territory of Ukraine
and outside it as well as be, on its behalf, a plaintiff and defendant in courts, including arbitration.
4.6.   The Company is considered active based on the economic self-dependency; the Company plans its
activity on its oW4 is to bear responsibility for the results of such activity, is to perform liabilities to the budget
and partners, as well as for the target utilization of funds allocated by the Government, Ministry of Coal Industry
of Ukraine, foreign investors to the Company to sanitate, close and liquidate coal enterprises.



ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 14
4.7.   The Company is to be responsible for the its liabilities with the property owned by it. The Company is
not bound by the liabilities of the Government and Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine, unless ohewise
provided for by the legislation of Ukraine. The Government and the Coal Ministry of Ukraine are not bound by
the liabilities of the Company. The losses incurred to the Company as a result of violation of the Company's
propiietary rights are to be reimbursed by the decision of the Court or Arbitration.
4.8.   The Company has the right to create its affiliations, subsidiary companies and representative offices at
the territory of Ukraine and outside it according to the stipulated procedures. The activities of the affiliations,
subsidiary companies and representative offices are to be based on the Regulations approved by the General
Director of the Company.
4.9.   The Company may by a stockholder and participate in the economical partnerships, concerns and other
associations, including those with the participation of foreign legal and natural persons in accordance with the
acting legislation of Ukraine.
4.10.  The Company exercises the foreign and economical activity in accordance with the legislation of
Ukraine, goal, main objectives and subject-matter of the Company, provided for by the present Charter.
4.11.  The Company realizes its own production, renders services including consulting, executes works at the
negotiated prices. The property of the enterprises to be closed shall be realized, leased in accordance with the
acting legislation of Ukraine as agreed with the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine.
5. PROPERTY, AUTHORIZED FUND OF THE COMPANY
5.1.   The property of the Company includes fixed assets, circulating assets and other values which comprise
the Authorized Fund of the Company, as well as other property allotted to the Company. The cost of the
property allotted to the Company is to be included in its independent balance.
5.2.   The Company has a right of complete economic ownership for:
*  property allotted to it;
* income obtained as a result of its own economic activity;
*  budgetary funds and funds from other sources allocated by the Government, Ministry of Coal
Industry, other institutions, foreign investors for the sanitation, closure and liquidation of coal
enterprises;
*  other property purchased on the principles not prohibited by the legislation of Ukraine.
5.3.   The Company exercises the right for complete economic ownership, utilizes and manages, on its own,
the property owned to it, as well as exercises any activity which does not run counter to the legislation of Ukraine
and the present Charter.



ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 14
6. COMPANY'S PROFITS AND ITS UTILIZATION.
PROCEDURE FOR COST ACCOUNTING
6.1.   The indicator of the efficiency of Company's aclvties is a decrease in piarmed costs sfipulated in thre cost
esimates to sanitate, cose and liquiate the coal enteprises including the Company's administration
expenditues, as well as proceeds from the Cmpany's own economic actvities.
6.2.   Funds provided for by the cost esfimates for coal enterpnse sanitatio, closure, and liquidation, as well
as proceeds firm the Company's own economic acivities constitute the source for the Company's economic
stinulaio fimd, labor protedon fimd, and reserve fiud, including costs to the national budget and tax paymm
6.3.   Benefits from the Company's own economic activities are made on the basis of proceeds from the
Company's own economic activities less recovery of costs which are attributed to the production cost of products,
works, services.
6.4.   Cost estinates for coal enterprise sanitation, closure, and liquidation approved annually by the Ministry
of Coal Industry of Ukraine include:
*      costs directly ooncemed with the coal  terprise sanitation, closure, and liquidation including
costs for the social proction of workers of the enterprises to be cbsed;
*      the Compans admistaton expenses including finance to create the Conpany's econonic
stimulation fimd, labor protection fund, and reserve fund, including costs to the national budget
and tax payment in accordance with the acting standards.
6.5.   To crea the Company's ecmonoic stimulation funds the proceeds from the Company's own economic
actovities can be used in compliance with the legislation of Ukraine and acting standards.
6.6.   The Company creates on the basis of fimds stipulated in the cost esfimates to sanitate, dose and liquidate
the coal entprises, as wel as s procweds from the Company's own economic activities in compliance with the
legislation of Ukraine and acting standars:
6.6.1. Fund for strengthening the Company's material and technical base.
6.6.2. Fund for the CompaIns personnel social assistance and incentives for the Company's
employees.
6.6.3. Labor protection fimd.



ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 14
6.6.4. Comnpany's reserve (insurance) fund in the amnount of 25% of the Authorized Fund (or "Cost
Estimates") cover unforeseen costs.
The reserve fund required to cover the contingencies is forrned through the annual deductions at the rate
of 5% of resources stipulated in the cost estimates for enterprise sanitation, closure and liquidation until
the stipulated amount of the fund is reached.
The procedures for the creation and utilization of the funds listed in Items 6.6.1 -
6.6.4. are to be established by the Company's management.
7. COMPANY'S MANAGERIAL BODIES
7.1.   The Company is guided by the General Directorate of the Company.
7.2.   The General Directorate of the Company:
*      arranges the Company's activities in compliance with the present Charter, financing of works
and services, accounting and reports;
*      deternines the Company's organizational structure;
--    takes decisions on the creation, reorganization and liquidation of affiliations, subsidiary
companies, representative offices of the Company and executes managerent of their activities,
ensures the perfbrmiance of task assigned to them;
--    takes decisions on buying shares (stocks) of managing partnerships;
-      discusses the issues of selection, training and follow-up education of the Comnpany's employees;
-      determines the payroll, approves terms and conditions of labor remuneration, employee's wage
rates, schemes of rates of pay in compliance with the legislation of Ukraine and "branch tariff
agreement";
-      reviews the results of auditing, as well as reports of the heads of structural subdivisions being a
part of Company, heads of affiliations, subsidiary companies, and representative offices and
takes relevant decisions;
*      prepares Company's annual report and balance;
*      considers the problems of the Company's employees stimulating and making materialy
responsible;
*      takes decisions on otier issues of the Company's activities.
The decisions of the General Directorate are to be executed by the orders of the Company's General
Director.
7.3.   The General Directorate is guided by the General Director ofthe Company, he is to organize its activities
with the help of deputies and is to bear responsibility for executing the objectives assigned to the Company.
7.4.   The powers of the Company's working body are to be realized by the general meeting (conference) at
which the working body has the right to elect the self-management bodies participating in settling the social and



ANNEX 11
Page 10 of 14
economic issues. The General Director of the Company can be elected member of the Coipary's self-
managment bodies.
8. THE GENERAL DIRECTOR OF THE COMPANY
8.1.   The General Director of the Company is to be appointed and discharged on a contact by the Minister of
Coal Industry of Ukraine:
* acts on behalf of the Company without proxy;
* manages the Company's property in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine;
* presents the Company in relations with other enterprises, oganizations and natural persons;
* entrusts to take actions on behalf of the Company;
* stipulates procedures for the preparation of agreements and other treaties to be concluded on behalf
of the Company;
* employs and terminates employees of the Company, approves specific wage rates and salaries of the
Company's employees, applies measures including incetives and disciplinary punismnt in
compliance with the legislation of Ukraine, "branch tariff agreement" and collective treaty;
* allocaues responsibilities of his Deputies and Directorate's Directors,
executes other functions in compliance with the legislation of Ukraine and the present Charter.
9. ACCOUNTING AND REPORTS
9.1.   The Company executes accounting of its economnical activities in compliance with the legislation of
Ukraine.
9.2.   The financial results of the Company's activities are to be estimated based on the anmual accounting
balance sheet. The annual accounting balance sheet and financial report are to be approved by the Ministry of
Coal Industry of Ukraine.
9.3.   The first fiscal year of the Company begins on the date of its registration and terminates on December 31
of the current year. The following fiscal years agree with calendar years.
9.4.   The Company is to submit the statistical reporting to the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine and
bodies of state statistics within the volumes and terms stipulated by the legislation of Ukraine.
9.5.   Auditing of the Company's financial activities is to be executed in accordance with the legislation of
Ukraine.
10. CESSATION OF THE COMPANY'S ACTIVITY
10.1.  The Company's activity is ceased through its reorganization (merging, incorporation, division,
separation, transformation) or liquidation.



ANNEX 11
Page 11 of 14
10.2.  The Company's reorganization is carried out by the decision of the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine
and in cases specified by the legislation is effected by the collective body or the court of arbitration.
10.3.  The Company liquidation is effected by a Liquidation Commission appointed by the Ministry of Coal
Industry of Ukraine. The representatives of the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine and those of the Company in
the person of Company's managerial bodies are the members of the Liquidation Conrission. The liquidation
procedures and temporal terms, as well as the term for filling claims are determined by the Ministry of Coal
Industry of Ukraine. In case of bankruptcy the Company's liquidation is effected in compliance with the Law of
Ukraine "On Bankruptcy".
10.4.  On the day of its appointment, the Liquidation Commission is delegated Company's managerial
authority. The Commission compiles the liquidation balance and submits it to the Ministry of Coal Industry of
Ukraine. The creditors and other legal persons that are under cortraclal obligations with the Company are to be
notified in written form.
10.5.  In case of Company's reorganization or liquidation the rights and interests of the discharged workers are
secured by the labor legislation of Ukraine.



ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 14
DONETSK SOVIET OF PEOPLE'S DEPUTIES
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
ENACTMENT #448r
of March 13, 1996
"ON THE REGISTRATION OF THE UKRAINLAN STATE-OWNED COMPANY
FOR RESTRUCTURING COAL ENTERPRISES"
Having considered the application of Poshtuk A.Z., the General Director of the Ukrainian state-owned
company for restructuring the coal enterprises, and having govemed by the Law of Ukraine "On the enterprises in
Ukraine", the Executive Committee of Donetsk Soviet of People's Deputies hereby RESOLVES:
1.     To register the Ukainian state-owned company for restructuring the coal enteprises located at the
address: 97, Artyoma St., 340000 Donetsk.
2.     To establish budgetary relations in compliance with the acting legislation.
3.     In case of changes in the legal address, the Company is to notify the new address to Donetsk Executive
Comuittee, State Taxation Inspection and bodies of State Statistics within the period of 7 days.
A.P.Kluyev
First Deputy Chairman
Executive Conunittee



ANNEX 11
Page 13 of 14
COMPANY "UKRUGLERESTRUKTURIZATSIYA"'S STATEMENT OF EXPENSES
ON WAGES (WITHOUT INCENTIVE PAYMENTS AND BONUSES) FOR THE YEAR 1995
IteN       Description of expense items      Unit                              Amount of expenses
No.
1996,                          including
total
I -st qr.   2-nd qr.     3-rd qr.     4-th qr.
1.    Wages with charges                 Krb.          23,082,150     177,550     7,102,200    7,102,200    7,102,200
thousands
including
1.1.   Wages                                            15,185,625    1,168,125    4,672,500    4,672,500    4,672,500
1.2.   Deduction to the social insurance,               7,896,525      607,425     2,429,700    2,429,700    2,429,700
Fund for Chernobyl consequences'
elimination, Employment Fund
A.Z.Poshtuk
Genemal Difector
Company "tkresturizatsiya"



ANNEX 1 1
Page 14 of 14
STRUCTURE OF UKRAINIAN STATE-OWNED COMPANY FOR RESTRUCTURING COAL ENTERPRISES
(UKRUGLERESTRUKTURIZATSIYA) (Total number of employees is 135)
Approved by the order of the
Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine
" ____ " ___________________    1996
GENERAL DIRECTOR (1)                          personnel under the management
(8)
Deputy General Director on enterprise   Deputy General Director on       Deputy General Director on     Deputy General Director on labor
restructuring (1)                     financial and investment, planned   material and technical supply and   redeployment and social problems
and economical, including            transport (1)                          (1)
commnercial works (1)
1.    Department of feasibility study   I.  Finance and Investment    1. Department for Material and  1.     Department for Study
examination, operation               Department       (7)      Technical Supply (16)                  Population Employment and
expediency and enterprise     2.     Planning and Economical   2. Transport and Handling              Employment of Displaced
liquidation projects  (5)            Department       (6)      Department (5)                         Workers of the Enterprises to
2.     Technical Departmnent    (6)   3.    Sales Department  (6)                                            Be Closed         (5)
3.     Mine Surveying Departrnent    4.     Estimate and Agreement                                    2.     Department for Organization
(4)                                         Department       (5)                                             Training and Retraining of
4.     Departmnent of Safety Rules and  5.  Accounts Department (9)                                          the Displaced Workers
Regulations          (4)      6.     Legal Department   (5)                                           (4)
4.     Departmnent of Chief Mechanic                                                                  3.     Company's Employees Social
(5)                                                                                       Assistance Department  (5)
5.     Department for Coordination                                                                    4.     General Service Department
and Control over the Enterprise                                                                                       (6)
Restructuring Progress    (9)
6.     Department for Rehabilitation
of development sites and
Ecology
(5)
7.     Department for Study Labor
Demand and New Job Creation
(5)



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Assistance the Govermnent of Ukraine
Support to the Ukraine State Company for
Restructuring Coal Industry Enterprises (UDKR)
1. Background
1.    As an integral part of the conversion of the Ukrainian economy from the centrally planned model
to a market basis the national coal mining industry is undergoing a fundamental restructuring. The
progress is Intended to lead to a coal sector that is economically and financially viable, satisfying
domestic demand for coal of the qualities available within Ukraine without government subsidy. There
is general acceptance that closure of a number of mines will be necessary either because the reserves arc
exhausted or because the casts of operating prohibit rational continuation of exploitation.
2.    Mine closure under the central planning regime was a rare occurrence, only permitted when
reserves were entirely exhausted and generally then only when a replacement mine was developed both
to replace the output lost from the closing mine and to employ the displaced miners. There is thus very
little experience of closing mines within Ukraine, and what d - Cs exist relates to conditions under which
a choice of actions did not need to be economically justified.
3. The Ukrainian government has now agreed an action plan for coal industry restructuring. This includes
market liberalization and restructuring the corporate structure. It also involves a plan to close mines. The
aim is to close at least X mines during 1996 and thereafter to close remaining un-economic mines as
efficiently and as quickly as possible.
4.    The World Bank have prepared a pilot 3 mine closure project with the aim of preparing practical
guidelines and best practice for mine closure and are expected to follow this up with another mine closure
project to finance the costs of closing another 24 mines. Funds provided by tho Bank will be provided
for local cost financing through the budget. Funds are expected to cover the costs of technical and
environmental support, lump sum payments for transferring employees (of mines and the social sphere),
and other related costs to be defined during the pilot (e.g. for existing disability labilities, severance
payments).
5.    To manage the mine closure process the Ukraine have decided to establish a Ukrainian Coal
Company (UDKR) closed modelled along the lines of British Coal Enterprise (BCE). UDKR will take
prime responsibility for the actual closure of the mines and will be responsible for the design and
implementation of programmes to mitigate the social and economic aspect of mine closure. This is likely
to include redundancy counselling and outplacement advice as well as direct interventions in the labour
marker.
6.    Like BCE, UDKR is expected to take a strong "partnership" approach to its task, working closely
with local authorities and other key local players in the regions affected by closure and acting as a catalyst
for regional regeneration.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
7.    UDKR will have its headquarters in Donetsk and a Chief Executive has already been identified.
2. Objectives
8.    The objective of this technical assistance project is to assist with the establishment and operation
of UDKR The KHF will provide advisory (and; if required, executive) support to UDKR over two years
The main aim is to ensure a socially responsible and cost-effective mine closure programmne.
3. Scope of Work
Phase I
9.    Tho first phase will provide support to establish the UDKR. This will involve:
Defining the key functions and mission statement of the UDKR (in particular separation of
responsibilities between UDKR and MCI)
Assisting UDKR Chief Executive agree these functions with key players including MCI and local
authorities
Defining the organization and staffing structure of UDKR, this will include preparing detailed
job    descriptions
Assist UDKR recruit key staff
Preparing a business plan
Preparing and agreeing with UDKR Chief Executive a programme of continued technical
assistance including detailed job descriptions and skills requested
Assisting the KHF and UDKR tender for this long term programme of support
Providing continued high level management support to UDKR until the full time team is in place
Phase II
10.   The exact detail of Phase II will emerge during Phase l. But the following support is expected
to be provided:
(a) Management and Financial Control
General advice to management to run the new organization efficiently establish efficient financial
management systems, transparent and effective financial systems will be especially important if
the UDKR channels the payment of subsidies to employers of redundant miners, payments to
local authorities for social sphere costs and other direct budget transfers.
Assist UDKR develop an effective communications approach with the Mining and local
communities most affected by closure. This is expected to be a highly participatory approach



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 5
allowing feedback and is not just a PR exercise. The arm is to reduce uncertainly and anxiety about
mine-closure and the social change it requires and to involve the local communities in key decisions
11.    Assist UDKR develop a Public Relations strategy. This will include a strategy for dealing, with
the press and the broadcast media and other aspects of PR intended to generate wider support for the
mine-closure programme.
12.    Advice will bc provided from consultants experienced with communications and PR in the FSU
context (successful examples include work on voucher privatization and land reform in Russia).' A
working knowledge of Russian or Ukrainian will be essential.
13.(c) Redundancy. Job Creation and Regional Regeneration
14.    The existing Action Plan includes the outlines of a scheme for dealing redundancies caused by
mine closures. The scheme, based on flat rate payments to employers for taking on redundant miners,
will be tested through the 3 mine pilot programme. UDKR will need to develop the capacity to monitor
and evaluate the results of the pilot and to implement redundancy job creation schemes. The scheme
which the pilot will test has been influenced by World Bank policy and not by demonstrated successes
in or West European context.
15.    The Protocol with the Bank has agreed that a wider study of regional regeneration and Job
creation should be undertaken (probably by the Ministry of Economy) but the UDKR will need to be able
to influence and interact with this work.
16.    The consultants should assist the UDKR Co develop both policy understanding and practical
implementation capacity to deal with redundancy, job-creation and wider regional regeneration issues.
Subjects to bc covered include:
o      Redundancy counselling
o      Outplacement and job search, support to labor mobility
o      Job creation through SME support schemes (eg loan guarantee, equity
o      Job Creation through other mechanisms (eg subsidy to new employers)
o      Broader partnership approaches to regional regeneration based an European approaches
to local development including methods of working with the emerging private sector and
local authorizes
(d) Social Sphere
Bidders should look at the Know How Fund and IFC experience with PR and communications work in Donetsk Land
Privatization programme.



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 5
The UDKR is expected to take: responsibility for ensuring the smooth transfer of the social
sphere to Local municipalities. The World Bank projects will fund the additional costs to
municipal budget. The UDKR will need to develop the capacity to plan and organize the transfer
of services and possibly to train new municipal managers. It will also need to deal with
unemployed social sphere workers.
17.   Particular issues include how to deal with housing transfers. Consultants should
have similar expcrience of social divestment from other projects in the FSU.
(e) Technizal Mine Closure Issues
*     Definition of the options for closure or merger of mines and/or their reserves and
facilities;
*     Planning the underground works and facilities associated with mine closures and/or
mergers, including consideration of the viability of salvage operations and of the need for
scaling against water and gas migration; consideration of pumping installations and their
cost implications on adjacent mines to ensure that closure of one mine does not add an
unnecessary burden to others.
3     Consideration of the possible subsidence regime after mine closure and the potential need
for mitigation, either by prevention or by installation of drainage or other systems.
3     Planning of the shaft sealing operations and of its impacts;
3     Planning of the site conversion process, including choice of installations to he demolished
and those to be retained;
3     Costing of all the above, including estimation of the labour requirement and the time for
which it will be required;
*     Preparation for announcement of the impending closures on a mine by mine basis.
The consultant will be required to give consideration, on the basis firstly of closure plans
prepared by Ukrainian specialists and later of plans revised in the light of the consultant's advice, on the
desirability of setting up special peripateic mine closure action teams with a view to minimizing the time
and cost entailed in a mine closure operation.
(f) Relationship with World Bank
18.   The UDKR will be responsible for implementing the pilot and full mine-closure projects. The
technical assistance provided to UDKR by the KHF will strengthen capacity to undertake the pilot and
to monitor and interpret results from the pilot but the KHF advisers will not have any direct responsibility
for implementation.
Separate direct implementation support for the pilot is being considered by the KHF.



ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 5
4. Effort
19.   Phase I Bidders should recommend an approach to Phase I The KHF expects that it will require
at least five weeks of intensive input for the first organizational stage and continued support of about 2
weeks a month until the full team is in place.
20.   Phase II. The KHF is willing to support up to five full time advisers (or the equivalent from a
mix of full time and short term support) to the UDKR for the first year of operation and to continue this
support at a lower level during the second year.
21.   Bidders should recommend an approach to this work. Bids should be made for both Phases I and
II on the understanding that the exact details of Phase II will be renegotiated after Phase I design work.
Continuity between Phases I and II is essential.
22.   Skills Required [to be added]
5. Reporting, Work Planning
23.   Short monthly workplans to the UDKR will be prepared by the consultant and copied to the KHF
and the World Bank.
24.   All documentation will be provided in Russian and English at the expense of the contractor.
25.   Short reports to the UDKR will be written after each visit and copied to the KHF and the World
Bank task manager. The reports will be submitted within seven working days of the period covered in
the report.
26.   More detailed reports to the KHF will be prepared quarterly.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 1
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year                   Disbursements               Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                          by Quarter                      by end Quarter
FY96
1st Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
4th Quarter                      0.2                               0.2
FY97
1st Quarter                      0.5                               0.7
2nd Quarter                      1.0                               1.7
3rd Quarter                      2.0                               3.7
4th Quarter                      2.0                               5.7
FY98
ist Quarter                      2.5                               8.2
2nd Quarter                      2.3                              10.5
3rd Quarter                      2.0                              12.5
4th Quarter                      1.0                              13.5
FY99
1st Quarter                      1.0                              14.5
2nd Quarter                      1.3                              15.8



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Being a pilot project, supervision is expected to require a more intensive input than normal.
About 20 staff-weeks per fiscal year during the first two years of implementation and 10 staff-weeks
in the third year are required. A formal mid-term review involving senior government officials will
be carried out in mid-1996 to review progress on implementation, including actual stages of the
closure of the three mines.
The schedule below indicates supervision plan and required resources in addition to regular review
requirements for procurement actions, progress reviews and various correspondence.
Dates            Activity               Staffimg                 Staff-weeks
May 1996         Project Startup        - Task Manager
- Mine Engineer
- Social Assessment
- Implementation         10
- Public Participation
Se.ptember 1996   Supervision           - Task Manager
- Environmental
Specialist
- Social Assessment      10
- Disbursement
March 1997       Supervision            - Task Manager
Mid-term review       - Division Chief
- Engineer
- Ex-post monitoring     8
September 1997   Supervision            - Task Manager
- Social Assessment      6
March 1998       Supervision            - Task Manager
- Social Assessment      4
October 1998     PCR Preparation        - Economist
- Engineer
- Social Assessment      6



ANNEX 15
Pagel of 13
UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
SUMMARY OF RESULTS
Krasnyi Oct.    Pravda     Removsk.         Total
Net Present Value (MS)
- of Economic Benefrts              7             17           2              26
- of Fiscal Impact                  12            37           9              59
Economic Rate of Return       |    65%           93%        20%               55%
Underlying Key Input Value
border price of Russian coal      $St 36
$/GJ 1. 5
Coal Price at which NPV would become negative
for        for
Economic   Fiscal
Benefits   Impact
border price of Russian coal        $/t      48         63
$/GJ       1.9        2.5
Remark:   Russian coal price cannot increase to these levels because
coal from overseas exporters could be landed in Mariupol
at 46 $4, or 1.7 $1GJ.



ANNEX 15                                  UKRAINE: COAL PILOT PROJECT
Page 2 of 13                                   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
EXPLANATIONS
A. Economic Costs and Benefits
(t) Production Costs include free coal but no other social costs and no taxes (for tonnages see separate sheets for individual
mines: Costs of Local Coal Production vs. Imports.
(2) Materials, energy and services for raw coal production of mines (real increases due to worsening geology and gradual
lifting of input prices to international levels).
(3)  Economic wages are assumed to represent 50% of actual wages.
(4) Costs of cleaning and transporting local coal to domestic consumers (declining due to declining production).
(5)  Costs for maintenance & operation of social infrastructure carried by the mines.
6  Present economic value of closure and mitigation costs at time of producton stop determined by depleted coal reserves.
(7)  Local coal delivered at domestic consumers at import parity price (based on imports from Russia; assumed to adjust
gradually to international levels; for tonnages see separate sheets for individual mines: Costs of Local Coal Production vs.
Imports).
(8) In the first year of project implementation, 60% of the coal is assumed to be still supplied by the closing mines.
(9)  In the first year of project implementation, 40% of the coal is assumed to be imported.
(10) Costs of sealing-off underground workings, filling the shafts, demolishing surface structure and cleaning the site.
( 1) Excluding all severance and other transfer payments.
(1 2) Costs of transport (or relocation) of workers who continue to work in other mines (10-40% of workforce, depending
on mine).
13)  Workers and pensioners not connected to district heating receive 6 tons of free coal per year, valued at import
parity (free coal is included in the production costs of the "without"case).
(14) 2 years disbursement, 3 years grace, 10 years repayment in annuities with 2% real interest and 30% failure rate.
(15) Costs for maintenance & operation of social infrastructure taken over by the state.
(16) Annual operating costs of $ 300,000 assumed, which together with the technical assistance program are equally
distributed to the three mines (if no more mines were closed in fututure, continuation of UCC beyond 2000 would not
be justified).
(17) Wages paid to miners which are transferred to other mines, find new employment outside the coal industry or are self-
employed (economic costs are assumed to repesent 50% of previous actual wages, identcal to line (3)).
(18)  Following percentage of workforce assumed to be transferred: 40% at Removskaya, 20% at Krasnyi Octyabr, 10% at Pravda.
(1 9) Includes ex-mine workers who find new employment outside the coal industry or are becoming self-employed as well as
miners ('future miners') who would have entered the coal industry in the 'Wthout' case as replacement for retiring miners.
(20) Same quantity of coal delivered at same economic price as in the "without'case.
(21) Economic value created by new employment.
(22) For transferred miners, this value assumed to be equal to their wages (no value added).
(23) For workers which find employment outside the coal industry or are self-employed, a value added of 25% is assumed.
B. Fiscal Impact
(1) Difference between (financial) costs of local coal producton (incl. cleaning and distribution) and delivery of imported coal
to consumers. This difference includes social costs and taxes (for details on individual mines see separate sheets: Costs of
Local Coal Production vs. Imports).
(2) Present (financial) value of closure and mitigation costs at time of production stop determined by depleted coal reserves.
(3)  Contributions to state pension fund and other social funds.
(4)  Taxes charged on the output of mines.
(5) Difference between costs of local coal production and imports during the first year of project implementation (mines still
producing 60% of their previous annual output).
(6) Present financial value of the mine closure and mitigation costs at the time of production stop due to depletion.
(7)  Includes most essential social services previously provided by mines.
(e) Equivalent to total economic costs of social mitigation (see Economic Costs and Benefits Sheet).
(9) Disability payments taken over by the state in same amount as initially provided by the mines in the "without' case (but no
increase due to addition of further incidents).
(10) Costs for maintenance & operation of social infrastructure taken over by the state initially in the same amount as provided
by the mines in the "without" case. Phasing out of state support assumed over a period of 10 years.
(1 1) Same administrative costs assumed as in economic analysis (see note (14) of economic analysis).
(12) Assumed to be 70% lower than in the "without case".
(11) Assumed to be 80% lower than in the "without case".



UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                           ANNEX 16
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                               Page 3 of 13
Economic Costs and Benefits (1996 USS million)
THREE MINES (KRASNYI OCTYABR, PRAVDA. REMOVSKAYA)
Prosent        Project Period                Post - Project Period
Value     1996    1997    1996    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004    2005   2006   2007   2008   2009    2010
A. WITHOUT PROJECT                       (i=10%)
Costs                                 150        20.6    21.0    21.3    21.7    22.1    22.4    27.7    16.8    17.0    21.8    11.8    12.0    12.2    12.4    20.0
(1) Coal production                                 20.6    21.0    21.3    21.7   22.1    22.4    22.8    16.8    17.0    17.3    11.8    12.0    12.2    12.4    12.6
(2)  the   -supplies a8seavs                        13.8    14.1    14.4    14.7    15.0    15.3    15.6    11.4    11.6    11.9    8.1        8.2     8.4      8.5     8.7
(3.)       -wag"                                    3.2      3.2     3.3     3.4     3.4      3.5     3.8     2.8     2.7      2.7     1.9     1.9     1.9      2.0     2.0
(4)         - cou dsing & diibubo                   2.0      2.0     1.9     1.9     1.9      1.8     1.8     1.4     1.3      1.3     0.8     0.8     0.8    0a8       0.7
(5)        -mninbn.&pwe dosacilintasr.              1.6      1.6     1.7     1.7     1.7      1.8     1.8     1.4     1.4      1.4    10      11      11       1.1     1.1
(6) Mine closure & mitigation                                                                         4.9                     4.4                                       7.4
Benefits                           | 9.54  |   14.7    14.7    14.6    14.6    14.6    14.5    14.4    10.9    10.8    10.7    7.2          7.2     7.2     7.3      7.3
(79 Coal divered to consumers                       14.7    14.7    14.6    14.6    14.6    14.5    14.4    10.9    10.8    10.7    7.2        7.2     7.2     7.3      7.3
Net Benefits                                     4.9      6.3     6.7    -7.1    -7.6    -7.9   -13.3   -5.9       6.2   -11.0    4.6    -4.8    46.0    4.1   -12.7
B. WITH PROJECT
Costs                              F 151.3       28.2    27.0    22.9    21.6    21.1    20.9    20.6    16.8    15.8    16.7    10.6    10.7    10.9    11.0    11.1
(8) Coal productlon                                 12.4
(9) Coal imports                                    5.9    14.7    14.6    14.6    14.6    14.5    14.4    10.9    10.8    10.7    7.2         7.2     7.2     7.3      7.3
(10) Mine cloure & environmental mitigation          4.9     4.2
(11) Mitgationf social impact                        0.6     2.3      2.4     1.2     1.1      1.1     0.8     0.9     1.0     0.8      0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.7
(12)  ffdv   -vmuAwdminnwerww                        asf      0.3     0.3     0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.1     0.1     0.1      ai1     0.1
(13)        -e cow                                            0.8     0.9     0.9     0.9      0.9     1.0     0.8     as       as       .      0.5     0.5      0.8     a.s
(14)        -mincardib                                        1.2     1.2            40.19    0.19   40.49    -0.12   -0.12    -0.32   -0.08   -0.06   -0.06   -0.08
(15) Mainten.&oper.osociallnfastructure              0.6      1.6     1.7     1.7     1.7      1.8     1.8     1.4     1.4      1.4     1.0     1.1     1.1      1.1     1.1
(16) Admin. cots for UCC (incl. TA)                  0.6     0.9      0.9     0.6     0.3
(17) Wages                                           3.2     3.2      3.3     3.4     3.4     3.5      3.6     2.6     2.7     2.7      1.9     1.9     1.9     2.0      2.0
(18) owed   ransfewidminewa*u                        0as      0.6     0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7     o.s     a.s      a.S     0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
(19)        -oaUrx-&futwemkw wr                      2.5      2.8     2.7     2.7     2.8      2.8     29      2.1     2.2      2.2     1.7     1.7     1.8      1.8     1.8
Benefits                           F 122.61   18.6    18.6    18.6    18.6    18.7    18.7    18.7    14.0    14.0    14.0    9.5           9.      9.6     9.7      9.8
(20) Coaldeiveredtoconsumers                         14.7    14.7    14.6    14.6    14.6    14.5    14.4    10.9    10.8    10.7    7.2        7.2     7.2     7.3      7.3
J21) Value of output from re-employed miners         3.8     3.9      4.0     4.1     4.1     4.2      4.3     3.2     3.2     3.3      2.3     2.3     2.4      2.4     2.5
(22)  trAd   -kannaterdmmaw wrk                      o.e      as      0.7     0.7      a?      0       07      0.5      0.5     0.5     0.2     0.2 0.2           2      0.2
(23)         -dhwnr-6AlAumine wokr                    3.2     3.2     3.3     3.4      3.4     3.5     3.      2.6      2.7     27      2.1     2.1     2.2      2.2     2.3
Net Benefits                                     41.6     8.4     4.3    -2.8    -2.4    -2.2    -1.9    -1.8    -1.8       1.7    -1.2    -1.2    -1.2      1.3     1.4
C. INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS               3263        4.7    -2.1      2.4     4.3     6.1      5.8    11.3    4.1       4.4     9.4     3.4     3.6    3.7       3.9      11.3
Economic ate of reum      55%



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 13
UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Fiscal Impact (1996 USS million)
THREE MINES (KRASNYI OCTYABR. PRAVDA. REMOVSKAYA)
Present       Project Period                                           Post - Project Period
Va/ue     1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
A. WITHOUT PROJECT                                   0=10%)
Budget Costs                                     134.      17.0   17.6   18.2   18.8    19.5   20.1    26.3   15.1    15.6   21.1    11.1    11.4   11.7   12.1    21.1
(1) PaymentstoCoallndustry                                    17.0   17.6   18.2   18.8   19.5   20.1    20.8   15.1    15.6   16.2   11.1    11.4   11.7   12.1    12.4
(2) Mine closure & mitigation                                                                                  5.4                     5.0                                     8.7
Budget Revenues                                  41.3       5.8    5.9    6.1       6.2    6.3    6.4    6.6    4.8    4.9    5.0           3.4    3.5    3.6       3.6     3.7
(3) Contributionstosocialfunds                                 3.7    3.8      3.9    4.0      4.0    4.1      4.2    3.1      3.2    3.2    2.2       2.2     2.3     2.3     2.4
(4) Taxes                                                      2.1     2.1     2.2     2.2     2.3    2.3    2.3       1.7    1.8    1.8       1.2     1.2     1.3     1.3     1.3
Net Impact on Budget                                       -11.2  -11.7  -12.2  -12.7  -13.2  -13.7  -19.7  -10.2  -10.7  -16.1   -7.7   -7.9   -8.2   -8.4   -17.4
B. VWITH PROJECT
Budget Costs                                     48.8      19.0   11.2    6.7    6.0    4.3         3.8     3.7    2.7    2.6    2.1        1.3     1.3    1.3      1.3     1.3
(5) Payments to Coal lndustiy                                 10.2
(8) Mine closure & environmental mitigation                    4.9    4.2
(79 Mitigation of social impact                                3.3    6.1      5.8    4.4    4.0       3.8    3.7      2.7    2.5    2.1       1.3     1.3    1.3      1.3     1.3
(8) HWF  -unhf. hfee cosl 3 miaA-aCedit                        0.8     2.3     24      1.2     11      11      0.8    0.9      1.0     08      0.8     08      0.8     0.6    0.7
(9)       -disabiliy paymets                                   2.1    2.1      2.0    1.9      1.8     18      1.7    1.2    1.2       11      0.7     07      0.7    0.7      0.8
(10)       *maintnnce & opr6on of social infrsaJctwe            0.7     1.8     1.5    1.3      11      1.0    1.2    0.8    0.4    0.2
(11) Admin. costs for UCC (incl. TA)                            0.6     0.9    0.9      0.6    0.3
Budget Revenues                                   12.2      1.7     1.8    1.8      1.8     1.9    1.9    1.9       1.4    1.5    1.5    1.0        1.0    1.1      1.1     1.1
(12) contributionstosocialfunds                                 1.3     1.3     1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4        1.5    1.1    1.1    1.1        0.8    0.8      0.8    0.8      0.8
(13) taxes                                                      0.4    0.4      0.4    0.4      0.5     0.5     0.5    0.3    0.4    0.4        0.2    0.2      0.3     0.3     0.3
Net Impact on Budget                                       -17.3   -9.4   -4.9   -3.2   -2.5   -1.9    -1.8   -1.3   -1.1   -0.6    -0.3   -0.3   -0.2    -0.2   -0.2
C. INCREMENTAL NET IMPACT ON BUDGET                    56.5     -6.1    2.2      7.2     9.5    10.7   11.8   17.9    8.9    9.6    16.5    7.4          7.7    7.9    8.2    17.1|



UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                ANNEX 15
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                    Page 5 of 13
Economic Costs and Benefits (1996 USS million)
KRASNYI OCTYABR
(deplbd in 2002)
Present        Project Period            Post - Project Period
Va/ue     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
A. WITHOUT PROJECT                        (i=10%)
Costs                                  31.3       5.6     6.7      5.8     5.9     6.1     6.2    11.2
(1) Coal production                                  5.6     5.7      5.8     5.9     6.1     6.2      6.3
(2)  dwef  -supplies &sevices                        3.9      4.0     4.1     4.1     4.2      4.3     4.4
(3)        -wageS                                    0.9    0o9       0.9     0.9     1.0      1.0     1.0
(4)        -colcAmning&dfsfibutbon                   0.4      0.4     0.4     04      0.4      0.4     0.4
(5)        - minlen.  oper d scial infrasr.          0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4     0.4      0.5     0.5
(6) Mine closure 6 mitigation                                                                          4.9
Benefits                               1C.2       3.2     3.3      3.3     3.4     3.4     3.4      3.6
(7) Coal delivered to consumers                      3.2     3.3      3.3     3.4     3.4     3.4      3.5
Net Benefits                                      -2.4    -2.5    -2.6    -2.6    -2.7    -2.7    -7.7
B. WITH PROJECT
Costs                                  29.8       8.1     7.3      6.6     5.2     6.1     5.1      4.8
(8) Coal production                                  3.4
(o) Coal imports                                     1.3     3.3      3.3     3.4     3.4     3.4      3.5
(10) Mine closure & environmental mitigation          2.0      1.8
(11) Mitigationofsocialimpact                         0.2     0.7      0.7     0.3     0.2     0.2    -0.1
(12)  twah.  *hrdsfwcfminewu*.                        0.2      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1
(13)        -ueecost                                           0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
(14)        - mb.crdiis                                        0.4     0.4            40.06    -0.08   o0.37
(15) Mainten.& oper. of social Infrastructure         0.2     0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4     0.5      0.5
(16) Admin. costs fbr UCC (ncl. TA)                   0.2     0.3      0.3     0.2     0.1
(17) Wages                                            0.9     0.9      0.9     0.9     1.0      1.0     1.0
(18)  thdw.  -onsd dne wie                            0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
(19)        -offw .x-&futwe mine walrk                0.7      0.7     0.7     0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8
Benefts                                21.7       4.3     4.4      4.4     4.6     4.6     4.6      4.7
p0) Coal dlivered to consumers                        3.2     3.3      3.3     3.4     3.4     3.4      3.5
(21) Valueofoutputfrom re-employed miners             1.1      1.1     1.1     1.1     1.2      1.2     1.2
(22   away. -hns,ahre mine  *                         0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
(23)        -h wex-I a uba mine warus                 0.9      0.9     0.9     0.9      1.0     1.0     1.0
Net Benefits                                      -3.9    -3.0    -1.2    -0.7    -0.6    40.6    -0.2
C. INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS              I .0          -1.4    4.5      1.3     1.9    2.1       2.3     7.5
Econaic rate of retum 65%



ANNEX 16
Page 6 of 13
UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Fiscal Impact (1998 USS million)
KRASNYI OCTYABR
(depleted In 2002)
Present       Project Period           Post - Project Period
Vslue     1996   J197   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002
A. WITHOUT PROJECT                                   (1=10%)
Budget Costs                                      31.2      6.5    6.6    5.7    5.9        6.0     6.2    11.7
(1) Payments to Coal Industry                                  5.5    5.6    5.7    5.9        6.0     6.2     6.3
f2 Mine closure & mitigation                                                                                   5.4
Budget Revenues                                             1.6     1.7    1.7    1.7    1.8        1.8     1.8
(3) Contributions to social funds                              1.0    1.1      1.1    1.1      1.1     1.2     1.2
(4) Taxes                                                      0.6    0.6      0.6     0.6    0.6      0.6     0.7
Net Impact on Budget                                        .3.9   -4.0    4.1    -4.2   -4.3   -4.4    -9.9
B. WITH PROJECT
Budget Costs                                      12.9      6.4    3.8      1.9     1.3    1.1      1.0    0.8
(5) Payments to Coal Industry                                  3.3
(a) Mine closure & environmental mitigation                    2.0     1.8
(7) Mitigation of social impact                                0.9     1.7    1.6    1.1       1.0     1.0    0.8
(8) wof.  -bans(wss. ha o60/ w  mnico-cadit                    0.2    0.7      0.7     0.3    0.2      0.2    0.1
(9)       -disability pyenfts                                  0.6    0.6      0.5     0.5    0.5      0.5     0.5
(10)       -mainunance&opwutionofsocial infresfuctem            0.2    0.4      0.4    0.3    0.3       0.3     0.4
(ii) Admin. costs for UCC (incl. TA)                            0.2    0.3      0.3    0.2    0.1
Budget Revenues                                | 2-.5|   0.5    0.5         0.6    0.5      0.5     0.6    0.5
(12) contributions to social funds                              0.4    0.4      0.4    0.4      0.4     0.4    0.4
(13) taxes                                                      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1         0.1    0.1
Net Impact on Budget                                        -6.0    3.3   41.4   40.8    40.6    40.4    40.3
C. INCREMENTAL NET IMPACT ON BUDGET                 |12         .2.1    0.7      2.7    3.3      3.7    3.9      9.7



UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                            ANNEX 16
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                                Page 7 of 13
Costs of Local Coal Production vs. Imports (in financial 1996 terms)
KRASNYI OCTYABR
actual                         projected
1995       1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
A. Local Coal
workers                                          no.      1470        1470   1470   1470   1470   1470   1470   1470
raw coal sold                                     kt       92           91     89     88     86      85     84     82
free coal to workers                              kt  I5                 5 5 5    5   5  55                         5
raw coal produced (geology worsens)      |1.5%    kt        7           96     94     93     91      90     89     87
base operating costs                              S/t      76
recurring investments                             S/t      3.8
social infrastructure mainten. & oper.            Snt     4.1
sub-total                                         Sit     83.9
ex-mine costs (input prices increase)    |2.0%1  MS        8.1         8.3    8.5    8.6    8.8    9.0    9.2    9.4
thereof supplies                        MS       3.8         3.9    4 0    4.1    4.1    4.2    4.3    4.4
wages                            MS       1.7          1.8    1.8    1.9    1.9    19      20     2.0
contnb. tosocialfunds            MS       1.0          1.0    111      11    1.1    11 1t    2     1.2
disability payments              MS       0.6          0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.7
social infrastnrctuce costs      MS       0.4          0.4   0o4    0.4    0.4   0o4    0.5    0.5
taxes                            MS       0.6          0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.7
raw coal ash content                              %    |31%|
raw coal calorific value                        GJtt      19.7
transport fixed charge                            st       2.5         2.6    2.6    2.7    2.7    2.8    2.8    2.8
transport variable charge                      cUtkm       t!BA        1.8    1.9    1.9    1.9    2.0    2.0    2.0
transport distance raw coal                       km       20
costrawcoalintocleaningplant                      S/t     91.4       94.6   98.0  101.6  105.2  109.0  112.8  116.8
cleaning cost                                     Stt      1.6         1.6    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.8    1.8    1.8
clean coal ash content                            %       19Xl
clean coal calorific value                      GJA       23.7
clean coal recovery                               %       86%
clean coal shipped tonnage                        id       79           78     77     75      74     73     72     71
energy                           PJ       1.9          1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.7    1.7    1.7
costcleanedcoal                                  SVI      108.1      111.9  115.9  120.1  124.3  128.8  133.3  138.0
transport distance cleaned coal                   km     [5 |
costoflocalcoalatconsumer                         Sit    111.5       115.4  119.5  123.7  128.0  132.5  137.1  141.8
YIGJ      4.7          4.9    5.0    5.2    5.4    5.6    5.8    6.0
MS       8.6     | 8.7    8.9    9.1    9.2    9A         9.6    9.8
B. Imocrted Coal
quantity        tonnage                            kt                   75     74     72      71     70     69     68
energy                           PJ                    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.7    1.7    1.7
ash content                                       %      [16
calorific value                                 GJnt      24.7
present border price                              Sit      36
after border price increase              |3.0% l St                   37.1   38.2   39.3   40.5   41.7   43.0   44.3
costs of import at border                        MS                    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.9    2.9    3.0    3.0
inland transport distance                         km    [ 2I00]
inband transport costs                           MS                    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
cost of imported coal at consumer               S/GJ                    1.7    1.8    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.0    2.1
MS                    3.2    3.3    3.3    3A      3A     3A     3.5
| no-.|   key input data



UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                               ANNEX 15
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                                   Page 8 d 13
Economic Costs and Benefits (1996 USS million)
PRAVDA
Ideplad In 2010)
Present         Project Period                 Post - Project Period
value      1996    1997    1998       99      2000    2001    2002    2003   2 0    2005                  2007    2008 20L          2010
A. WITHOUT PROJECT                         (i-1O%)
Costs                                   84.3        9.9     10.0    10.2    10.4    10.6    10.8    11.0    11.2    11.4    11.6    11.8    12.0    12.2    12.4    20.0
('i Coalproduction                                     9.9     10.0    10.2    10.4    10.6    10.8    11.0    11.2    11.4    11.6    11.8    12.0    12.2    12.4    12.6
(2)  H:mo.  -suppeies 6  vices                         6.6      6.7      6.9     7.0      7.2      7.3     7.4      7.6      7.7     7.9      8.1      8.2     8.4      8.5      8.7
(3- wwages                                             1.5      1.6      1.8     1.6      1.7      1.7     1.7      1.8      1.8     1.8      1.9      1.9     1.9      2.0      2.0
(4)         - cod cdening 6 dishibution                0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.7
(5)         -manen.6Apwr.dosocialinrmsr.               0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.1     1.1      1.1      1.1
(6) Mine closure & mitigation                                                                                                                                                    7.4
Benefits                                53.3        6.8      6.8     6.9      6.9      7.0     7.0      7.0      7.1     7.1      7.1      7.2     7.2      7.2      7.3      7.3
(7) Coal delered to consumers                          6.8      6.8     6.9      6.9      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.1      7.1     7.1      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.3      7.3
Net Benefib                                         -3.1    -3.2    -3.3    -3.5    -3.6    -3.8        3.9    .4.1    -4.2    -4.4    -4.6    -4.8          6.0     C.1   -12.7
B. WITH PROJECT
Costs                                F  83.0  1   12.8    12.1    10.6    10.2    10.1    10.1    10.2    10.3    10.4    10.5    10.6    10.7    10.9    11.0    11.1
(e) Coal production                                    5.9
(9) Coal imports                                       2.7      6.8     6.9      6.9      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.1      7.1     7.1      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.3      7.3
(10) Mine closure & environmental mitigation            1.9      1.6
(11) Mitigation of social impact                        0.2      0.9     0.9      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6      0.7
(12y  med:  -FensAfrdmmneworen                          0.2      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1
(13)         -freecoul                                           0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.6      0.8
(14)         -miaawud its                                        0.4      0.4             4.08    40.06    40.06    40.06    40.06    .0.08    40.06    -0.08    40.06    -0.08
(15) Mainten.& oper.ofsocial infrastructure             0.3      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9      0.9     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.1     1.1      1.1      1.1
(1e) Admin. cots for UCC (imd. TA)                      0.2      0.3     0.3      0.2      0.1
(17) Wages                                              1.5      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.7      1.7     1.7      1.8      1.5     1.8      1.9      1.9     1.9      2.0      2.0
(18)  bhro   -bunsafwd mine wlrkwa                      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2
(19)         -otw S-awhmnminewoers                     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.6      1.6      1.8     1.7      1.7      1.7     1.8      1.8      1.8
6enerits                                69.2  1    8.7       8.8     8.8      8.9      9.0     9.1      9.2      9.2     9.3      9.4      9.5     9.6      9.6      9.7     9.8
(20) Coal delivred to consumers                         6.8      6.8     6.9      6.9      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.1      7.1     7.1      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.3      7.3
(21) Valueofoutputfrom re-employed miners               1.9      1.9      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.1     2.1      2.2     2.2      2.3      2.3      2.3     2.4      2.4      2.5
(22)  Ysrd:  - rnstnad mine workers                     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2
(23)         -ott erx-futumminewowiers                 1.7      1.8      1.8     1.8      1.9      1.9     1.9      2.0      2.0     2.1      2.1      2.1      2.2     2.2      2.3
Net Benefits                                        4.1    -3.3    -1.7    -1.3    -1.1    -1.0    -1.1          1       -1.1    -1.2    -1.2    -1.2    -1.2    -1.3    -1.4
C. INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS                   173        -1.1    -0.1      1.6      2.2     2.5      2.7      2.8     3.0      3.1      3.3     3.4      3.6      3.7      3.9     11.3
Economic rate of retum    93%



UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                                 ANNEX 15
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                                      Page 9 of 13
Fiscal Impact (1996 USS million)
PRAVDA
(depleted In 2010)
Present        Project Period                                            Post - Project Period
Value     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   2005   2006    2007    2008    2009   2010
A. WTHOUT PROJECT                                      (i=10%)
BudgetCosts                                        76.7       8.4     8.7     8.9      9.2     9.4     9.7     9.9    10.2    10.5    10.8    11.1    11.4    11.7    12.1    21.1
(1) Payments to Coal Industry                                    8.4     8.7     8.9      9.2     9.4     9.7     9.9    10.2    10.5    10.8    11.1    11.4    11.7    12.1    12.4
(2) Mine closure & mitigation                                                                                                                                                       8.7
Budget Revenues                                    23.8       2.8     2.9     2.9      3.0     3.0     3.1     3.2      3.2     3.3     3.4     3.4      3.5     3.6     3.6     3.7
(3) Contributions to social funds                                1.8     1.8      1.9     1.9     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.1     2.1     2.2     2.2      2.2     2.3     2.3     2.4
(4) Taxes                                                        1.0     1.0      1.0     1.1     1.1     1.1      1.1     1.2     1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2     1.3     1.3      1.3
Net Impact on Budget                                         -5.6    -5.8    -6.0     4.2    -6.4    4.6    46.8    -7.0    -7.2    -7.5   -7.7    -7.9    -8.2    -8.4   -17.4
B. VWTH PROJECT
Budget Costs                                     r 22.6       8.7     4.7     2.9      2.3     2.1     1.9     1.7      1.6     1.5     1.4     1.3      1.3     1.3     1.3     1.3
(5) Payments to Coal Industry                                    5.0
(6) Mine closure & environmental mitigation                      1.9     1.6
(7) Mitigation of social impact                                  1.6     2.8      2.6     2.1     2.0     1.9      1.7     1.6     1.5     1.4      1.3     1.3     1.3     1.3      1.3
(8) thereof  - transfers, fee coal & micro-credit                0.2      0.9     0.9     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.6     06      0.6      0.6     0.7
(9)        -disability payments                                  1.0     1.0      09      09      0.9      0.9     0.8     0.8     0.8      08      0.7     0.7     0.7     0.7      0.6
(10)        - maintenance & operation of social infrastructure    0.3      0.9     0.8     0.7     0.6      0.5     0.4     0.3     0.2     01
p 1) Admin. costs for UCC (incl. TA)                              0.2     0.3      0.3     0.2     0.1
Budget Revenues                                  | 7.1  |   0.8       0.8      0.9     0.9     0.9     0.9      0.9     1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.1     1.1      1.1
(12) contrbutions to social funds                                 0.6     0.6      0.7     0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7     0.7     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8
(13) taxes                                                        0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.3     0.3      0.3
Net Impact on Budget                                          -7.9    -3.8    -2.1    -1.4    -1.2    -0.9    -0.8    -0.7    -0.6    -0.4    -0.3    -0.3    -0.2    -0.2    -0.2
C. INCREMENTAL NET IMPACT ON BUDGET                      37.3      -2.3    1.9      3.9     4.7      5.2     5.6     6.0     6.3      6.7     7.0     7.4     7.7      7.9     8.2    17.1



UKRAINE -COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                ANNEX 15
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                   Page 10 of 13
Costs of Local Coal Production vs. Imports (in financial 1996 terms)
PRAVDA
actual                                                   projected
1995       1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
A. Local Coal
workers                                no.     1800       1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800  1800
raw coal sold                           kt      197        193   189   185   181   177   173   169   166   162   159   155   152   149   145   142
freecoaltoworkers                       kt    1296|          13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13
rawcoalproduced(geologyworsens) |2.0%|  kt     210|        206   202   198   194   190   186   182   179   175   172   168   165   161   158   155
base operating costs                   St       60|
recurring investments                  S/t      3.0
social infrastructure mainten. & oper.  S/t     4.0
sub-total                               Sh     67.0
ex-minecosts(inputpricesincrease) |2.0% | M$   14.1        14.4  14.6  14.9  15.2  15.5  15.8  16.2  16.5  16.8  17.2  17.5  17.8  18.2  18.6  18.9
thereof: supplies & services         MS       65          66    67    69    70    72    73    74    76    77    79    81    82    8.4   8.5   8.7
waegs                          MS       30          31    31    32    33    33    34    35    35    36    37    3.7    38    3.9   4.0   4.1
contnb. to social funds        MS       18          18     18    19    19    20    20    20    21    21    22    2.2    22    23    23    24
disabilitypayments             MS       10          10    1.0    10    11    11    11    11    12    12    12    12    12    13    13    1.3
social nfrastnrcture costs     MS       08          09    09    09    09    09    09          10    10    10    10    10    11    11    11    11
taxes                          MS       10          10    10    10    11    11    11    11    12    12    12    12    12    13    13    1.3
raw coal ash content                    %      32%
raw coal calorific value              GJIt     19.4
transport fixed charge                 $S1      2.5         2.6   2.6   2.7   2.7   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8
transport variable charge            Ct/tkm     1.8         1.8   1.9   1.9   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
transport distance raw coal            km       15
cost raw coal into cleaning plant       S/t    74.2       77.2  80.4  83.8  87.3  90.9  94.6  98.5  102.5  106.8  111.2  115.8  120.6  125.6  130.8  136.3
cleaning cost                          S/t   E16l           1.6    1.7   1.7   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.9   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.1   2.1    2.2
clean coal ash content                  %      19%
clean coal calorific value            GJRt     23.7
clean coal recovery                     %      85%
clean coa tonnage                       kt      167        164   160   157   154   150   147   144   141    138   135   132   129   126   124   121
energy                         PJ      4.0         3.9   3.8   3.7   3.6   3.6   3.5   3.4   3.3   3.3    3.2   3.1   3.1    3.0   2.9   2.9
costcleanedcoal                         SRt    89.1        92.8  96.6  100.6  104.7  109.0  113.4  118.0  122.8  127.9  133.1  138.6  144.3  150.2  156.4  162.9
transport distance cleaned coal        km    |
costoflocalcoalatconsumer               sR     92.5        96.3  100.1  104.2  108.4  112.8  117.2  121.8  126.6  131.6  136.9  142.3  148.0  153.9  160.1  166.6
S/GJ      3.9         4.1    4.2   4.4   4.6   4.7   4.9   5.1    5.3   5.5   5.8   6.0    6.2   6.5   6.7   7.0
MS      14.9       15.2  15.5  15.8  16.1   16.4  16.7  17.0  17.3  17.6  17.9  18.3  18.6  19.0  19.3  19.7
B. Imported Coal
quantity  tonnage                       kt                  157   154   151   147   144   141    138   135   132   129   127   124   121    119   116
energy                         PJ                  3.9   3.8   3.7   3.6   3.6   3.5   3.4   3.3   3.3   3.2   3.1   3.1    3.0   2.9   2.9
ash content                             %    [6%
calorific value                       GJ/t     2.7
present border price                    SRt     36
after border price increase    | 3.0% |SR                  37.1   38.2  39.3  40.5  41.7  43.0  44.3  45.6  47.0  48.4  49.8  51.3  52.9  54.5  56.1
costs of import at border              MS                   5.8   5.9   5.9   6.0   6.0   6.1   6.1    6.2   6.2    6.3   6.3   6.4   6.4   6.5   6.5
inland transport distance              km    | 200|
inland transport costs                 MS                   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8
cost of Imported coal at consumer     S/GJ                  1.7    1.8   1.8   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.1   2.1    2.2   2.2   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.5
MS              |   6.8   6.8   6.9   6.9   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.1   7.1   7.1   7.2    7.2   7.2   7.3   7.3
|no.     key input data



UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                                 ANNEX 15
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                                     Page 11 of 13
Economic Costs and Benefits (1996 US$ million)
REMOVSKAYA
(depletd In 2005)
Present         Project Period                 Post - Project Period
Value      1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
A. WITHOUT PROJECT                            (=-10%)
Costs                                      34.8       5.1      5.2      5.3     5.3      5.4      5.5     5.6      5.6      6.7     10.2
(I) Coal production                                       5.1     5.2      5.3      5.3     5.4      5.5      5.5     5.6      5.7      5.8
(2)   thereo:   supplies 6 servces                        3.3      3.4     3.5      3.5      3.6     3.7      3.8     3.8      3.9      4.0
(3)            . wages                                    0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9
(4)            -cool cbening bdis5ribution                0.7      0.7     0.7      0.e     0.       0.6      0.8      0.5     0.5      0.5
(5)            -mainten.6oper. of social infrssfr.        0.3      0.3     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4
(6) Mine closure & mitigation                                                                                                           4.4
Benefits                                   25.9       4.7      4.6      4.4     4.3      4.2      4.1      3.9     3.8      3.7     3.6
M  Coal delivered to consumers                            4.7     4.6      4.4      4.3     4.2      4.1      3.9     3.8      3.7      3.6
Net Benefits                                          40.5    40.6    40.8    -1.0    -1.2    -1.4    -1.6    -1.8    -2.0    -6.6
B. WITH PROJECT
Costs                                      38.5        7.2     7.6      6.7     6.1      5.8      5.7      5.6     5.5      5.4      5.1
(8) Coal production                                       3.1
(9) Coal imports                                          1.9     4.6      4.4      4.3      4.2     4.1      3.9     3.8      3.7      3.6
(10) Mine closure & environmental mitigation               1.0     0.8
(11) Mitigation of social impact                           0.2     0.8      0.8      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.2
(12)    tha,of   -bunsafrwofmineworkers                    0.2      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1
(13)            - fee coal                                          0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4
(14)            -micr-credits                                       0.4     0.4             .0.08    -0.06    40.06    40.06    -0.08    -0.26
(15) Mainten.& oper. of social infrastructure              0.1      0.3     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4
(16) Admin. costs for UCC (incl. TA)                       0.2     0.3      0.3      0.2     0.1
(179 Wages                                                 0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9
(18)   tiweof  -bansferfed mine workes                     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.4      0.4
(19)            -otherex-&futuremine workers               0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5
Benefits                                  531.7         .6     6.4      5.3      5.2     5.1      5.0      4.9     4.8      4.7      4.6
(20) Coal delivered to consumers                           4.7      4.6     4.4      4.3      4.2     4.1      3.9      3.8     3.7      3.6
(21) Value of output from re-employed miners               0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
(22)   thweof   - ansfemed mine workers                    0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.4      0.4
(23)            -other ex-Sfuture mine workers             0.6      0.6     0.6      0.e      0.6     0.6      0.6      0.7     0.7      0.7
Net Benefits                                          -1.7    -2.1    -1.4    -0.9    -0.7    -0.6    -0.6    -0.7    -0.7    -0.5
C. INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS                                 -1.2    -1.5    -0.5      0.2      0.6     0.8      1.0      1.1      1.3     6.1
Economic rate of return   20%



ANNEX 15
Page 12 of 13
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Fiscal Impact (1996 US$ million)
REMOVSKAYA
(depleted In 2005)
Pnesent       Project Period                       Post - Project Period
Value     1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004   2006
A. VWTHOUT PROJECT                                   (rI10%)
Budget Costs                                    F 26.5|   3.1    3.3    3.6    3.8    4.1    4.3    4.6             4.8    5.1    10.3
(1) Payments to Coal Industry                                  3.1    3.3      3.6     3.8    4.1    4.3       4.6    4.8    5.1       5.3
y2) Mine closure & mitigation                                                                                                          5.0
Budget Revenues                                | 9.2  |   1.4    1.4        1.4     1.5     1.5    1.5      1.6    1.6      1.6    1.7
(3) Contributions to social funds                              0.9    0.9      0.9     0.9     1.0    1.0      1.0    1.0      1.0    1.1
(4) Taxes                                                      0.5    0.5    0.5       0.5    0.5    0.5       0.6    0.6      0.6    0.6
Net Impact on Budget                                        -1.7   -1.9   -2.1    -2.4   -2.6   -2.8   -3.0    3.2    -3.6    -8.7
B. WITH PROJECT
Budget Costs                                   |113         3.9     2.7    1.9      1.3    1.1    1.0       1.2    1.1      1.0    0.7
(5) Payments to Coal Industry                                  1.8
(a) Mine closure & environmental mItigation                    1.0    0.8
(72 Mitigation of social impact                                0.8     1.6     1.6    1.1      1.0     1.0    1.2    1.1       1.0    0.7
(0) d:wea   - bnsAw. he coal 3 miacreo.dif                     0.2    0.8      0.8    0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4    0.4      0.4    0.2
(9)       - disabilify paymets                                 0.5    0.5      0.5    0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4    0.4      0.4    0.4
(10)       -mainMnce & opefatin d social in6fshctue             0.1     0.3    0.3      0.3    0.2    0.2       0.4    0.3    0.2    0.1
(ii) Admin. costs fbr UCC (ncl. TA)                             0.2    0.3    0.3       0.2    0.1
BudgetRevenues                                    2.7       0.4    0.4      0.4    0.4      0.4    0.5      0.5    0.5    0.5       0.5
(y2) contributions to social funds                              0.3    0.3      0.3     0.3    0.3    0.3       0.3    0.4    0.4       0.4
(13) taxes                                                      0.1    0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1    0.1      0.1    0.1    0.1       0.1
Net Impact on Budget                                        -3.5    -2.3   -1.5    0.9 S    0.7   -0.6   -0.7   -0.6   -0.5   -0.2
C. INCREMENTAL NET IMPACT ON BUDGET                              -1.8   -0.4    0.7      1.4    1.9    2.2       2.3    2.6      2.9     8.4



UKRAINE - COAL PILOT PROJECT                                                  ANNEX 15
ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                     Page 13 of 13
Costs of Local Coal Production vs. Imports (in financial 1996 terms)
REMOVSKAYA
actual                                  projected
1995       1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001   2002  2003  2004  2005
A. Local Coal
workers                                    no.   | 1420 1    1420  1420  1420  1420  1420  1420  1420  1420  1420  1420
raw coal sold                               kt      181         171    162   153   145   137   129   122   115   109   102
free coal to workers                        kt      15           15     15     15     15     15     15     15     15     15    15
rawcoalproduced(geologyworsens)    F5.% A   kt      196         186   177   168   160   152   144   137   130   124   117
base operating costs                        S/t     32
recurfing investments                       SR/     1.6
social infrastructure mainten. & oper.      S/t     1.7
sub-total                                   SRt     35.3
ex-mine costs (input prices increase)  |2.0%   MS   6.9         7.1    7.2   7.3   7.5   7.6   7.8   7.9   8.1    8.3   8.4
therof: supplies                  MS       3.3         3.3   3.4    3.5   3.5   3.6   3.7    3.8   3.8   3.9   4.0
wges                        MS       1.5         1.5   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.7    17    1.7   1.8    18
contrib. tosocialfunds      MS       0.9         0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9    10    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1
disabilty payments          MS       0.5         0.5   0.5    0.5    05    05    0.5    06    06    0.6   0.6
social infrastructure costs  MS      0.3         0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4
taxes                       MS       0.5         0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6
raw coal ash content                        %    |51%
raw coal calorific value                   GJA      13.0
transport fixed charge                     S       2.5         2.6   2.6   2.7   2.7   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8
transport variable charge                ctRkm      1.8M        1.8   1.9   1.9   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
transport distance raw coal                 km       0
cost raw coal into cleaning plant           S/t    40.7       43.8  47.0  50.6  54.5  58.6  63.1   67.9  73.2  78.9  85.1
cleaningcost                                Sll   ETCj          1.6   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.9   1.9   2.0
clean coal ash content                      %       19X
clean coal calorific value                 GJA      23.7
clean coal recovery                         %       66%
clean coal shipped tonnage                   kt     119         113   107   101    95    90    85    80    76    72    68
energy                      PJ      2.8         2.7   2.5   2.4   2.3   2.1    2.0    1.9   1.8   1.7   1.6
costcleanedcoal                             SR      64.1       68.8  73.8  79.2  85.1   91.5  98.3  105.7  113.7  122.5  131.9
transport distance cleaned coal             km        0
cost of local coal at consumer              SA      67.5       72.2  77.3  82.9  88.8  95.3  102.1  109.5  117.5  126.2  135.7
S/GJ      2.8         3.0   3.3   3.5   3.7   4.0   4.3    4.6   4.9   5.3   5.7
M$      7.7     |   7.8   7.9   8.0   8.1   8.3   8A    8.5   8.6    8.8   8.9
B. Imported Coal
quantity       tonnage                       kt                 108   103    97    92    87    82    77    73    69    65
energy                      PJ                  2.7   2.5   2.4   2.3   2.1    2.0    1.9    1.8   1.7    1.6
ash content                                 %       16%
calorific value                            GJ/t        5
present border price                        S't     36
after border price increase         |3.0% | S/t                37.1   38.2  39.3  40.5  41.7  43.0  44.3  45.6  47.0  48.4
costs of import at border                   MS                   4.0   3.9   3.8   3.7   3.6   3.5   3.4   3.3    3.2   3.1
inland transport distance                   km      200
inland transport costs                      MS                  0.7   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.5   0.5    0.5   0.4
cost of Imported coal at consumer         S/GJ                   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.1   2.1    2.2   2.2
MS                  4.7   4.6   4.4   4.3   4.2   4.1    3.9   3.8   3.7   3.6
|-no.     key input data



Ukraine
Coal Pilot Project
|World Bank|
,@E
Ukraine
MCIMOF              implementation                                          Oblast
Agreement  
c,2/   \\   ~Project   I
Poj ect 
City 2
Grant Agreement (GA):    UDKR - Donetsk Oblast - Project City 1
UDKR - Donetsk Oblast - Project City 2
UDKR - Donetsk Oblast - Project City 3



UKRAINE COAL PILOT PROJECT
Role of UDKR, Donetsk Oblast and Municipalities
<~~       Di~sbursement         
- Technical/Physical                                                     - Divestiture
Closure                                                          of Social Assets
- Labor Component                                                Special Account
- Technical Assistance                 /                         O3
Special Account
tJkrainian State Company
for Restructuring Coal
Industry Enterprises (UDKR)
Municipal Administrations
n\annas\ukrcoal\flow .ppt



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 6
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Social Impact Monitoring and Evaluation of Coal Pilot Project
1.     Background: The following draft terms of reference on scope of work for the design and
implementation of a social impact monitoring program shall be reviewed and revised as necessary by
a designated Government of Ukraine Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) team or staff members. Due
to its important administrative role in the social mitigation program of the pilot project, the Ukrainian
State Company for Restructuring Coal Industry Enterprises (UDKR) will assume the major
responsibility for the social monitoring program, in close consultation with the Bank and other
Ukrainian specialists. Periodic social assessment research and participatory discussions and
workshops with the mining communities during the course of the project will build upon the
information based collected by the UDKR. The technical assistance anticipated from the UK Know-
How Fund to build capacity at the UDKR will focus, among other things, on a detailed manual of
"operations and procedures" which will guide the UDKR's role in the social monitoring program.
2.     The small, pilot nature of the Bank's first investment in Ukraine's ongoing coal restructuring
effort offers a valuable opportunity to learn first hand about the direct and indirect social impacts of
mine closures, as well as the effectiveness of various social protection measures, social asset
transfers, and employment-creation measures. The social monitoring and evaluation of the pilot
mines will help guide the design and implementation of the Government's restructuring program and
help to shape Bank assistance to the sector (i.e. a larger investment project and sector adjustment
loan).
3.     Obiectives: The general objectives the Pilot Project's social impact monitoring program are
multiple: (i) to ensure that workers are informed of the mine closure schedule and their rights to
information, consultation, benefits, and options on a timely basis per existing regulations or law; (ii)
to ensure that individual and household benefits under Ukraine law are distributed on time to all
eligible workers under the project by various responsible line agencies; (iii) with the transfer of social
assets from the mines to the municipal governments, to ensure the delivery of services to eligible
workers and their families, including free coal subsidy, housing, education, health, etc; (iv) to ensure
that full assistance through public information, job counselling, and retraining is offered to interested,
redundant workers regarding new employment possibilities (i.e. in adjacent mines, in private firms, in
microenterprise, or public works; (v) to document the process of affected party consultation and
participation in decision-making about options and outcomes of the intended social mitigation plan at
the mines; (vi) to establish a functional mechanism for handling any grievances in the program,
possibly through a Petitions Department at UDKR; (vii) to identify constraints in quality and
functioning of the elements in the system and make necessary changes; (viii) to build up capacity in
the UDKR as an institution that can administer, coordinate, and monitor benefits and service delivery
to affected workers under the project; (ix) to evaluate the actual social impacts of restructuring
through the Mine Closure Plans and compare them to the relative impacts of non-Bank assisted coal
and other sector reform programs ongoing in Ukraine.



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 6
4.     Social Protection Plan: An important component of the Pilot Project's social mitigation
program relies on the Ukrainian legal social protection system. For specific monitoring of its various
benefits, it was agreed that the Ministry of Coal Industry and/or the Project Steering Committee
would intervene if necessary to ensure the monthly flow of records from appropriate line agencies to
UDKR. The designated M&E staff or team of UDKR will assume the responsibility of confirming
eligibility, information collection and management, and systematic communication of social
monitoring information to the Bank team. For the first 4 months of the project, to ensure that the
basic social safety benefits are being delivered on time to all those eligible, information should be
collected and communicated to the GOU-Bank team every month. If the system is functioning well
after the first 4 month period, quarterly monitoring can resume. As an example, the following
information on social safety protection will be documented and sent by the responsible institution to
the UDKR, and conveyed to the GOU-Bank project team:
(i)    Severance payments: UDKR will be the "temporary" employer of the three pilot
mines at closure, and is responsible for directly delivering the one-time severance
payment of 3 months average salary to each worker at the time of redundancy.
Workers who are transferred to other mines do not qualify.
(ii)    Pensions: The local branches of the Ministry of Social Protection provide monthly
pension payments. The Ministry branch offices will provide monthly accounts of
beneficiaries to UDKR.
(iii)   Disability: These benefits are paid by two sources. The local Ministry of Social
Protection is responsible for payments and records to UDKR on those eligible from
genetic or non-work related disabilities. The Mining Associations were previously
responsible for disability transfers to those injured on the job. This responsibility will
now be transferred to UDKR. The source of revenue for this benefit, formerly raised
by coal production at the mine, will need to be derived by neighboring, open mines in
the Association or by an alternative source.
(iv)   Unemployment: The local Employment Fund office is responsible for the
administration and distribution of funds to those eligible for unemployment benefits
after the 3rd month of severance is completed (and for as long as a year or more).
This office will provide monthly records to UDKR to monitor payments to eligible,
redundant workers. Pensioners in the mining sector do not qualify.
5.     Coal Subsidy and Employment Creation: A second major component of the Pilot's mitigation
program that requires social monitoring involves Bank financing of free coal subsidies to eligible
redundant workers and households, and investment in employment creation options, including: i)
reemployment support; ii) microcredit fund; and iii) public works program. Responsibility for
quarterly coal purchase and distribution to eligible households lies with the UDKR. Monitoring of
this benefit will be undertaken by the Ministry of Coal and the Bank. UDKR will receive funds for
the administration and monitoring of the reemployment support program, which involves benefits of
$600 in installments to private employers that hire and sustain the employment of ex-mine workers,
or benefits of $600 directly to those mine workers who can prove they have initiated their own private
business. In the case of the private employer, funds of $300 will be paid 3 or 6 months after payroll



ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 6
records and field verification prove employment is valid; the second $300 installment will follow at
12 months. For the self-employed, a 3-month record, supported by field verification, of successful
self-employment will justify the $600 payment. Administration, supervision and monitoring of the
microcredit funds to individuals will be undertaken by the selected financial intermediary. Full
information about availability, criteria, applicants, types of businesses, needs for technical assistance,
repayment records, program constraints, and success cases will be collected for UDKR and the Bank.
The small public works program will be administered by each municipality. Criteria and proposals
for job creation in environmental amelioration and for the equitable selection of ex-mine workers will
need to be transparent and sensitive to gender equality. In collaboration with municipal officials, the
UDKR will monitor the employment records, productivity, and sustainability of activities.
6.     Social Assets and Services: A third component to be monitored involves the transfer of social
assets and services from the mining enterprise to the municipal governments. The assets will be
immediately owned by the municipality at the time the mines designated for closure are transferred to
UDKR. The municipality will work closely with the UDKR to ensure the smooth acquisition of
assets such as housing and kindergartens, and to ensure the timely delivery of services to individuals,
households, and community.
7.     Technical Services: The fourth component involves specific technical service activities which
have been identified as essential to support the project's social objectives. These include: (i) periodic
social assessments which help generate and inform monitorable indicators; (ii) local participation
programs with stakeholders, especially affected workers, mine management, and municipalities; and
(iii) a public information program at local, regional and national levels. Finally, the quality and
reliability of the social monitoring program itself should, if possible, be annually monitored by an
outside Ukrainian research institution with no prior affiliation to the project.
8.     Preliminary Monitoring Indicators: Indicators will be further defined and modified during the
ongoing process of social assessment and participation by affected parties in the mining communities
and other stakeholders. Where appropriate, all monitoring should include gender disaggregations.
Measurements on the effectiveness of implementation will need to be taken at appropriate levels of
individuals, households/families, communities, or regions. The following is a preliminary list of
indicators. The indicators are either linked closely, or related to, the variety of social mitigation
measures under the Pilot Project.
o      access to timely information on mine closures, redundancy, and worker employment
and other alternative income options (project and non-project supported);
o      access to adequate, timely compensation by social protection plan per existing laws
(severance, disability, pension, unemployment benefits);
o      access to mechanism for grievance and/or legal recourse;
o      adequacy of cooperation and support from line agencies at local, regional, national
levels;



ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 6
o      access to employment information, job counselling, training/retraining, and
transportation support;
o      access to availability and support ($600) for reemployment with private firm or self-
employment opportunity;
o      access to information, technical guidance, financial support (up to $5000), and
supervision for microcredit;
o      access to information and availability of municipal public works jobs in environmental
amelioration (or other sector);
o      timely receipt of payment transfers to municipal governments to support acquisition
and management of new social assets and services;
o      access to and affordability of basic social services before and after transfer to
municipalities, including: housing and communal services; sport and cultural facilities;
health/profilactoria; kindergartens;
o      availability and timeliness of quarterly delivery of coal subsidies by municipalities to
those eligible;
o      ability to restore level of individual and household income, and maintain standards of
living re: housing, utilities, and services after mine closures;
o      numbers of redundant workers re-employed, income levels pre and post closure,
service level changes, attitudes;
o      numbers of redundant workers remaining unemployed, income levels pre and post
closure, attitudes, coping strategies;
o      impacts of mine closures on individual, family, community health, and environmental
health (physical, accident, psychological);
o      impacts of mine closures on mine and non-mine businesses, new business startups and
expansions, retraining rates, credit access;
o      utility and adequacy of periodic social assessments to support project objectives, and
inform mid-course adjustments;
o      efficacy and representativeness of local participation program, including participation
panels/committees as mechanisms for project decision-making and M&E;
o      utility of public information program to generate constituency support for project
implementation.



ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 6
9.     Methodology: There will be a variety of inputs from primary and secondary research, and
participatory processes, that will inform the social impact monitoring effort. Ukrainian studies and
others conducted by a variety of local institutions will be gathered, analyzed and built upon. As
currently planned, the next phase of the joint GOU-Bank social assessment will entail rapid multi-
disciplinary appraisals of social conditions at each pilot mining community. This qualitative work
will guide the design of a statistical household survey which will be conducted this summer to
establish baseline date for future monitoring at each mining community. A related study will entail
longitudinal, in-depth case interviews of vulnerable groups and other affected workers who have both
voluntarily departed and who have been made redundant by the pilot mine closures. These
individuals will be tracked and interviewed every 6 months for 3 years. Another component of the
analysis will involve matching pairs, to compare project-affected mine workers with those who have
departed voluntarily with no special mitigation package and those who continue to work at
neighboring mines. Comparisons across the different mining communities will be important to
highlight contextual differences and adequacy of social mitigation responses. Data sets will be
disaggregated by gender based on indications that women workers, and possibly their children, may
be among the most vulnerable of those affected by the mine closures. The participatory workshops
and participation panels at each mine will provide valuable, systematic grass roots information on
project design and implementation. Involvement of a locally based NGO in Donetsk is under
consideration by the team to assist with the participation program, and to play a neutral monitoring
and evaluation role.
10.   Institutional Framework: A network of Ukrainian social researchers to support the pilot
project social assessment and monitoring, as well as future investments, is currently in an early stage
of identification. Valuable experience and contacts were gained by the Bank during the recent
fieldwork by Ukrainian institutions on the Poverty Assessment. Considerations include scientists from
institutions such as Kharkiv University Department of Sociology and the Kiev Institute of Sociology,
possibly NGOs, identified social scientist staff from the ministry of Coal, the Donetsk Oblast
government, local agencies such as the Regional Information Center, the UDKR, and the participation
committees at the three pilot mines. These individuals or groups will collaborate with the Bank team
to determine more specific social impact indicators (once more social analysis is complete), to
measure and record impacts and adjustments, and disseminate results to GOU-Bank project
management. The UDKR will assume the primary role in managing the social monitoring program.
The Bank project team will also undertake its standard supervision missions two times annually, with
a special view to evaluating the efficacy and adequacy of social mitigation measures in the project.
An annual evaluation of the project and the social monitoring program may be conducted by a
Ukrainian research group that has not been involved in the project.
11.   Demonstration: The social monitoring plan in the pilot is part of the project's larger
Monitoring and Evaluation program. The pilot should offer important insights for the Government's
restructuring program and for Bank assistance projects. If the social mitigation program is adequate
under the pilot, monitoring should show the following: (i) social protection measures under Ukrainian
law can be effectively distributed to eligible beneficiaries by government institutions and can help
cushion the economic impacts of unemployment; (ii) local social impacts from coal restructuring are
not more severe, but in fact less so by means of effective social mitigation, than restructuring impacts
in other industries (mine-non-mine comparison) (iii) affected ex-mine workers, families and coal



ANNEX 17
Page 6 of 6
communities are better protected from adverse social impacts with the Bank-assisted project than
without the Bank's intervention (baseline comparison); (iv) no particular vulnerable group(s), such as
older pensioners, women workers, workers above age 35, children, double mine-income households,
or the disabled, nor a particular settlement, is relatively more damaged as a result of the project; (v)
effective consultation and participation of stakeholders at the mines translates to influence over
decision-making about the project, and longer-term participatory mechanisms for project inputs,
monitoring and evaluation prove effective at each mine; and (vi) adequate public information that is
timely and systematically disseminated helps mitigate social disruptions and build support for coal
reforms.
12.    Budget: The following budget estimates cover various Technical Services activities in support
of the social impact monitoring and evaluation prograrn:
[                                  l                                  l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __US $
1. Social Assessment               -rapid qualitative appraisals at 3 pilot
mine communities                                30,000
-household survey at 3 pilot
communities                                     40,000
- longitudinal vulnerable case profiles
(3 years)                                       10,000
- tracking and comparing ex-miners,
voluntary and forced redundancy                 20,000
Sub Total                                                                          100,000
2. Participation Program           - stakeholder meetings, workshops,
conference (possibly with NGO
assistance)                                     30,000
- Participation Committees                      10,000
- training if needed                            10,000
Sub Total                                                                          50,000
3. Public Information Program      - assistance from Ukrainian firm                100,000
4. Social Monitoring Program       - secondary data collection by UDKR              10,000
- additional documentation and studies          20,000
as needed (UDKR and others)
-publication and dissemination of               10,000
results                                         10,000
-independent Ukrainian M$E firm
Sub Total                                                                          50,000
Grand Total                                                                        300,000



ANNEX 1 7
Coal Project Performance Monitoring Matrix
Social Impacts                              Indicator                       Data Source
GENERAL
Family Health                              Infant Mortality
Low Birthweight
High Blood Pressure
Childhood Immunization
Work Related Injuries
Incidence of Alcoholism
Community Health                            Crime Rate: General
Incidence of Violent Crime
Community Appearance
Out-Migration Rates
Economic Health                             Unemployment Rate
New Business Starts/r.
Business ExpansionsNYr.
Job Re-Training Rates
Small Enterprise Credit Availability
Education                                   School Days in Full Operation
Graduation Rates
Behavioral Problems in School
Environmental Health                        Per environmental monitoring plan
PROJECT SPECIFIC
Affected Populations (workers, families, pensioners)
1. How many laid-off workers are employed ?
2. What are they earning now (more, less, the same) ?
3. Where are they living ?
Assistance to Affected Populations
1 Have eligible individuals received:
a. Severance pay
b. Unemployment compensation
c. Pension Pay
d. Disability Pay
e. Coal Distributions
f. Others ?
2. Were these payments received on time ?
a. If no, how late were they ?
3. Employment Counselors
a. Were you aware of them ?
b. Did you consult with them ?
c. Did they help you ?
Assistance to Affected Municipalities
1. How much did each city receive ?
2. Did each city receive all it expected ?
3. Were the payments to each city on time ?
4. If no, how late were they ?
collect data at 6 month intervals over 3 years
analyze all affected population data for gender, age and above/below-ground differentials



ANNEX 18
Page I of 2
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT
List of Documents Available in the Project File
Preparation Reports
1.    Identification Mission Report, May 1995.
2.     Preparation Mission Report, October 1995.
3.    Pre-Appraisal Mission Report, December 1995.
4.     Follow-up Pre-Appraisal Mission Report, February 1996.
General Project Documents
5.    Japanese Grant Agreement: TF -029340:March 1, 1996.
6.    D. Merrick: Current State and Organization of the Ukrainian Coal Industry, June 1995.
7.     Ukraine. Coal Industry Restructuring Sector Report, World Bank Report No. 15056-UA,
March 1996.
8.    Transition of Ukrainian Coal Industry to a Market Economy and Restructuring of the
Industrv, TACIS Report/92/EUK 009, November 1995.
Mitigation of Physical Closure Component Reports
Strategy for Closure
9.    K. Hunt: Seminar on Mine Closures Contribution, November 1995.
10.   K. Hunt: Strategy Note for Mine Closure in Ukraine, February 1996.
Engineering Analysis
11.   Information on Mining Associations and Independent Coal Mines of Ukraine, Designing
Institute of the Ministry of the Coal Industry "Donugi": July 1995.
12.   Proiect for Closure of Uneconomic Mines in Ukraine 1995-1996, Designing Institutes of the
Ministry of the Coal Industry "Dongiproshakht" and"Dneprogiproshakht", July 1995 (in
Russian).
13.   T.H. Hastelow: Technical Report -- Coal Sector Restructuring Project, October 1995.
14.   The Technical and Economic Report on the Closing of Khartsizkaya Colliery of the
Production Association "Oktvabrugol", Ministry of Coal Industry, June 1995.
15.   The Technical and Economic Report on the Liquidation of "Krasniy Octyabr" Mine of
"Ordzhonikidzeugol" Mining Association, Ministry of Coal Industry, June 1995.
16.   The Technical and Economic Report on the Closure of "Pravda" Mine of "Donetskugol"
Mining Association, Ministry of Coal Industry, June 1995.
17.   The Technical and Economic Report on the Liquidation of "Removskaya" Mine of
"Torezantrasit" Mining Association, Ministry of Coal Industry, January 1996.



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2
Environmental Analysis
18.   Norwest Mine Services Ltd., Calgary, Canada: Environmental Aspects of the Ukrainian Coal
Sector Restructuring Project, October 1995.
19.   Norwest Mine Services Ltd., Calgary, Canada: Ukraine Coal Mine Closure -- Environmental
Mitigation Plan, February 1996.
Social Mitigation Component Reports
Labor Issues
20.   Sedgwick Wharf (report prepared by Bruce Weston): Labor Policy, May 1995.
Job Creation
21.   Cardiff & Vale Enterprise International: The Prospects for Regional Employment in Mine
Closure Areas, November 1995.
Social Analysis
22.   Social Portrait of a Miner in the Context of Employment Problems of the Coal Mines in the
Donbass Regio , Agency for Regional Development, Donetsk Information and Analytical
Center, November 1995.
23.   T.J. Cook: Social Analysis at Three Mines, March 1996.
Social Assets Divestiture and Heating Component Reports and Legal Documents
24.   Resolution No. 891 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of November 6, 1995 "On
Transfer of Enterprise Housing Stock to Communal Property (in Ukrainian).
25.   M.D. Glasser: Local Government Finance Issues, May 1995.
26.   W.P. McCulloch III: Housing Divestiture, July 1995.
27.   P. Bodnar, ADB&Associates Ltd.: Social Assets Component, October 1995.
28.   M.D. Glasser: Local Government Finance and Stakeholder Issues, December 1995.
UDKR Component Reports and Company Legal Documents
29.   K. Hunt: Strategic Note on Creation of UDKR, December 1995.
30.   Order No. 11 of the Minister of the Coal Industry of Ukraine of January 12, 1996, "On
Creating the Ukrainian State Company for restructuring Coal Enterprises" (Appendix: Charter
of UDKR, Statement of Expenses for 1995, Staffing Plan).
31.   Enactment of the President of Ukraine of February 7, 1996, "On Coal Industry
Restructuring".
32.   Enactment No. 448r of the Donetsk City Executive Committee of March 13, 1996 "On
Registration of the Ukrainian State Company for Restructuring Coal Enterprises".






IBRD 2780A
20                                               25'                                                30, '                                              35'                                              40       I
-1 _ -   i                 BELARUS
\ /                                                                                     (  36 . 
i~~~
POLAND                          -                               -                v*    '               05iostJ.                  RUSSIAN   FEDERATION
POLAND                          'J           ,-                                         -                                       
5 Koe         t              'r            '     *  yI                     Chernihiv   TO
~~~  0               0~~~~~Sm                                         0/
\.0       ;         ,              "                                  Konobtip
LVIV-VOLYN                 Lv Kgsk                              o(S,1OSum  \                                                                         /
BASIN                             0 R,vne                                                      . Rese ouk
50                                                                                                                           rlky50-
/   v                                                                                                                                  Khorkiv-
b. c    FVa   \                            t           7ytoyr                  ~Resr oTernopI  Ts                     - i     J
REPUBLIC                         Kolush0                          eLnu V                    o                   / Ch                 i  e
| <.             _. /olUzhhorod"'-  /              I Fr
N  Nodvima ~~~~~~~~D,,est                                     0      -
25'  RO  NIA                        MOLDOVA                                                                                                  ,                (   DONETS BASIN,
UKRAINE                                 -                            ))                                           Y<                 M                edos 
COLPLOT PROJECT                                                              J
Domestic Energy Resources, Main Production                                                                        )        a                                 M-J            B            -
Areas and Coal Pilot Project Sites
Odeso -
COAL RESERVES                                                              Dnistrovskyi                                 io h'>-.-                             5                       RUSSIAN
g ___GN_TE                                                          . 3  jKro5noperek                                                                                              FEDERATION
COAL MIN NG AREAS                                                                                                                                           0 1
345-                        _                                               Yea_ vpator     i         jO                                                   45
PROJECT *OWNS/MINES                                                                                               -YevpoFo5io .- _
SELECrED TOWNS AND CITIES                                                                                                    oSimlo,ol          
O    NAT ONAL CAPITAl
ALUIONOMOUS REPEILIC OR OBLA BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONALSBWNDARlES                                                                                            Sevostopol0o     o
KILOMETERS
0  0   100    150
BLACK           S SEA                                   I      I 0     II
BULGAI                                                                                          1  0  5,              50          100         150
BULGARIA                 5~~~~~~~10'                                                              0            0     MILES 
T.APCH 1W6









IMAGING
Report No:      15351 UA
Type: SAR



