Page  1
May 6, 1998
His Excellency 
Ihor Mitiukov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevsky Street
Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
Re:
Loan No. 4016 UA (Coal Pilot Project)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Coal Pilot Project), dated July 11, 1996, 
between Ukraine (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), as amended on April 7, 1997, and to the letter of Mr. 
Makatsariya to the Bank, dated March 3, 1998, requesting that the Loan Agreement be 
amended in order to allow for funding of costs associated with audits required under 
the Loan Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to your request.  
Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
Recital D to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the reference to 
Part E of the Project with Parts E.1 and E.2.
2.
Section 2.02 (b) to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the 
reference to Part E of the Project with Parts E.1 and E.2 in connection with Special 
Account A and by adding a reference to Part E.3 of the Project in connection with 
Special Account C.  As a result, the revised Section 2.02 (b) shall read as follows:
“The Borrower may open and maintain, in commercial banks, on terms and 
conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and 
attachment, three special deposit accounts in 
Dollars (the Special Accounts), and hereby 
designated Special Account A, 
which shall be for the purposes of Parts A, B.1, D, E.1 and 
E.2 of the Project, 
Special Account B, which shall be for the purposes of Parts B.3 and C, 
and Special 
Account C, which shall be for the purposes of Parts B.2 and E.3 of the Project, 
respectively.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made 
in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.”
3.
Section 2.08 is hereby amended by replacing the reference to Part E of the 
Project with Parts E.1 and E.2.
4.
Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended by adding a reference to Part E.3 of the 
Project in sub-paragraph (iii) and replacing the reference to Part E of the Project 
with Parts E.1 and E.2 in sub-paragraph (vi).
5.
Section 3.01 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the reference to Part E of the 
Project with Parts E.1 and E.2.
6.
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
(a)
The table in Schedule 1 is hereby amended to:  (i) reduce the amount in 
Category (9), “Consultants’ Services”, to $100,000 equivalent; and (ii) add a new 
category (12), “Incremental Operating Costs under Part E.3 of the Project” in the 
amount of $200,000 equivalent, with 100% of Expenditures to be financed.;
(b)
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by adding a new definition 
(h) that reads as follows:
Page  2
“(h)
‘Incremental Operating Costs under Part E.3 of the Project’ means 
reasonable and 
necessary cost of audits required under Section 4.01 of the 
Loan Agreement, Section 4.01 of 
the UDKR Project Agreement for the year 1997, and 
Section 3.01 of the Donetsk Oblast Project 
Agreement, which would not have been 
incurred absent the Project.”
7.
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new Part E.3 to 
the Project description that reads as follows:
“3.
Financing of audits required under the Project.”
8.
Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by adding Category (12) to 
the list of “Eligible Categories” under Special Account C included in paragraph 1 (a) 
of the said Schedule.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the copy of this letter.  This amendment shall come into effect on the 
date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower the notice of its receipt of the 
copy of this letter countersigned by you.
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul J. Siegelbaum
Director
Ukraine and Belarus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
UKRAINE
By /s/ 
Date:  28 May 1998
