Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4016 UA
UDKR
Project Agreement
(Coal Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UKRAINSKA DERZHAVNA KOMPANIA Z
RESTRUKTURIZATSII PIDPRIEMSTV VUHILNOI
PROMISLOVENNOSTI
(UKRUGLRESTRUKTURIZATSIA)
Dated July 11, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4016 UA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and UKRAINSKA DERZHAVNA KOMPANIA Z RESTRUKTURIZATSII 
PIDPRIEMSTV VUHILNOI PROMISLOVENNOSTI (UDKR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between UKRAINE (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million eight hundred ten thousand 
Dollars ($15,810,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that UDKR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
UDKR, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to UDKR on the terms and conditions set forth in said UDKR 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS UDKR, in consideration of the Bank entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) UDKR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, 
jointly with the relevant agencies of the Borrower, the Mine Closure Plans and other 
activities referred to under Parts A, B, D and E of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
labor, social and environmental  practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the activities to be carried out by UDKR under such Parts A, B, D and E 
of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and UDKR shall otherwise agree, UDKR shall: 
(i)
carry out the relevant activities under Parts A, B, D and E of the 
Project in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement; and 
(ii)
carry out its operations in accordance with specific operational 
guidelines 
(Operational Guidelines) to be adopted by UDKR in respect of 
particular 
project activities, which shall be acceptable to the 
Bank, which shall 
include, without limitation:
(A)
regulations on the manner of effecting social mitigation 
expenditures 
for the consequences of mine closure; and 
(B)
regulations on the manner of distribution of coal.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and services required for Parts A, B, D and E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) UDKR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the UDKR Project 
Agreement and Parts A, B, D and E of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, UDKR shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
for the future operation of the 
facilities financed pursuant to the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. UDKR shall duly perform all its obligations under the UDKR 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, UDKR shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the UDKR Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  3
Section 2.05. (a) UDKR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, D and E of the project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the UDKR Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
UDKR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, D and E of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by UDKR of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the UDKR Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of UDKR
Section 3.01. UDKR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, labor, social and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. UDKR shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. UDKR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) UDKR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) UDKR 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account A, for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of UDKR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify UDKR thereof.
Page  4
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For UDKR:
General Director
7 Artioma Street
Donetsk 340000
Ukraine
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of UDKR, or by 
UDKR on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
the General Director or such other person or persons as General Director shall 
designate in writing, and UDKR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
UKRAINSKA DERZHAVNA KOMPANIA Z
RESTRUKTURIZATSII PIDPRIEMSTV
Page  5
VUHILNOI PROMISLOVENNOSTI
By /s/ Valeri Kuchinsky
Authorized Representative
