Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4016 UA
Donetsk Oblast
Project Agreement
(Coal Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DONETSK OBLAST
Dated July 11, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4016 UA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DONETSK OBLAST (Donetsk Oblast).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between UKRAINE (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million eight hundred ten thousand 
Dollars ($15,810,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that Donetsk Oblast agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Donetsk Oblast, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to Donetsk Oblast on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Donetsk Oblast Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS Donetsk Oblast, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has the following 
meaning: "Participating City Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
2.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Donetsk Oblast declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall, 
jointly with UDKR and the relevant agencies of the Borrower, carry out Parts B and C 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, labor, social, and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the activities required to be carried out by 
Donetsk Oblast under such Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Donetsk Oblast shall otherwise agree, Donetsk Oblast shall:
(i)
carry out its activities under Parts B and C of the Project in 
accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
the Loan Agreement; 
(ii)
implement Parts B.3 and C of the Project through the Participating 
Cities 
pursuant to an agreement (Participating City 
Agreement), to be entered into by 
Donetsk Oblast and each of the 
Participating Cities, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to 
the Bank, which shall include, without limitation: 
(A) terms and 
conditions whereby the Participating Cities shall assume 
ownership and operational responsibility for selected social assets required 
to be divested from Mining Associations in respect of Project Mines under Part 
C of the Project; (B) requirements ensuring the contribution by such 
Participating Cities of the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources 
necessary for the maintenance and delivery of the social 
services and benefits 
being provided through such social assets; and 
(C) accounting, auditing and 
record keeping requirements; and
(iii)
exercise its rights under the Participating City Agreements in 
such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower, Donetsk 
Oblast and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Donetsk Oblast 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Participating 
City Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. (a) Donetsk Oblast shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Donetsk Oblast 
Project Agreement and Part C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Donetsk Oblast shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan, 
with respect to any facilities financed 
under Part C of the Project which are 
to remain under the ownership or 
control of Donetsk Oblast, for the future 
maintenance and 
operation of such facilities; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower 
on said plan.
Page  3
Section 2.03. Donetsk Oblast shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Donetsk Oblast Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Donetsk 
Oblast shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Donetsk Oblast Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) Donetsk Oblast shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts B and C of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Donetsk Oblast 
Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Donetsk Oblast shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B and C of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Donetsk 
Oblast of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Donetsk Oblast Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Donetsk Oblast shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts, and the records and accounts for Special Account B, adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Parts B.3 and C of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Donetsk Oblast, including those of the Participating Cities, responsible 
for carrying out any activities under such Parts of the Project.
(b)
Donetsk Oblast shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Donetsk 
Oblast thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Donetsk 
Oblast thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
Page  4
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Donetsk Oblast:
34 Pushkin Boulevard
Donetsk 340105
Ukraine
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Donetsk Oblast 
may be taken or executed by the Governor of Donetsk Oblast or such other person or 
persons as the Governor of Donetsk Oblast shall designate in writing, and Donetsk 
Oblast shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
DONETSK OBLAST
By /s/ Valeri Kuchinsky
Authorized Representative
Page  5
