Page  1
April 7, 1997
Mr. Igor Mitiukov
Mr. Alexander Poshtuk
 
Minister of Finance
General Director, UDKR 
Ministry of Finance 
7 Artioma Street 12/2 Hrushevsky Street
Donetsk 340000 Kyiv-8
Ukraine 
Ukraine 252008  
Mr. Sergei Polyakov 
Governor of Donetsk Oblast 
Administration 34 Pushkin Boulevard 
Donetsk 340105 Ukraine
        Re:   Loan No. 4016 UA (Coal Pilot Project)
Amendment of the Loan Agreement and Project Agreements    
Dear Sirs:
We refer to (i) the Loan Agreement (Loan Number 4016 UA) for the above-mentioned 
Loan between Ukraine (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), dated July 11, 1996, (ii) Project Agreement between the Bank 
and Ukrainska Derzhavna Kompania z Restruckturizatsii Pidpriemstv Vuhilnoi 
Promislovennosti (UDKR), dated July 11, 1996, and (iii) Project Agreement between the 
Bank and Donetsk Oblast, dated July 11, 1996. We also refer to discussions between the 
Bank and Borrower during the February 1997 mission to Ukraine regarding the 
microcredit component of the Project (Part B.2). It was then confirmed that the 
microcredit component of the Project will be implemented by the Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of a fiscal agent bank, and that a separate 
special account will be opened for this component of the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to make the proposed 
amendments. Accordingly, the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreements are proposed to 
be amended as set forth below.
The Loan Agreement In Recital (D), the reference to “B.2” is deleted.
In Section 2.02 (b), the number of special deposit accounts is changed to three 
and Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:  “The Borrower may open and 
maintain, in commercial banks, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, three 
special deposit accounts  in Dollars (the Special Accounts), and hereby designated 
Special Account A, which shall be for the purposes of Parts A, B.1, D and E of the 
Project, Special Account B, which shall be for the purposes of Parts B.3 and C, and 
Special Account C, which shall be for the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, 
respectively. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this agreement.” In Section 2.08, 
the reference to “B.2” is deleted.
In Section 3.01 (a) (ii), the reference to “B.2” is deleted. A new sub-paragraph 
(iii) is added to section 3.01 (a) to read: “Part B.2 of the Project through the 
MOF;”.  All subsequent sub-paragraphs are renumbered accordingly. In Section 3.01 (c), 
the reference to “B.2” is deleted. In Section 3.04, the reference to “B.2” is deleted. 
In Schedule 5, sub-paragraphs 3 (a) and (b), the term “and Donetsk Oblast” is deleted. 
Schedule 6, paragraph 1 (a) is amended to read:  “the term ‘eligible categories’ 
means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (9) and (10) in the case of Special Account 
A, Categories (7) and (8) in the case of Special Account B, and Category (6) in the 
case of Special Account C, such Categories being set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;”.
Schedule 6, paragraph 1 (b) is amended to read: “the term ‘eligible expenditures’ 
means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services, works, UDKR 
Incremental Operating Expenses, Social Mitigation Expenses, Coal Distributions, 
Sub-loans, Public Works for Environmental Improvements, Social Assets Transfer Costs, 
and Project Mines’ Post-Closure Operating Expenses, required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to eligible Categories in 
Page  2
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and.”
Schedule 6, paragraph 1 (c) is amended to read:  “the term ‘Authorized 
Allocation’ means: (i) an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount  of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000; and 
(ii) an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited in Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and (iii) 
an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
in Special Account C pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.” The term “either 
Special Account” in Schedule 6, paragraphs 5 and 6 is replaced with the term “any of 
the Special Accounts”.
In Sections 2.01, 2.02, 2.03 (a), and 2.05, each reference to “B” is replaced 
with “B.1”. Bank - Donetsk Oblast Project Agreement
In Sections 2.01 and 2.04, each reference to “B” is replaced with “B.3”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by countersigning and dating the 
relevant signature sections (below) and forwarding all four signed originals of this 
letter of amendment to the other parties (UDKR and Donetsk Oblast), for their 
signature.  The last party to sign this amendment letter, should return all four 
countersigned originals of this letter to the Bank.  The above amendments will become 
effective as of the date the last countersignature, upon the Bank’s receipt of all 
four dully countersigned originals of the amendment letter.  We will notify you of the 
receipt of the countersigned originals of this letter and the effectiveness of the 
amendments.  We will also send to each party (Ministry of Finance, UDKR, and Donetsk 
Oblast) one original countersigned letter of amendment for their records.
Sincerely, 
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky        
Director  
Country Department IV 
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
UKRAINE
By /s/ Igor Mitiukov
Authorized Representative
Title:  Minister of Finance
UKRAINSKA DERZHAVNA KOMPANIA Z  
  RESTRUCKTURIZATSII PIDPRIEMSTV  
  VUHILNOI PROMISLOVENNOSTI
By /s/ Alexander Poshtuk
Authorized Representative
Title:  General Director, UDKR
DONETSK OBLAST
By /s/ Sergei Polyakov
Authorized Representative
Page  3
Title:  Governor of Donetsk Oblast Administration
