Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9387
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2149-MOR)
FEBRUARY 22, 1991
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =       Dirham
At Appraisal 04-1982        US$ 1   DH 5.30
Period Average  1981        US$ 1 = DH 5.12
1982            US$ 1 = DH 5.98
1983            US$ 1 = DH 7.11
1984            US$ I = DH 8.79
1985            US$ I = DH 9.96
1986            US$ 1 = DH 9.08
1987            US$ 1 = DH 8.32
1988            US$ 1 = DH 8.16
1989            US$ 1= DH 8.50
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCRST  =   National Coordinating Center for Science
and Technology Research
DEUG  =    Diplome d'Etudes Universitaires G6n6rales
DP     =    Directorate of Planning
ENS   =    Higher-level teacher-training schools
ESRP         Education Sector Reform Program
EST   =    Post-secundary institute of technology
FY     =    Fiscal year
ITA    =    Applied Technology Institutes
MOE    =    Ministry of Education
MOR   =    Kingdom of Morocco
PIU   =    Project Implementation Unit
WB     =    World Bank
PRC    =    Project Completion Report
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC 20433
USA
O#Ice of Direcge.GefieraI
Opecatim% Ivakatton
February 22, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project  ompletion Report on the Kingdom of Morocco
Fifth Education Prolect (Loan 2149-MOR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on the Kingdom of Morocco - Fifth Education
Project (Loan 2149-MOR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2149-MOR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation Summary.iii
1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identification and Key Information .1
B. Socioeconomic Background .
C.  Objectives and Description of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . .                 2
D.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 3
E.  Project Execution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5
F. Major Results of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  6
G.  Project Sustainability   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
H.  Performance of the World Bank ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
I.  Summary of Borrower's Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                10
J.  Government-Bank Relations during the Project  ...  .            .  .  .  .  .    .  10
K.  Consulting Services ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
L.  Documentation and Data Relating to the Project . . . . . . . . . .               11
Ll.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .                12
III. STATISTICAL INFORMTION  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  21
A. Related Bank Loans .21
B.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                21
C.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .22
D.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                23
E. Project Results .24
F. Status of Covenants .28
G.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                31
ANNEXES
Annex I  Project Implementation Schedule .33
Annex II Evolution of the Exchange Rate .34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2149-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth Education Project
in Morocco, for which Loan 2149-MOR in the amount of US $50 million was approved
on May 20, 1982. This amount was reduced to US $38 million on November 19, 1984
and to US $35.5 million on May 9, 1989. The loan was closed on March 31, 1989,
one year behind schedule. The last payment was made on January 26, 1990. An
undisbursed balance of US$ 0.6 million was cancelled at that time, thus reducing
the loan amount to US$ 34.9 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division, CDII of the Europe, Middle East & North Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part
II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a mission in February 1989, and
is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
K NGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2149-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The  project  was  designed  to  continue  the  Bank's  support  for  the
reorientation of the Moroccan education system to give greater emphasis to
practical skills and to science, mathematics and applied technology in order to
prepare school leavers more adequately for employment and to contribute to the
country's socio-economic development efforts. The project aimed at increasing
access to basic education in disadvantaged rural areas through the construction
and equipment of 40 primary schools.   It also sought to reduce educational
wastage by increasing primary school teacher effectiveness through tne
distribution of basic learning aids to primary schools and by supporting the
introduction of more relevant curricula at the primary level. Finally it aimed
at improving the training of upper secondary mathematics and science teachers
through the construction and equipment of four teacher training schools and the
development of new math and science curricula.
Implementation Experience
2.    The project experienced significant delays in construction and in equipping
the various institutions:   20 of the 37 primary schools were finished on
schedule, the other 17 were delivered with delays of 12 to 24 months; the four
higher-level teacher-training schools (ENS's) were finished with an average delay
of 24 months; the primary schools were equipped with teaching aids with an
average delay of 36 months (para. 9). Most of the technical assistance component
was eliminated from the project (para. 17).
3.    The reasons for these delays fall into four categories:
(i) the project management unit did not possess the manpower and material
resources needed to plan and coordinate execution of the various
components of the project and to maintain an overall accounting system for
a project of this size and complexity (para. 10 and 12);
(ii) the corintruct ion contracts were awarded to a small number of
companies, which were unable to provide sufficient technical personnel on
several work sites at the same time and also experienced significant
delays from their own suppliers (para. 10);



- iv -
(iii; the signing of the Government-UNICEF contract for primary school
teaching aids was delayed for two years due to objections lodged by the
Finance Ministry concerning the cost of insurance for these materials and
the possibility of producing some of these materials locally (para. 10);
and
(iv) the Government decided to shorten the ENS training programs from four
years to one year and to raise the admission level from baccalaur6at to
licence, in order to absorb a greater portion of the growing number of
university graduates whose main career prospect was teaching.   This
decision resulted in changes in the construction programs and equipment
lists (para. 15).
4.    The loan amount was reduced twice:  from US$50 million to US$38 million in
November 1984 and to US$35.5 million in September 1989.   These reductions
essentially reflect the favorable evolution of the U.S. dollar/Moroccan dirham
exchange rate (para. 11) and, to a much lesser extent, the reduction in the
technical assistance component (para. 17).
Results
5.    Quantitative results:  At present, enrollment in the 37 primary schools is
now approximately 9,200, or 115 percent of the projected enrollment, which would
confirm that demand in rural areas is very strong.   This compares to total
primary enrollment in 1989/90 of 2.1 million, of which 0.8 million in rural
areas. Analysis of the quantitative results of the ENS's has proven to be more
complex, considering the many changes made as a result of the shortened training
time:  the ENS's now train lower and upper secondary, whereas their original
function was to train upper secondary teachers only.   Moreover, they train
teachers in all subjects, whereas they were designed to train solely mathematics
and science teachers. The 4 ENS's trained a total of 1148 teachers of which 208
second-cycle mathematics and science teachers, (as opposed to the 450 projected).
The evaluation of teacher needs made at the time of project preparation was over-
estimated and it is clear now that no ENS should have been built.
6.    Qualitative  results:   The physical and quar.titative objectives were
attained to some extent. The same cannot be said of the qualitative objectives.
The project intended encouraging the introduction of practical hands-on
activities at the primary level, a continuation of the program initiated under
the Third Education Project (FY77). In light of encouraging initial results, the
Government had decided to extend the program. The specialized classrooms and
equipment provided for this purpose, however, are largely under-utilized, mainly
due to the lack of supervisory staff and appropriate programs and curricula, but
also because the small size of the schools (5 classrooms) does not permit full-
time utilization of the workshops. In fact, in spite of positive preliminary
results, experience gained by the end of implementation of the Third Education
Project showed that separate workshops were not essential for the successful
introduction of practical studies in primary schools (para. 16). Furthermore,
the lists of educational materials were drawn up without consulting the future



- v -
users, which diminished their pedagogical effectiveness (para. 13 and 16).
Finally, the ENS's underwent such rapid changes that little effort was spent on
formulating new programs (to reflect the new one-year training plan) and no
comparative evaluation of tho various options was carried out (para. 17).
Project Sustainability
7.    Clearly, the primary schools built improved access (albeit on a small
scale) to basic education for a number of children in underprivileged areas, who
will also benefit from the teaching aids provided by the project tpara. 18). The
future of the four ENS's financed by the project is less certain. One ENS has
been converted into a post-secondary institute of technology (EST), and another
ENS has been turned over to higher education and attached to an existing sciernce
department. A study of the future of the various teacher-training institutions
is planned within the context of an upcoming project to support basic education
(FY91).
Findings and Lessons
8.    The piecemeal evolution of project design reflects the switch in the Bank's
approach from support to technical and vocational secondary education to the
emerging priority of increasing access to primary education, especially in
disadvantaged rural areas. This evolution prevented the development of truly
innovative pedagogical concepts and strategies. Project design was guided by the
single objective of improving the quality and relevance of primary and secondary
education, especially as regards mathematics, science and practical skills.
However, once translated into project components, this objective proved to be too
ambitious: the substantial difficulties experienced in implementing the
construction and equipment components of the project (para. 3 above) overshadowed
the technical assistance package which, in itself, might even have warranted a
stand-alone technical assistance operation. While these physical components were
correctly evaluated and executed, the qualitative aspects concerning curricula,
training and monitoring were not accorded the amount of attention required (para.
16 and 22).  Failure to give particular attention to the pedagogical aspects
short-changed the only innovative aspect of this project, the introduction of new
curricula and educational strategies at the primary level.  A more sensible
approach would have consisted in taking inventory of the experience gained with
the primary schools financed under the Third Education Project and, on that
basis,  setting up  a group  of pilot  schools  to test new methods  before
disseminating them throughout the system. The project management unit's ability
to implement an operation of such scope had been overestimated.  The PIU had
already experienced substantial difficulties in implementing the Fourth Education
Project and, still under-staffed, found it beyond its capacity to monitor
procurement and coordinate project execution. Finally, it also seems that, in
the absence of equipment and materials, the small infirmaries that were built are
not being used for the expected purpose.   The Bank can be credited for
appropriate caution and firmness during project decign against the creation of
too many training institutions. But the lengthy preparation was not particularly
conducive to continued focus on qualitative components and this lack of attention
to pedagogical elements was also evident during Bank supervision. The lack of



- vi -
balance between physical and qualitative components seems to be the conclusions
of many education projects executed during the 1980's. This observation resulted
in the increased emphasis the Bank has given to qualitative components in more
recent operations starting with the Education Sector Reform Program (FY 86). The
Bank now pays particular attention to the pedagogical elements of projects and
focuses its effort during project design and implementation on components such
as pre- and in-service teacher training, curriculum development and evaluation
and improved planning and monitoring capacities in implementing agencies.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2149-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Prolect Identity
Project Name:             Fifth Education Project
Loan No.:                 2149-MOR
Borrower:                 Kingdom of Morocco
Sector:                   Education
Sub-sectors:              Primary Education
Post-secondary education for
secondary-teacher training
Amount of ioan:           US$50 million - reduced to US$ 38 million
in November 1984 and to US$35.5 million in
May 19891"
Board Approval:           May 1982
Effective date:           April 1983
Original closing date:   March 31, 1988
Actual closing date:      March 31, 1989 (The loan account was
closed on December 31, 1989 to permit all
disbursements for committed expenditures.)
B.    Socioeconomic Background
1.    The Fifth Education Project was prepared, negotiated, and signed at a time
of relatively favorable economic environment, although the rate of economic
growth was less than that of the early 1970's. The 1981-1985 Development Plan
set a GDP target growth rate of 6.5 percent in real terms, led primarily by
increased exports of mining products and expansion of agriculture and fishing.
These economic objectives required more technical and scientific manpower, and
priority was given to training science and mathematics teachers and to education
in technology at all levels.   Particular emphasis was also placed on social
development, and most particularly on wider and more equitable access to basic
education.   However, from the early 1980's, the economic situation became
considerably less favorable, owing mainly to the fall of export prices,
especially phosphates, and growth in military spending and debt service
expenditures. The 1981-1985 Plan did not adequately anticipate this downturn.
g Final payments were made on January 26, 1990, and an undisbursed
amount of US$ 0.6 million was cancelled at that time, thus reducing
the loan amount to US$ 34.9 million.



-2-
This situation led the Moroccan Government to reduce public expenditures in most
sectors, including social programs.
2.    In this context, even though recurrent expenditures for education were
increasing fast - from 13.9 percent of total Government operating expenditures
in 1975 to 25.9 percent in 1982 - these increases did not allow the Government
to reach its targets.   In fact, the newly available resources were used to
accommodate ever increasing student enrollment, most notably at the secondary and
post-secondary levels, where per-student costs are highest, while complementary
expenditures needed to maintain and upgrade the quality of education were
neglected. This led the Government to take a number of practical measures aimed
at increasing basic education enrollment within an improved cost-effectiveness
context and at improving the quality of education being offered, by making
effective teaching tools available to teachers, and by training   ience and
mathematics teachers. The Fifth Education Project was to assist the Government
in implementing these measures.
C.    Obiectives and Description of the Prolect
3.   Tl-e three components of the project had the common goal of improving the
quality of education at the primary and secondary levels, particularly in science
and mathematics, providing the students with a sufficiently solid foundation for
them to be well prepared to pursue technical or occupational training, and to
respond to the country's needs  for mid- and upper-level managers.   More
specifically, the project aimed at increasing the possibilities for access to
primary education, particularly in the most under-privileged rural areas,
upgrading the efficiency of basic education while improving teacher training and
making teaching aids available to teachers, and producing science and mathematics
teachers in sufficient numbers and quality.
4.    The project was to comprise:
(a) constructing, furnishing, and equipping:
(i) 40 primary schools, each capable of accommodating
200 pupils, including five classrooms, an infirmary,
and a multipurpose room (workshop, equipment storage room,
various activities); and
(ii) four teacher training schools (ENS's) to train upper
secondary science and mathematics teachers;
(b) equipping 700 primary schools with teaching aids; and
(c) technical assistance for:
(i)  preparation of a practical "hanas-on" activities
program for primary education: 12 man-months;
(ii) training of future ENS teachers and preparation of
science and mathematics curricula: 212 man-months;



- 3 -
(iii) training fellowships in connection with items a(i)
and a(ii): 369 man-months;
(iv) pre-investment studies for preparation of future
projects in the area of education; and
(v) strengthening the project management unit.
D.    Project Design and Organization
5.    The Moroccan Government's initial request to obtain financing of a fifth
education project involved continuation of the Fourth Education Project (FY79),
that is, pursuing implementation of a uniform system of technical and
occupational training with the Ministry of Labor. For this purpose, the Bank was
requested to finance the construction and equipping of four Applied Technology
Institutes (ITA's), the expansion of three existing ITA's, the creation or
expansion of 20 vocational training centers, 40 apprenticeship centers and 15
mobile training units. A tight budgetary situation forced the Ministry of Labor
to postpone a large portion of its expansion program. It was therefore decided
to use the identified Bank loan to emphasize one of the essential aspects of the
1981-1985 Plan, that is, upgrading the quality of general education and
particularly the quality of mathematics and science education. On that basis,
two missions prepared a project in November 1979 and June 1980, comprising four
essential components: construction and equipping of 40 primary schools, eight
ENS's, a National Coordinating Center for Science and Technology Research
(CNCRST), and four ITA's.   Over the course of these missions, the Moroccan
Government requested that equipping the primary schools with teaching aids and
practical activities programs be added to the project. The justificatioL. for a
construction program of 40 primary schools was never made. One can only assume
that this number resulted from two components in previous operations: a similar
number (47) of primary schools were financed under the Third Education Project
(FY77). The Fourth Education Project included the preparation of pre-investment
designs of 40 rural primary schools (again unclear why 40). Therefore, the 40
schools were included in the project more, it seems, as a ready candidate tor
financing within the overall envelope than as the derived number of schools
necessary to meet a certain enrollment objective.
6.    Over the three years that elapsed between the initial preparation of the
project in November 1979 and the signing of the Loan Agreement in November 1982,
the Government and the Bank reassessed the importance of each component and
several changes were made to project design. It was first decided to abandon two
of the components: the four ITA's, which the Government decided to finance, to
complement the ten others financed by the European Community, and the CNCRST,
whose estimated cost of US$7.6 million - US$5.7 million (75 percent) in foreign
currency - was considered too high by the Bank, taking into account the
Government's budgetary constraints and the lack of clarity of its objectives.
Second, the number of ENS's to be constructed was, despite the Government's
insistence, lowered from eight to four.  Bank staff's calculations demonstrated
that with greater efficiency in each institution - reducing the drop-out rate of
each class from 75 percent to around 10 percent between the first year of



.-4 -
training and completion of the diploma - while increasing secondary class
enrollment and the number of hours of instruction by each teacher, needs through
the 1990's could easily be met with 4 ENS's. This reduction was all the more
appropriate that it was unlikely that the pace of construction of new secondary
schools, as projected by the Government, could be sustained.   Finally, the
question of equipping primary classes with teaching aids was settled. This was
a matter of determining the number of schools to be equipped and the type of
equipment to be provided. On the basis of the materials already furnished with
funding from the Third Education Project, the Government would have preferred,
on the one hand, to receive materials for practical work as well as some audio-
visual equipment, such as a television for each school, and, on the other hand,
to equip over a five-year period, as was provided in the 1981-1985 Plan, all the
schools in the country (about 3000) at an estimated cost of US$2.2 million.
UNICEF had initially considered making a significant contribution, but its own
budgetary constraints forced it to limit its participation to one year's worth
of materials, and to training primary school teachers in the use of the
equipment.  The Bank finally agreed to finance educational materials for 700
primary schools, to be supplied by UNICEF. At the same time, it was decided to
purchase materials for practical work only for the 40 new schools to be
constructed, each of which included a workshop for this activity.
7.    The piecemeal evolution of project design reflects the switch in the Bank's
approach from support to technical and vocational secondary education to the
emerging priority of increasing access to primary education, especially in
disadvantaged rural areas.  It prevented the development of truly innovative
pedagogical concepts and strategies. Curricula that had been implemented under
the Third Education Project were applied in the primary schools without any
changes, and a certain change of heart was observed, at the time of integration
of the practical activities in these curricula, manifested by excessive caution
in drawing up the lists of equipment for the 700 primary schools. Likewise, no
specific teaching guidelines were recommended, and no training objectives were
set for the four ENS's, except that they should train future teachers in four
years following completion of the baccalaur6at. These training curricula were
left to be developed entirely by future technical assistance, for which the terms
of reference were not defined at that stage.   It is undeniable that the
pedagQgical aspects of the project should have been more carefully prepared.
8.    Preparation of the project's physica: aspects was much more thorough.
Construction sites were selected and approved well before negotiations, the list
of the 700 schools to be equipped was drawn up, the equipment list was issued,
and the drawings of the primary schools and the four ENS's were presented to and
approved by the Bank.   When the loan became effective in April 1983, the
construction contracts had already been signed, and a contract with UNICEF for
the purchase of equipment for the 700 schools was being negotiated. Over the
course of this long project preparation, particular emphasis was placed on
upgrading  the  efficiency  of  the project  unit.    Some  serious management
shortcomings in the Third and Fourth projects made it necessary to strengthen the
project management unit by adding to it some staff specialized in preparation of
construction plans and bidding documents, supervision of works, equipment
procurement, and execution of educational programs. It seems, however, that the



-5-
number of specialists to be hired was never specified, nor were their
responsibilities. Consequently, the strengthening of the project unit did not
achieve all the results expected. The numerous changes and delays experienced
are discussed in the following paragraphs.
E.    Proiect Implementation
9.    The loan closed one year late.  Of the 40 primary schools, some 20 were
completed by the target date, September 1985; 17 others were completed during
1986 and 1987; 3 were never built (see para. 13). The four ENS's were finished
between mid-1987 and the end of 1988, 24 months late on average. Due to these
significant delays, equipment was delivered to the newly constructed
installations as soon as they were completed, but it had to be stored for
extended periods, often under rather less than optimal conditions. Teaching aids
were delivered to primary schools 30 to 36 months late, on average. As explained
below, the technical assistance component was for the most part eliminated from
the project.
10.   The reasons for these delays fall into four categories.   Firstly, the
project management unit did not have sufficient manpower and material resources
to elaborate plans, prepare bidding documents, audit contracts, supervise
construction sites, draw up the equipment lists, organize and coordinate delivery
of equipment to the primary schools, and maintain an overall accounting system
for a project of this size and complexity.  The under-staffing situation was
worsened by the fact that the existing staff, even though assisted by an
architect hired by UNESCO, did not prove to have adequate motivation to confront
these overly ambitious duties. Secondly, awarding construction contracts for
primary schools to a limited number of companies, each overseeing several sites
(one of them even having had the responsibility of building 15 of the 40 schools)
made it impossible for agreed schedules to be honored, due to supply delays or
the difficulty of having trained technical staff on several sites at the same
time. Thirdly, with regard to teaching aids, the Ministry of National Education
(MEN) had expected to sign a contract with UNICEF, which had already contributed
to the financing of a portion of these materials, had agreed to finance and
provide teacher training in use of this equipment and had offered highly
competitive prices. But the Ministry of Finance's concern with the high cost of
insurance for this equipment, and their claim that several items could be
produced locally, delayed the signing of the Government-UNICEF contract until
August 1985, with final delivery to the schools around the end of 1986. Finally,
significant delays occurred in construction of the ENS's due to the changes in
objectives decided by the Government and approved by the Bank. These changes,
which affected substantially the building program and equipment lists, are
discussed below.
11.   The favorable evolution of the U.S. dollar/Moroccan dirham exchange rate
permitted reductions in the loan amount of US$12 million in November 1984 and
US$2.5 million in September 1989. Further, during execution, significant savings
were realized on project costs.   First, construction of the Casablanca ENS
boarding facilities was eliminated.   Then, on account of the changes that
occurred in the composition of the ENS's, the needs for furniture and equipment



- 6 -
for these institutions were considerably reduced. Finally, since the training
programs for which significant technical assistance had been envisaged were no
longer necessary (para. 17), this part of the technical assistance component was
eliminated. All this resulted in significant savings, lowering the total cost
of the project from US$94.5 million (of which US$50.0 million or 53 percent was
financed by the Bank) to only US$ 51.0 million (of which the Bank financed US$
34.9 million, or 68 percent). In March 1988, the Loan Agreement, was amended to
allow financing of part of the equipment for the Casablanca and Fes post-
secondary technical schools, provided under the Fourth Education Project up to
a total amount of US$8.0 million. The amount disbursed was about US$6.0 million.
12.   Two risks had been anticipated by the appraisal mission:  the weakness of
the project management unit, and the difficulty of preparing training programs
truly adapted to the requirements of mathematics and science teaching. As stated
above, some of the delays are attributable to the slowness of execution of the
project management unit, for which the project had not provided adequate
operating resources. Only toward the end of the project did the MEN undertake
an overall reorganization of that unit and created within the Directorate of
Planning (DP), the Division for Financed Projects more and better staffed. The
ENS training programs fell quite short of the objectives initially defined.
Instead of training upper secondary teachers in four years following the
baccalaur6at, the Government decided in August 1984 to implement in these ENS's
the programs used in its other secondary teacher training institutions, namely
one year of pedagogical training for holders of the licence. At the same time,
the Government requested, and the Bank accepted, that three of the ENS's financed
under the project also train lower secondary teachers, that training be provided
for all topics, and not exclusively math and science, and that the Casablanca ENS
concentrate solely on training physical education teachers.
F.    Malor Results of the Prolect
13.   Construction and equipment results.  The project objectives were mostly
attained:   37 primary schools were built (the Government having decided to
abandon the construction of three schools, a decision for which no reason can be
found in the project files), as well as four secondary teacher training
institutes, and 700 primary schools have received their teaching aids. Generally
speaking, the buildings are of good quality and should pose no particular
maintenance or durability problems. While the construction costs in dollars
appear lower than estimated at the time of appraisal (US$130 per square meter as
opposed to US$240 per square meter for the primary schools, and US$190 per square
meter as opposed to US$310 per square meter for the ENS's), this is largely due
to depreciation of the dirham. In fact, construction costs were deemed too high
to be replicable on a national scale. With a view to keeping construction costs
down, MEN decided to switch to pre-fabricated primary schools, financed under
later projects, notably the Education Sector Reform Program (ESRP) (FY86) and the
Rural Primary Education Project (FY89), in recognition of the quality of
construction and the substantial savings the pre-fabricated process allowed. The
actual cost per student place of the 37 primary schools built in this project is
about US$ 1,200, to be compared with a cost of US$ 270 per student place
estimated for the pre-fabricated schools built under the ESRP and the Rural



- 7 -
Primary Education Project. The shift from masonry to pre-fabricated accounts for
about half of the savings. The decision to no longer build separate workshops
in primary schools accounts for the other half. Some costly errors were made in
the drawing of equipment lists. Some of the materials purchased (test tubes.
precision scales, various glassware for chemistry experiments) were not even used
in primary schools.  Furthermore, an equipment storage system adequate for a
network of nucleus/satellite schools such as this one was not devised and
resulted in under-utilization of equipment by satellite schools. In the ENS's,
the excessively high estimate of 1,500 meals per day (while certain dormitory
wings had been eliminated) led to orders for the dining halls and kitchen
equipment surpassing by far the actual capacity of the institutions.
14.   Quantitative results.  According to the most recent statistics (1988-1989
school year) supplied by the DP, enrollment at the 37 schools built under the
project was about 9,200 pupils or 115 percent of projected enrollment (compared
to total primary enrollment in 1989/90 of 2.1 million, of which 0.8 million in
rural areas).   This tends to confirm that demand is very high and that the
quantitative objectives of the project corresponded to real needs. One should
note, however, that actual enrollments in the schools financed under the
following operation, the ESRP, are below projected enrollments.  It does not
necessarily follow that demand was over estimated. A number of factors such as
distance from the homes, quality of education and indirect costs will be analyzed
during the preparation of the ESRP Completion Report, scheduled for mid 1990.
The materials provided for the 700 schools should help upgrade the education
offered to about 600 pupils per school, or a total of 420,000 children for a
five-year period.
15.   In light of the changes in the training duration, reduced to one year after
attaining the licence for upper secondary teachers, and to one year after the
Dipl6.e d'Etudes Universitaires G6n6rales (DEUG) for lower secondary teachers,
the quantitative analysis of enrollments in ENS's proves to be more complex. In
fact, if we consider the overall enrollment of the four ENS's (1870 students
instead of the 3840 projected), the results are even less encouraging.  The
number of lower and upper secondary teachers coming out of these institutions in
1988-1989 was 516 upper and 632 lower secondary teachers for all disciplines.
These numbers are to be used with caution, since the four ENS's were supposed to
train only upper secondary mathematics and science teachers, and the number
trained in these subjects was only 208, instead of the 460 expected. At the time
this report was being prepared, the four ENS had not yet reached their full
capacity.   DP projections indicate that, when they are, capacity will still
exceed the need for teachers in general, and math and science teachers in
particular.   The evaluation of teacher needs made at the time of project
preparation was over-estimated and it is clear now that no ENS should have been
built.
16.   Qualitative results.  The qualitative impact of an education project can
only be measured over the long term, in our present case when the students have
completed primary school and have worked with upgraded educational materials or,
in secondary eduction, after having studied with teachers who have had access to
improved training. Yet, certain observations can already be made. In primary



- 8 -
education, the project envisaged encouraging introduction of practical "hands-on"
activities in the school, and specialized rooms and equipment had been provided
for this purpose. These resources are largely under-utilized principally because
of the lack of supervisory staff and appropriate pedagogical programs (although
adequate allocation of well-trained staff was part of project design), but also
becavse the small size of the schools (5 classrooms) do not permit full time
uti]ization of the workshops.   In fact, experience gained under the Third
Edtucation Project shows tl'-t separate workshops are not essential for the
successful introduction of practical studies in primary schools. We encounter
heare one of the major shortcomings of the project: the physical components were
correctly appraised and executed, but aspects concerning programs, training and
monitoring did not receive the attention they required.  This observation is
equally valid for the teaching aids. We stated above that more attention should
have been paid when drawing up lists. Failure to give particular attention to
the pedagogical aspects short-changed the only innovative aspect of this project,
the introduction of new curricula and educational strategies at the primary
level. A more sensible approach would have consisted of taking inventory of the
experience gained from the primary schools financed under the Third Education
Project and, on that basis, setting up a group of pilot schools to test new
methods before disseminating them throughout the system. Finally, it seems also
that, due to the absence of equipment and materials, the small infirmaries which
were built are not being used as planned.
17.   Raising the ENS entry level and shortening the length of ENS training was
used by the Government as a means to absorb the ever-growing number of university
graduates  for whom teaching was the logical  (or only)  career path.   The
Government justified their decision on the basis of the seemingly successful
experience of the Rabat ENS, which had been operating for some years on the one-
year training system. This decision, however, had no pedagogical foundation and
no comparative analysis of the value of one-year versus four-year training
programs was carried out.   Little effort was made to update the training
programs. No further effort was made to specialize certain institutions in the
training of science and math teachers, and others in liberal arts. A etudy might
have demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of this approach. The only exception
is the Casablanca ENS, which is devoted entirely to the training of physical
education teachers. Thus the issue of teacher training must not be considered
closed upon conclusion of this project. The Government and the Bank are well
aware of this unresolved issue and support for pre- and in-service teacher
training programs is included in the Rural Primary Education Project and is being
considered in the FY91 Basic Education Project under preparation.
G. Prolect Sustainability.
18.   It is clear that the primary schools built allow access to basic education
to an ever growing number of children from areas previously not or poorly served
with schools.   Also,  the project brought about the types of qualitative
improvements that accompany the presence of new buildings and better-quality
educational materials, though, as stated above, the curricula that they should
support need to be improved. Accordingly, the project's effects should endure,
and, if the Government devotes t,Le necessary funding, grow. The only foreseeable



risk for this part of the project is linked to budgetary issues.  So far, it
seems that the MEN has appropriately funded recurrent expenditures for these
schools, but caution should be exercised so that the rapid increase in the number
of schools will not create budgetary burdens that cannot be supported by the MEN,
unless the growth of expenditures in other education sub-sectors (particularly,
higher education) is curtailed.   This is precisely the dilemma the ESRP was
designed to resclve.
19.   The durability of the effects of the ENS's built under the project is more
difficult to foresee. We have already discussed the deviations from the initial
objectives. The Agadir ENS has been converted into a post-secondary institute
of technology (EST), and the Fez ENS has been turned over to higher education and
attached to the Science Department.  The future of the ENS network should be
assessed in the context of the forthcoming Secondary Education Project.
20.   It is worth noting that the project management unit, as it existed during
implementation of this project, was not maintained. Rather than strengthening
a cumbersome independent unit responsible for the entire administration of
several projects being implemented simultaneously, the Bank gave greater support
to existing planning, pedagogical, and organizational structures in the MEN. The
MEN has reorganized the DP and has assigned the administrative aspects of new
projects to the Division of Financed Projects, an innovation that seems to give
good results.
H.    Performance of the World Bank.
21.   The Bank can be credited for some of the project successes.  Firstly, for
the caution it used during the three years of preparation against excessively
increasing the number of training institutions, a concern that later proved to
be fully justified. The Bank also had a flexible attitude that facilitated an
open and cordial dialogue. This flexibility was manifested on various occasions,
for example at the time of the change in ENS programs, when technical assistance
was partially eliminated, or when it became necessary to authorize financing for
certain materials provided und-ir the Fourth Project.   The quality of this
dialogue later led the way for di.zussions of very delicate reform policy matters
during preparation and appraisal of the ESRP. Finally, the firmness demonstrated
by the Bank under certain ci.cumstances -- such as the refusal to include
swimming pools and a sauna at the Casablanca physical education ENS (lower and
upper secondqry schools do not have access to swimming as a sports activity), the
revision of certain equipment lists, simplification of certain construction
standards -- a position that led to substantial savings and greater cost-
effectiveness of the results obtained.
22.   Certain Bank weaknesses have already been mentioned.  The most significant
is the lack of innovation or application of international experiences in teaching
methods or approaches in the project resulting from a lengthy, piece-meal project
design not particularly conducive to continued focus on qualitative elements.
This was, as we have seen, quite harmful to the results, and has doubtlessly led
to the current lack of clarity about the future of certain of the ENS's.
Generally speaking, the changes proposed in the training programs were too



- 10 -
quickly accepted without concerns of pedagogical impact. In fact, these sudden
changes could and should have been anticipated if the decision-makers had
focussed greater attention on university enrollment figures. The magnitude of
the number of university graduates could have been better predicted and it would
have been easier to define an appropriate training program during preparation of
the project. Moreover, the project was insufficiently supervised by educators.
More generally speaking, the time devoted to supervision also seems to have been
too limited (36.5 staff-weeks over 7 years or about 5 staff-weeks per year on
average). Finally, the strengthening of the project management unit should have
been more carefully planned by specifying its responsibilities and defining in
detail the positions to be provided and resources needed. These weaknesses have
been taken into account when later projects were put in place, particularly as
concerns management and administration of the projects, the qualitative and
institution-building contents of which are now substantial and well-defined.
I.    Summarv of Borrower's Actions.
23.   It is undeniable that the Government's hesitations concerning its training
program for secondary teachers had an unfortunate impact on the results obtained.
The Government at first requested eight ENS's. Resolution of this issue delayed
preparation. Later, changes in programs resulted in delays and cost increases,
when it was necessary to modify the buildings to be constructed. The project
also seems to have suffered from intermittent unavailability of counterpart
funds, although this is not attributable to the MEN. To ensure adequate funding
from the government budget, a core investment program and its twice yearly review
were included in the FY88 Structural Adjustment Loan. Finally, the MEN should
have taken the initiative to strengthen the project management unit as soon as
it realized that the tasks discussed in paragraph 10 could not be performed
appropriately.
J.    Government-Bank Relations during the Project.
24.   The Government-Bank dialogue was constant, open, and direct. The fact that
several projects were developed simultaneously makes it impossible to attribute
solely to this project the benefit of the positive aspects of this dialogue. It
is, however, the quality of the ongoing dialogue that enabled the preparation and
implementation of other operations, (the ESRP and the Rural Primary Education
Project) and others to follow. Excessive focus on physical components from both
the Bank and the Borrower (partly because the project unit and the DP cannot
affect curriculum policies) has, however, created long-run misperceptions about
the Bank's commitment to the pedagogical content of projects. Donors already
participating in the quantitative and qualitative improvement of eduction in
Morocco could have been more involved in this dialogue.   In this project,
cooperation was limited to UNICEF, which assisted in an efficient and cost-
effective fashion.  Some contacts had taken place with Canada, but they were
interrupted when the training programs were modified. Increased coordination
among donors has resulted in the African Development Bank supporting the 1985
reform program through its own project and in its co-financing the Primary Rural
Education Project and the forthcoming Basic Education Project.



- 11 -
K.    Consultants Services.
25.   Construction.  Design and construction of the four ENS's were awarded to
four different companies, whereas  the 37 schools were constructed by  17
companies. Preparation of architectural programs and drawings, and construction
itself were supervised by a TJNESCO architect assigned to the project management
unit. On the whole, quality of construction is good, but failure by the builders
to meet tk_ agreed timetable (essentially for lack of sufficient technical staff
to supervise the numerous work sites, but also because of delays from their own
suppliers) substantially delayed the opening of several institutions. In the
future, it would be preferable not to award too many construction contracts to
a single firm.
26.   Equipment.    The  equipment  delivered  was  in  accordance  with  the
specifications.  Equipment sometimes suffered from lengthy storage, but this is
independent of suppliers' doing.   UNICEF's performance in the delivery of
educational materials for primary school should be applauded.
27.   Technical assistance and fellowships.  The technical assistance was only
used to pay UNESCO for the salary of the project management unit architect and
for extending the contract of the expert in charge of preparing the practical
"hands-on"  activities program  for primary  schools.   All  other  technical
assistance was cancelled when the decision was made to generalise one-year
programs for ENS's.
L.    Documentation and Data Relating to the Proiect.
28.   The project was implemented on the basis of the usual documents:  Loan
Agreement, Appraisal Report, and President's Report.  The project would have
benefitted from specific detailed working documents for each component. Such
documentation was greatly wanting, in as much as it usually contains, in addition
to the outline of the building program, the areas to be constructed, unit costs,
equipment lists, the terms of reference of consultants to be hired, and above all
the educational strategies to be followed.   It would be desirable for such
documents to be made available for future projects.   Updating of working
documents is similarly useful when objectives and scope of a project change over
the course of execution, as well as, Bank supervision staff often changes.
29.   Information needed for preparation of this Project Completion Report was
available both to the DP and in the institutions themselves. It should be noted
that the Bank's supervision reports available were quite brief and in many cases
the documents referred as annexes were missing. The new format for forms 590
shotuld allow better definition of the evolution of the project in all its forms,
and place greater emphasis on difficulties encountered, problems to be resolved,
and results obtained.



- 13 -
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.                              Prosect Identification
Project name:                   Morocco Fifth Education
Loan No.:                       2149-MOR
Borrower:                       Kingdom of Morocco
Executing agency:               Ministry  of  Education,  Planning  Department,
Rabat, Morocco
Date of signature:              November 5, 1982
Project description:            Construction and equipping of 40 primary schools
and 4 higher-level teacher-training schools
Total project cost:             US$86.4 million
2.    General
The project targeted the development, strengthening and upgrading of
teacher training in mathematics and science in order to meet the requirements for
teachers resulting from an increase in enrollments at the secondary level. At
the primary level, it was to lead to an upgrading of the quality of instruction
and greater capacity in areas with low enrollment rates.
3.    Prolect Objectives and Description
Obiectives
The project was designed to (i) support the Government's education policy,
provide more appropriate primary education and respond more efficiently to the
educational needs of rural children; (ii) assist the Government in providing
primary schools with the basic teaching aids needed for improving the efficiency
of instruction; and (iii) upgrade the quality of instruction in mathematics and
science at the secondary level through the training of trainers, curriculum
development and expansion of the Ministry's capacity for training teachers.
Proiect description
In its initial design, the project included the construction and equipping
of 40 primary schools and four higher-level teacher training schools (ENS) and
the provision of teaching aids to 700 schools.
(i)   The 40 primary schools
The 40 primary schools were to be located in 36 provinces with low
enrollment rates. Each school was to have five classrooms, an infirmary and a
workshop that could be used after school hours by the community for health
services and adult education. The workshop was to be used by boys for receiving
rudiments of vocational training related to carpentry, metal work, etc. Courses
in home economics and sewing were to be given to the girls. The schools were
also to have staff lodging to encourage the teachers to settle in the area.



- 14 -
(ii) The four higher-level teacher training s hools (ENS)
These schools were to be located in Casablanca. Fez, Agadir and Marrakech,
to train upper-secondary teachers in mathematics and science.
(iii) Provision of teaching aids
With a view to upgrading the quality of primary instruction, the project
called for the provision of teaching aids in the form of standard packages to 700
existing schools. The packages included, among other items, maps, directional
and drawing compasses, scales, etc.
(iv) Technical assistance
In order to ensure the success of training of upper-secondary teachers and
attain the project's qualitative objectives, technical assistance of 212
man-months of experts and 360 man-months of fellowships was envisaged under the
project. It also included technical assistance for the project unit, extension
of the architect's contract (24 man-months) and consultant services (36
man-months).
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
The studies for the construction of the 40 primary schools were financed
under the Fourth Project. There were three problems related to project design
for those schools. First, it appears that particular regional circumstances were
not reflected. The idea of introducing a workshop into the physical structure
of the schools, as innovative and interesting as it was, did not have the desired
effect. The workshops should have been first built on a trial basis in several
regions before being added to all 40 primary schools. The workshops are not yet
being used. Second, the area set aside for the infirmary in the schools would
have benefited from input from the Ministry of Health so that the facility could
fulfill its assigned function. Third, the selection of school sites did not take
into account water supply and electricity, which meant that some had to operate
without either.
Regarding the ENS, the requirements for teachers in the scientific
disciplines were correctly assessed. Although the physical works did not undergo
any modification, the targeted number of those to be trained (bacheliers) was
changed.   DEUG (two years of training) and licence (one year of training)
graduates were recruited with a view to making training one-year long in general.
The pedagogical impact of the teaching aids distributed is difficult to
evaluate. No study was undertaken in this regard. The contribution of the items
to the overall impact of the project is difficult to assess.
Moreover, the project was hampered by the fact that during project design
there was no identification of the profile of the project management team.



- 15 -
Project results
Despite the problems outlined above and the many changes made to the
original design, the project results are positive overall. However, the project
was less successful in view of the delays in execution caused by several factors
combined:   (i) flaws in project design; (ii) flaws in project management and
monitoring; and (iii) changes to the finality of project objectives, particularly
in relation to the ENS.
5.    Project Execution
Proiect achievements
Of the 40 primary schools planned under the project, 30 were completed,
seven are under way at different stages and three have been abandoned.
ENS construction is completed for the most part. However, some areas of
those schools have been used for purposes other than those envisaged under the
project. The Agadir ENS houses a 1,300-student high school and may be used for
higher education as a technology EST. The Marrakech ENS houses three entities:
(i) a lower secondary teacher training school, which provides one-year training
for DEUG graduates; (ii) preparatory classes for the grandes 6coles; and (iii)
the ENS offering two-year training for licence holders working toward their
agr6gation degree.  The Fez ENS has been turned over to higher education and
attached to the faculty of beience. The Casablanca ENS was converted into an ENS
for physical education.
The schools were equipped in accordance with the usual procedure. Prior
to the opening of calls for bids, a commission consisting of officials from the
Planning Department established specifications and sent the bidding documents for
approval and comments to the World Bank.
Procurement of the teaching aids for the 700 schools was carried out under
an agreement between the Ministry of Education and the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF). The agreement took the form of a reimbursab'le purchase by UNICEF
on behalf of the Ministry of Education. Under that agreement, UNICEF agreed to
purchase the teaching aids and have them transported on behalf of the Ministry
of Education.
The technical assistance envisaged under the project in the form of expert
services was little used (less than 50% of the amount initially set aside was
disbursed at July 31, 1989), whereas that for fellowships was not utilized at
all.
6.    Accounts Situation at July 31. 1989
Table 1 below shows the accounts situation at July 31, 1989 by category of
expenditure.   The delays in civil works and conversions of both the ENS and
certain primary schools partially explain the amounts still available at that



- 16 -
date and which should be fully disbursed before December 31, 1989.
Significantly, out of a loan agreement amount of US$50 million, 14.5 million have
been cancelled.
7.    Gaps between Desipn and Prolect Execution
(i)   Delays in construction of primary schools
Primary-school construction ran into significant delays, averaging more
than 28 months in relation to the contractual timetable. Table 2 in Part 2 of
this report shows the delay for each contract, calculated as the difference
between the notification date, date of provisional acceptance and execution
period given in the apecial conditions of contract.
The delays had repercussions from both the financial and pedagogical
standpoints. From the financial standpoint, they meant substantial increases in
construction costs, representing for the most part between 20% and 30% of the
total cost of the project.
From the pedagogical standpoint, the opportunity cost meant considerable
difficulties in satisfying school demand and overburdening of existing
classrooms.
(ii) Non-utilization of workshops and infirmaries in the primary schools
The workshops for manual training planned under the project are not being
used, owing primarily to a lack of supervision.   This has undermined the
innovative aspect of the project and limited its return. As a result, the return
on the schools was not maximized insofar as the students did not gain the manual
skills they could have acquired and which would have enabled them to continue
with vocational training should they drop out of school.
Regarding the non-utilization of the infirmary, the lack of any first-aid
equipment and the difficulties in replacing it prompted the users to allocate
infirmary premises to other uses (prayer room in some schools, for example).
(iii) Delays in ENS construction
There were significant delays in ENS construction, averaging 54 months in
relation to the special conditions of contract and considerably pushing up costs.
Contingencies and price escalation reached 38% of the total cost and 60% of the
original contract in the case of the Casablanca ENS, where major changes were
necessary in order to convert it for the training of physical education teachers.
(iv) ChanRes in ENS curricula and non-utilization of the Premises for the
purposes envisaged under the prolect
The ENS curricula were partially changed for several reasons.



- 17 -
Firstly, because the labor force had an availability of holders of licences
in sciences in general and mathematics in particular, it was decided to recruit
from the ENS.
Second, between the time of design of the ENS and their commissioning, the
educational targets underwent many modifications.
The changes in ENS curricula and orientation sparked significant changes
in the construction costs of the schools.
The changes in the schools' orientation and utilization of the ENS built
under the project may make it impossible to generate a return on major
investments. A cost-benefit analysis should be made before a definitive decision
is taken on the allocation of the schools.
(v)   Lack  of  coordination  between  distribution  of  equipment  and  school
construction
The significant construction delays hampered the timely distribution of
equipment. Nevertheless, there were very few delays in equipment delivery for
either the primary schools or the ENS. The equipment remained in storage under
unsatisfactory conditions (e.g. kitchen equipment for the ENS).
(vi, Conformity of equipment to needs
Greater participation by the officials of the schools receiving the
equipment in identifying requirements and their receipt and assessments of
conformity of the equipment provided by the firms would result in a better fit
of equipment to needs.
For the ENS, the equipment and construction of the dining halls and
kitchens far exceeded the real capacity of the schools. The base estimate of
1,500 meals per school was too high, especially since some dormitory wings were
eliminated.
At the present time the teaching aids provided to the 700 primary schools
are not being used and are being stored in some of the schools. The directors
of the schools and teachers should be made aware of the imnportance of using those
items.
(vii) Low enrollments
Total enrollments in the ENS are clearly below initial project projections,
owing in part to the fact that some of the new schools have not been
commissioned, others were realloated (Agadir and Fez), and three of the four ENS
are still housed in old quarters that should be used solely on a temporary basis.



- 18 -
(viii) Cancellation of part of the loan
The cancellation of US$ 14.5 million of the loan is limiting the scope of
the project and undermining a number of project activities.
8.    Partial Explanation of Gaps between Project Design and Achievements
The gaps described above are partially responsible for the difficulties
with the construction firms. Those that were awarded several contracts did not
have sufficient working capital to meet their commitments, (for example, a
company was awarded five of the 12 construction contracts for the primary
schools, which involved the construction of 15 of the 40 schools; only one single
contract was carried out within schedule).   Consequently,  the firms either
resorted to repetitive procurement or frequent shutdown of the work sites.
In order to prevent such a situation from recurring,  the number of
contracts awarded to a given firm should be limited and the administrative
documents that need to be provided when the bid is submitted must include the
financial statements for the last three fiscal years (balance sheet, operating
account, profits and loss statements, etc.). The exact means of such actions
should be studied in depth.
The two main factors nevertheless seem to have been as follows:
(i)   The project management unit was not prepared to manage a project of this
size and complexity.
Within the project unit, the motivation of the personnel responsible for
project monitoring was very limited and the number of manager-level staff very
insufficient. Throughout the construction period, outside of brief inspections
made by the project leader, no visits were made by the technicians (one
architect). The number of mid-level managers in the unit should be increased and
visits to the schools more frequent. In addition, physical means should be made
available to the unit in order to enhance project management (e.g. computer
equipment and vehicles).
Outside the work-site reports submitted at least once a month to the
project unit, monthly meetings should be held with the company heads and
directors of consulting firms to ensure that their work conforms to the extent
possible with the instructions from the Ministry.   Those meetings should be
attended by many officials and make it possible to monitor execution and deal
with contingencies.   Thus far, MOE has delegated project monitoring to the
consulting firms.
(ii)  Poor planning of items financed.  This would refer to the high cost of
primary-school construction and impossibility of using a standard design
throughout the country. The cost per classroom including workshop and infirmary
is prohibitive and does not reflect the country's level of development, resources
or needs.



- 19 -
9.    Performance of the Donor and Borrower
Performance of the borrower
The mere fact of having completed this project with the human and physical
means at the disposal of the project unit is proof of MOE's resolve to carry out
the project successfully. The project unit's weak management capacity prompted
MOE to reorganize it, raising it to division level with three offices: project
identification, accounting, and construction and equipment.   The division's
manager-level staff was also increased and it now has three inspectors, three
planning advisors, six accountants, one architect and one economist. This effort
could be supplemented by courses in project management, computer literacy and
seminars relating to seminars organized under future projects.
Performance of the donor
The World Bank's major weakness regarding the project was apparently rooted
in the little importance accorded to pinpointing the needs in physical and human
means that the borrower required for project management. Moreover, Bank missions
were not sufficiently timely fLr project monitoring.
10.   Results
Physical results of the proiect
Although the project is not yet completed, most of the schools planned have
been built. An evaluation of the design and quality of ths buildings as well as
the quality of equipment and maintenance is now under war,.
Quantitative results
For the project's 40 primary schools, the quantitative results in terms of
enrollments have already been exceeded.  Thus, the project Q. 'nned for 8,000 new
places and total enrollments in the schools built and it -peration for the
1988/89 school year was 9,199.
For the ENS, the quantitative results are much less enco it: ging. While the
project called for 3,840 new places for the training of matheiatics and science
teachers, enrollment for the 1988/89 school year was 1,467 and only a -mall
proportion of that total is majoring in mathematics and science.
Qualitative results
For primary education, the qualitative effects were to be generated by the
distribution and utilization of teaching aids in 700 schools and the impact of
the new primary schools in their regions on pushing up and satisfying the demand
for education.



- 20 -
For the ENS, it is clear that the requirements for teachers in all areas
need to be satisfied. It is however unfortunate that the major efforts targeted
under the project for the training of mathematics and science teachers did not
become a reality.
Overall evaluation
The project can be considered a success for the 40 primary schools and
provision of teaching aids to the 700 schools. For the ENS, although the project
deviated from its original objective, the physical achievements are still very
considerable and should therefore be used properly to help satisfy the dictates
of the new education policy followed by MOE since 1985.



- 21 -
Table 1
Accounts Situation at July 31. 1989
in US$
DISBURSED      AVAILABLE      ALLOCATED    UNALLOCATED
EXPENSE CATEGORY           AMOUNT          AMOUNT       AMOUNT          AMOUNT
Front end fee              738,916               0             0               0
Special account          4,897,474     -4,897,474              0    -4,897,474
Unallocated                      0        761,084              0         761,084
Construction            19,133,280        866,720              0        866,7zO
Equipment                7,790,264      6,609,735              0      6,609,735
Technical Assistance       863,075        -63,075              0        -63,075
Experts' services           81,596        118,404              0         118,404
Fellowships                      0        100,000              0         100,000
Pre-investment Studies           0      1,000,000              0      1,000,000
TOTAL                   33,504.605      4,495,394              0      4,495,394
Loan amount             50,000,000
Cancellation            12,000,000
Undisbursed
as of 7/31/89            4,495,394
Source: Monthly Disbursement Summary, Loan 2149-MOR, IBRD



- 23 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Consistent with Government needs and priorities, Bank lending in education and
training has evolved from reinforcement of general primary and secondary
education (First to Fifth Education Projects, FY65 to FY82) - with the exception
of direct support through small project components for manpower training in the
sectors of forestry (Second Education Project, FY71). and health, tourism and
rural development (Third Education Project, FY76) - to its current emphasis on
reinforcing employment-oriented skill training (First and Second Vocational
Training Projects, FY86 and FY87), and on introducing structural reforms to
improve the efficiency, financial viability, and employment orientation of
education at all levels (Education Sector Reform Program and Rural Primary
Education Project, FY86 and FY89).
B.    Proiect Timetable
Actual
Phases in Project Development    Planned Date  Date
1.  Identification                                   1978
2.  Preparation                                      1979
3. Appraisal Mission                                 May 80
4. Loan Negotiations                                 Mar 82
5.  Board Approval                                   May 82
6.  Loan Effectiveness                               26 Apr 83
7. Loan Closing                       31 Mar 88      31 Mar 89
8.  Loan Disb. Completion             30 Sep 88      26 Jan 91k1
a  Date of final payment and cancelation of undisbursed amount of US$ 0.6
million. The disbursement grace period was extended to allow for full
disbursement of all comnitted funds.



- 24 -
C. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(dollars in millions)
Year                   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Appraisal
Estimate             0.7   4.7   21.5  34.3  46.9  50.0    -         -     -
Actual                 -    2.5    8.7   8.7  17.2  25.0  29.1  34.5   34.9
Actual as %
of Estimate           1%    9Z    17%    -       -      -      -    -      -
Actual as 2 of
revised loan
amount'/                                   23Z   452   66%   71%   97%   98%
*/ Loan amount reduced to $38 million in November 1984 and to $35.5 million in
September 1989. US$ 0.6 million was canceled at final disbursement (January
1990), thus reducing loan amount to US$ 34.9 million.



- 25 -
D.        Project Costs and Financing (US$ million)
1.  Project Costs             Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Foreign                      Foreign
Local    Exchange  Total    Local   Exchange  Total
Category:                    Costs    Costs      Costs    Costs   Costs       Costs
Construction                  37.6       26.7     64.3    16.6        18.0     34.6
Equip. & Furn.                 2.6       15.4     18.0      2.5       12.0      14.5
Engineering Services           2.7        0.5      3.2      0.2        0.9       1.1
Experts' svs & Fellowships   1.6          6.7      8.3       -         0.1      0.1
Front end Fee                   -         0.7      0.7       -         0.7      0.7
Total              44.5       50.0     94.5      19.3       31.7    51.0
2. Project Financing
Original                      Actual
a. IBRD
Z of    Z of                  % of     % of
Category:                    US $ M      IBRD    Total    US $ M       IBRD     Total
Construction                   26.7       53%                 20.7       59%
Equip. & Furn.                 15.4       31Z                 12.5       36%
Engineering Services            0.5        1%                  0.9        3%
Experts' svs & Fellowships    6.7         13%                  0.1        0%
Front End Fee                   0.7        1%                  0.7        2%
Total IBRD                     50.0      100%      53%        34.9      100%      68%
b. Government                  44.5                47%        16.1                32%
TOTAL (1+2)         94.5                 1002       51.0               100%



- 26 -
E. Proiect Results
1. The 40 Rural Primary Schools
Estimates  at                           At  Closing
Indicators                                                  Appraisal                                Date
New places                                                      8,000                                   9,200
Staff  houses                                                      240                                    n.a.
Beneficiaries                                                  16,000                                  18,400
Z of  female  teachers                                         Not  specified                             23.5
% of  girls                                                    Not  specified                             38.3P!
2. The Four ENS's/CPR's
The following tables give data on numbers of student-teachers and their estimated
output in the ENS/CPR institutions nation-wide and within the project by specialty,
institution and overall:
(i)                         ENROLLMENT AND OUTPUT IN THE PJECTOS FOR ENS/CPR AND _ATIONUIDE
BY SPECIALIZATION - SCHOOL YEAR 1988/89
Enrollments                                 Output
Subject                                  ALL       Project      ALL        Project     ALl        Proj.     All      Proj.
ENS's    ENS's         CPR's     CPR's        ENS's     ENS's      CPR's   CPR's
Arabic                                     119         60         908       182        114          57        863        173
Islamic Instruction                         79         51         549       72          75          49        522        69
History/Geography                           99         60         438       25          94          57        416        24
Frinch                                     224                    850      106         213           -        622        63
Natural Science                             72         20         336       82          58          19        319         78
Physics/Chemistry                           69         19          28         -         66          18         27          -
Mathematics                                314        169         376       85         298         161        219         64
Physical Education                         262        262         589       150        110         110        275        143
Artistic Education                            -         -         220        19           -                   112         18
Female Culture                               -          -          60                    -                     29          -
English                                    207          -           -                  144           -          -
Computer Science                            87         47           -         -         83          45          -
Total                                    1,532        688       4,354      721       1,255         516      3,404       632
Against an average of 31.3% for rural girls in provinces where the schools are
located.



- 27 -
(ii)                         ENROLLMENTS OF STUDENT-TEACHERS BY LOCATION AND LEVEL
EnroLlmentr
Training for       Training for
Upper Secondary    Lower Secondary    Total              Comments
School Teachers        Teachers
(ENS)              (CPR)                  _
Marrakech                          141                     369         510
Casablerca                        320                      150        470
Agadir-                             40                     177         217      Water, electric. not connected
Fes                                187                     486        673       Handed over to higher educat.
Sub-total                         688                    1,182       1,870
Rabat                             492                      295         787
Tetouan                            125                     175        300
Meknes                            227                      347         574
oujdaMI'                                                   228         328       Lack of water and electricity
Sub-totaL                         844                    1,145      1,989
Grand TotaL                     1.532                    2,327      3,859
(lii)              ENROLLMENTS. OUTPUT All INTERNAL EFFICIENCY FOR THE PROJECT ENS's/CPR's
COPARED TO THE TOTALITY OF INSTITUTIONS TRAINING SECODMARY TEACHERS (1988/89)
Training Institutions                Enrollment of         Output          Ratio Graduates/
Student Teachers                      Student Teachers
ALL ENS's                                        1,532                 1,255                  81.9%
Total of ENS's of Fifth Educ. Proj.                501                   376                  75.0%
Proportion                                       32.7X                   30%
All CPR's                                        4,354                 3,404                  78.2%
Total of CPR's of Fifth Educ. Proj.                235                   206                  87.7%
Proportion                                        5.4X                  6.1X
Total All ENS's/CPR's                            5,886                4,659                   79.1%
TotaL ENS's/CPR's of Fifth Educ. Proj.              736                  582                  81.5%
Proportion                                        12.5X                12.7%
Source: Directorate of Planning, MOE.
V         Training is provided at present in the CPR near Agadir.



- 28 -
(iv) A weekly timetable for the students in the one-year post-graduate
course in the fields of biology-geology is given below:
Hours/week
Didactics
(theoretical and experimental)             4
Psycho-pedagogy                            4
Experimental pedagogy                       1
Practical training (class observation,
workshops, aptitude testing, etc.)          4
Audio-visual technic                        1
School legislation                         1
History of science                          1
Complementary training                     8
Research paper                             2
Computer science                            1.5
Language courses                           3
Source: Directorate of Planning, MOE and Director of ENS/CPR Casablanca.



- 29 -
Statistical Data on the Teacher-Trainers at ENS and CPR levels (for 1987/88)
ENS level
About 15Z are non-Moroccan teaching staff, but the proportion is higher for
French (72%), physical education (50%), biology (21%), administrative technic
(33%) and mechanics (25%). 0verall 10% are highly qualified but one can say that
53% are well qualified, the remaining being mostly assistant teachers and upper
secondary school teachers. For the foreign teaching corps, nearly 30% are highly
qualified but 60% can be considered well qualified, with the remaining being
assistant teachers and upper secondary school teachers.
CPR level
There is about 20% of foreign teaching staff, but the proportion is much
higher for French (57%), mathematics (30%) and physical education (51%). Overall
322 are highly qualified, but if one includes the teacher-trainers qualified for
upper secondary school teaching, the percentage of well qualified staff reaches
95%.  For the foreign teaching force, 68% are highly qualified and 97% well
qualified, whereas for the Moroccan staff these figures are respectively 16% and
nearly 95%.
It is interesting to note the statistics for the same year, concerning the
teaching force at the uRper secondary school level. Overall 82% of the teaching
force is fully qualified but for some subjects the percentage is much lower: for
physical education only 27% are qualified, for English 46%, and for drawing 57%.
For the production of teachers for physical education/sports in ENS/CPR
Casablanca, there are several training patterns: Bac + 4 years, DEUG (or in
Morocco CUES) + 2 years and licence + 1 year.  For all other specialties of
upper-secondary teachers, the scheme would be limited to licence + 1 year.



- 30 -
P.    Status of Covenants
Description of Covenants         Source                            Discussion
The Borrower shalls
1. i) not later than July 1,   Loan 8greement 3.02 (a) and
1983 or such later date as   March  2,  1983  cable  from
may be agreed with the Bank,    Bank to Government
employ educational experts
to assist the Borrower in
carrying out of part D
(1)(a) of the project.
ii) not later than July 1,                                        no technical assistance was
1983. or such later date as                                       u s ed    (experts    and
may be agreed with the Bank,                                      fellowships)   within   the
employ  educational  experts                                      project but assistance has
to a3qtst  the Borrower  in                                       been provided through Unicef
the  carrying  out  of  part                                      program in manual activities
D(1) (c) of the project                                           instructor training.
iii)  employ  as  and  when                                       contemplated pre-investment
needed,    consultants    to                                      studies which were suggested
assist in the carrying out                                        by  the  Education  Reform
of Part D(3) of the project;                                      Program  (Ln 2664-MOR) have
and                                                               been financed by the fourth
education project (Ln 1681-
MOR).
iv) cause the Project Unit
to employ a senior architect
and senior engineers by July
1, 1983, respectively, or by
such later dates as the Bank
may agree. to assist in the
carrying-out of part D(2) of
the Project.



- 31 -
Description of Covenants          Source                              Discussion
2. The Borrower shall,  by    Loan agreement 3.03 (a) and    A    national    fellowship
July 1, 1983 or such later    March  2.  1983  cable  from    program has been implemented
date as the Bank may agree,    Bank to Government                    by  sending   a  number  of
submit for approval a list                                           Moroccans  abroad   (France,
of candidates, including the                                         Belgium,    Canada,    etc.)
candidates' qualifications,                                          financed by bilateral aid.
study  programs,  place  of                                          However,  the   changes   in
study   and   duration   of                                          curriculum  (agreed  by  the
studies, for all fellowships                                         Bank) in the Higher Teacher
included  in  Part D(1)  (b)                                         Training   Colleges  reduced
and (c) of the Project.                                              practically  the  need  for
specific fellowships to nil.
Furthermore,   there   were
provisions for fellowsh4os
in   the   Education   Sec.or
Reform Program.
3.     The  Borrower  shall    Loan agreement 3.04 (a) and    Provided   for   in   Unicef
establish by Jan. 1, 1983,   March 2,1983 cable from Bank    contract for the procurement
or such  later date  as the    to Government                         of educational materials.
Bank may agree, a system
satisfactory to the Bank for
the distribution, storage
and   maintenance   of   the
educational   teaching   and
learning aids included in
Part B of the project.
4.     The  Borrower  shall    Loan Agreement 3.05 (a) and    TA  was  received  for  the
submit  to  the  Bank  for    march  2,  1983  cable  from    purpose    from    various
approval    t h e    j ob    Bank to Government                      bilateral aid programs.
descriptions for the teacher
training    staff    to    be
assigned  to the  institutes
included in part C of the
Project and shall recruit by
July 1, 1983. or such later
date as the Bank may agree,
said staff on the basis of
the approved job
descriptions.



- 32 -
Description of Covenants         Source                            Discussion
5.     The  Borrower  shall   Loan agreement 3.05 (b)             The programs  (BAC+4 years)
submit  to  the  Bank  for                                        were found satisfactory by
review and comment by Sept.                                       WB.    The  programs  now  in
1, 1984, or such later date                                       operation (licence +1 year)
as the Bank may agree the                                         were    also    considered
draft    teacher    training                                      appropriate    by    WB.
programs referred to in part                                      Technical assistance to be
D(1) (a) of the Project.                                          financed  by  the  project
(whether covering expertise
or fellowships) have been
financed    instead    by
bilateral aid.
6.  The Borrower shall, by   Loan agreement 3.05 (c)
July 1, 1983. or such later
date as the Bank may agree.
submit to the Bank for
approval the draft tender
documents for the equipment
to be procured for the
institutes included in Part
C of the Project.
7.  The Borrower shall:  a)   Loan agreement Section 4.03
have the accounts referred
to in Section 4.02 for each
fiscal year audited by the
Borrower's    Ministry
responsible for finance; (b)
furnish to the Bank, as soon
as available but in no case
not later than six months
after the end of each year
(i) certified copies of the
Piu accounts for such year
as  so audited;    (ii)  the
report of such audit by such
Ministry.



- 33 -
G.       Use of Bank Resourcee
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks)
Stage of cycle
Proiect Cycle               FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89 Total
To Appraisal Departure    68.4                                                               68.4
Appraisal through
Board Approval                    28.3  39.0                                                 67.3
Board Approval
through Effectiveness                    12.7                                                12.7
Supervision    .-                        -      10.4   7.1   2.2   1.5   5.2   3.2   6.8  36.5
TOTAL                       68.4  28.3  51.7  10.4   7.1   2.2   1.5   5.2   3.2   6.8 184.9



- 34 -
3. BANK MISSIONS
Stagm of             M_w         N. of        5lW         spedalisUon       Perfonnance
(CYie               Year          Staff       Wee__                        Rating
Identification
to appraisal         1/79        3 )TE
10/79       3 )          15          CH, LO
Sub-total                           15
Appraisal through
Board Presentation
1/80        2 )                      AC, TE
5/80        5 )          53.3        AC, TE, GE, EC
1/81        2 )                      AC, GE
5/81        2 )          28.3        GE, PL
Sub-total                          81.6
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
12/82       3            51.7        TE, EC           2 TM
Sub-total                          51.7
Supervision
3/83        4 )                      TE, EC, GE        2 TM
7/83        3)           10          AC, GE, CH        2 TM
4/84        3)                       AC, EC, PL       2 TM
6/84        2 )          6.3         AC, PL            2
10/84       3)                       EC, PL, TE       2 TM
5/85        3            2.2         EC, PL, TE        2 TM
2/86        2)                       TE
11/86       2 )          1.5         GE, TE
3-4/87      3 )                      CH, TE, PL
11/88       1 )          5.2         PL
11/88       1            3.8         PL
Sub-total                  29.0
Grand total               178.5
Key to symbols:
EC:  Economist                 TE:   Technical Educator
GE:  General Educator          AC:   Architect
PL:  Planner                   LO:   Loan Officer
CH: Division Chief or Deputy Chief
2: Moderate Problems T: Technical Problems M: Management Problems



- 35 -
Annex I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(ORIGINAL AND ACTUAL)
1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS    .....
AND BID DOCUMENTS
CONSTRUCTION
BIDDING PROCESS                      =
CONSTRUCTION        PS
PERIOD                                                   +++++ +++++ ++++
TT                    .    .....    .....    ..
FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT      .....
LIST AND BID DOCUMENTS            ---
FURNTITURE &          PS
EQUIPMENT
BIDDING                                                           _
PROCESS               TT                        ...
FURNITURE &           PS                       ..... ..... ..
EQUIPMENT
FACTORY/DELIVERY
TT.....
===   =++ *+++++
TECHNICAL       Fellowship              ..... ..... ....
ASSISTANCE      Experts                 ..... .....
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
.........  ..OriginaL Activities as Planned in SAR.          PS:  Primary Schools
========    Actual Main Activities                          TT:  Teacher Training College
+++++++++    Actual Minor Activities



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Evolution of the Exchange Rate
At Appraisal             04-1982   US$ 1 - DH 5.30
Period Average               1981   US$ 1 - DH 5.12
1982   US$ 1 - DH 5.98
1983  US$ 1 - DH 7.11
1984  US$ 1 - DH 8.79
1985  US$ 1 - DH 9.96
1986  US$ 1 - DH 9.08
1987  US$ 1 - DH 8.32
1988  US$ 1 - DH 8.16
1989  US$ 1 - DH 8.50



