Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3293-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
April 26, 1982
This doeument has a restricted distiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World- Bank authorizatiow-



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1 = DH5.30
DH1 = US$0.19
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MOE:               Ministry of Education
MOF:               Ministry of Finance
MOP:               Ministry of Planning
OFPPT:             Office of Vocational Training and Employment
(Office de la Formation Professionnelle et
Promotion du Travail)
PIU:               Project Implementation Unit
;



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:            US$50.0 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:             Seventeen years including four years of grace, at an
interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description;       The proposed project is designed to: (a) improve teaching
effectiveness at the primary level; (b) assist the
Government in meeting more effectively the basic educational
needs of rural children; and (c) improve the quality of
science and mathematics teaching at the senior secondary
level. The project would finance the following components:
(i) the provision of learning aids for 700 existing primary
schools; (ii) the construction and equipping of 40 rural
primary schools and related technical assistance; (iii) the
development of programs and of a cadre of qualified staff
for training senior secondary mathematics and science
teachers, through technical assistance and the construction
and equipping of 4 teacher training institutes; and (iv)
technical assistance for project implementation and for the
preparation of pre-investment studies.
The immediate benefits from the project would be: the
provision of basic learning aids to about 450,000 primary
school students; the addition of approximately 8,000 primary
school places in areas poorly served by educational
facilities; the creation of a competent cadre of Moroccan
teacher trainers and the development of science and
mathematics training programs; and the training of
approximately 1,850 additional senior secondary teachers of
mathematics and science per year. However, the long-term
benefits expected from the project are much rore
substantial. The project will permit further dissemination
of a new approach for the delivery of primary education to
rural areas, introducing a more practical and relevant
curriculum and providing teacher housing to encourage
assignment of teachers to remote areas. The provision of
learning aids would reinforce on-going efforts to improve
the effectiveness of teaching. The training of an increased
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
number of senior secondary teachers in mathematics and
science will permit the expansion and improvement of the
quality of mathematics and science teaching, reinforcing the
shift away from a literary bias towards scientific studies
in secondary education, while at the same time reducing
reliance on costly expatriate teachers. Project risks
relate (a) to the adequate staffing of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to ensure timely and efficient
project implementation as well as (b) to the importance of
developing appropriate teacher training programs and of
recruiting a qualified cadre of teacher training staff.
Assurances were obtained that the PIU will strengthen and
maintain its current professional staff throughout project
implementation. Technical assistance will be financed under
the project to assist the Government in training teacher
training staff and developing curricula, and the final
curricula and staffing plans will be submitted to the Bank
for approval.
Estimated Cost                         Local        Foreign    Total
-------- (usc Millions) -
Construction, equipment
furniture and TA:
40 primary schools;            9.3           7.4        16.7
4 senior secondary
teachers' institutes          21.4          21.3        42.7
Teaching aids:
700 primary schools            0.4           3.4         3.8
Technical assistance
for the Project
Implementation Unit            0.1           0.4         0.5
Preinvestment
studies                        0.5           2.3         2.8
Baseline cost                    31.7          34.8        66.5
Contingencies:
Physical                       3.1           3.2         6.3
Price                          9.7          11.3        21.0
Total Project Cost               44.5          49.3        93.8
Front-end fee on Bank loan        -             0.7         0.7
Total project
financing needs             44.5          50.0        94.5



- iii -
Financing Plan                         Local        Foreign    Total
-------- (US$ Millions) ----
Bank loan                          -           50.0        50.0
Government                       44.5            -         44.5
Total                         44.5          50.0        94.5
Estimated Disbursements    FY83        FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88
(US$ Million)
Annual                   2.2     10.9      14.8      12.7       8.4       1.0
Cumulative               2.2     13.1      27.9      40.6      49.0     50.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3693a-MOR, dated April 20, 1982.
.



9



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$50.0 million, to assist in
financing a Fifth Education Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 1.5% on the Bank loan, would be repaid over a period of
17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco. Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A mission to review Morocco's Five
Year Plan (1981-85) and development prospects was in the field in December
1981. Country and Economic Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed
with natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential both
in irrigated and rainfed areas. The Atlantic and the Mediterranean
coastlines offer considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's
largest and most easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the
phosphate sector a key export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore,
manganese, lead and zinc are also exported, but in much smaller amounts.
Coal and hydropower plants satisfy only a small part of the countryts energy
requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil. Morocco has
however uranium and oil shale resources which it plans to exploit. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco. GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. Growth accelerated somewhat under
the 1968-72 development plan as the economy derived substantial momentum
from exports. However, a relatively weak savings effort and a small
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report No.
P-3223-MOR of March 3, 1982 on a proposed Oil Shale Engineering Project.



-2-
externally financed resource gap resulted in only a slow rise in the share
of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with
no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor
force was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural
sector, and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise
exports, with phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  The
1973-77 Development Plan aimed at an acceleration of economic growth, as
well as an improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, the
original plan strategy included two key elements: an intensified savings
effort and the development of exports. However, in 1974, with the sudden
jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled.
As a result of this windfall, the value of merchandise exports doubled and
budgetary receipts rose by 70% between 1973 and 1974. Although the
petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the
balance of payments remained in surplus. The plan's concern for exports and
savings lost some of its urgency, and the Government launched a massive
public investment program which brought about a sharp acceleration in the
rate of growth of the economy and a considerable increase in demand for
imported goods and services, whose share in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to
39% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived; as early as mid-1975,
phosphate exports started falling in both volume and value, and prices
continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as for
tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession and restrictions imposed by the EEC. Agricultural production and
exports entered a period of prolonged stagnation, and Morocco turned from a
net exporter to a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these
factors, the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in
constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, was only 1% a year in
1973-77.
7.       Stimulated by the high investment level, a high GDP growth rate of
7.3% a year was achieved during the 1973-77 plan period. This growth was
led by the expansion of the construction and service sectors. The pattern
of investment, however, favored economic and social infrastructure more than
the productive sectors. In addition, public investments in industry,
agriculture and transport tended to be capital intensive and to emphasize
import substitution.
8.       Accelerated investment and growing public expenditures created
strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the Government budget.
While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early 1970s to 32% in
1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from 13% of GDP in 1972 to 21% of
GDP in 1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to 10-11% in



-3-
1976-77. The large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose to an
unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance the
gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which
led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service burden. By the
end of 1977, external debt outstanding was close to 40% of GDP. The debt
service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to
10.7% in 1977, and 18.5% in 1978.
9.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and
of the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 23% of
GDP in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues.
Total budgetary outlays rose from 20% of GDP in 1972 to nearly 42% in 1977,
in response to a number of pressures. These included not only the large
scale public investment launched under the plan, but also the rapid increase
in defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western Sahara,
and the acceleration of current expenditure for social programs
(particularly education). As a result, the Government's overall budget
deficit increased sharply, reaching peaks of 17 and 18% of GDP in 1976 and
1977. The expansionary monetary and fiscal policies pursued during the
period led to some acceleration of domestic inflation, but excess demand was
largely allowed to spill over into the external sector.
Recent Developments
10.      In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import
levels. In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was
cut back by nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary
expenditure held down to about 13% (or less than 3% in real terms). These
measures of fiscal restraint were combined with tight credit policies and
stringent import controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined
to about 12% of GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978.
Since then, however, the stabilization program encountered a number of
obstacles, including poor harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise
in interest on the commercial debt. In addition, internal pressures led to
some relaxation of the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978.
Although the economy continued to make slow progress toward equilibrium, by
1980 both fiscal and external imbalances were still substantial. The
resource gap (in current prices) remained at about 10% of GDP and the ratio
of the overall budget deficit to GDP at about 11%.
11.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period
was achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments,
which dropped from 22% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on
the public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter



tripled in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized
staple food and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in
import costs for these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of
current expenditure accelerated to 16% in 1979 and 22% in 1980.
12.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction
in capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill (from less than $400
million in 1977 to $1 billion in 1980) and a rise in external debt interest
payments by about $350 million between 1977 and 1980, the current account
deficit was reduced from $1.8 billion, or 18% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4
billion, or 8% of GDP, in 1980. The growth of external borrowing slowed
considerably during the period. However, the absolute level of gross
external capital requirements rose because of growing amortization payments
on mediumrterm commercial credits contracted earlier and the rise in the
interest rate on these credits in 1980 (paragraph 21).
13.      The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity in 1978-80. Annual
GDP growth dropped to 4% in 1978-80. The adverse impact of the
stabilization program on employment has probably been substantial in
contrast with the rapid rate of employment creation during 1973-77. On the
whole, the demand management policies followed since 1978 have had a high
cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been only partly
successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.   These results
brought out the urgent need to address adequately the long-term structural
weaknesses which are at the root of the continuing financial imbalances in
the Moroccan economy, and which must be corrected if an acceptable rate of
economic growth is to be achieved over the medium term without unsustainable
external deficits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Projectionsl/ of the likely outcome of the continuation of past
policies without concerted effort to implement major structural reforms
suggest that Morocco would be faced with a prolonged period of slow growth,
rising unemployment and continued large external imbalances which would keep
the country in considerable dependence on external borrowing and could
jeopardize its creditworthiness. To forestall such a deterioration, the
Government adopted a strategy in the development plan for 1981-85 which aims
at narrowing the external resource gap while accelerating growth and
spreading the benefits of growth more widely. The main objectives are to
1/ For details on these Bank projections, see Morocco - Basic Economic
Report, December 30, 1980 (No. 3289-MOR), Chapter III.



achieve a significant increase in domestic savings and exports, a reduction in
the elasticity of imports with respect to GDP, and a rise in productivity and
the employment rate. The Plan's projections show that, if achieved, such
changes would permit a gradual acceleration of annual GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.,
somewhat higher than Bank projections, in 1981-85, accompanied by a reduction
of the resource gap to about 7% in 1985.
15.      The containment of imports would result in part from the substitution
of imports of food products (cereals, sugar, vegetable oil, meat and dairy
products) to be brought about by an acceleration of the rate of growth of
agricultural production. This will require a wide range of institutional
reforms in addition to a review of prices of certain inputs and outputs, and a
greater allocation of resources to rainfed areas and to projects with high
rates of return. The Government also intends to follow a determined policy in
1981-85 in the area of energy conservation, including in particular
maintaining domestic energy prices at high levels, and making the necessary
investment allocations to increase energy production from local sources.
16.      An essential role in the achievement of the Plan's objectives will
have to be played by export promotion aimed at exploiting Morocco's
comparative advantage as regards phosphates and phosphate derivatives as well
as the current favorable export prospects for manufactured goods, agricultural
products and tourism. Exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to
rise at 8.5% p.a. in real terms over 1981-85. While feasible, such a growth
rate would require implementation of the supporting investments and incentives
policies.
17.      Narrowing the resource gap while maintaining at the same time high
investment levels would require an increase in domestic savings as well as
rationalization of the pattern and content of investment. A vigorous recovery
in domestic savings, which would rise from 11.5% of GDP in 1980 to 16% by
1985, would make it possible to narrow gradually the resource gap from about
10% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1985. Such a rise in the domestic savings rate
would exceed the performance in 1973-77 when savings averaged 14% of GDP. It
would demand intensive efforts to increase public savings (through an increase
in budgetary savings and an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises) and to stimulate private savings (through a revision of interest
rates and improvements in financial intermediation).
18.      Given the feasible level of investment, the future rate of growth of
the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment as well as institutional reforms. Under the Plan,
the Government will start fewer large capital-intensive projects and pay
particular attention to the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.
Priority is given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive
and which use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition,
particular attention will be paid by the Government to manpower planning and
to the employment effect of investments in order to ensure that unemployment
does not rise.



-6-
Social Development
19.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970s, while disparities continued to grow,
household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased, both significantly.
More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally elected
assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems and
greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have been
at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than half current
outlays. However, social indicators still appear to be at low levels in
Morocco. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and the new strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes
rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet
basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local comnunities in providing
basic needs, particularly for sites and services for low cost housing, water
supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot be
expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would help
meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of
social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
20.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provided for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period, an amount subsequently increased to SDR 956
million ($1.2 billion). However, as Morocco did not satisfy performance
criteria at the end of July 1981, its purchases under the EFF were suspended.
The Government has requested that the EFF be replaced by a one-year standby
arrangement for SDR 281 million ($330 million and a purchase under the
Compensatory Financing Facility (cereals option) for SDR 236 million ($278
million).
21.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $7.1 billion (disbursed only) by December 1980. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.57 billion in 1980. Debt service amounted to $800
million in 1979 and $1.2 billion in 1980 (22% and about 28%, respectively, of
total exports of goods and services). The debt service rose considerably in
1980 due mainly to the steep rise in interest on commercial credits. As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to
average $1.8 billion annually in the early 1980s. Because of the growing



burden of debt service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and
selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government
will have to continue this policy over the next few years. Limits on
commercial borrowing are to be incorporated in the framework of the standby
arrangement with the IMF, and efforts should be continued to seek loans on
softer terms.
22.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1376 million in 1978. Since then,
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). Major sources
of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank
Group. At the end of 1980, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was 7%. The share of the Bank Group in
debt service was 21% in 1976 and declined to 15% in 1977, and 6% in 1980. By
1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in debt service are
projected at about 10% and 11% respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
23.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 55 projects,
financing a total of $1,915.6 million (net of cancellations), of which
$1,084.5 million has been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits,
totalling $50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third
Window loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in
March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $43.8 million ($17.5 million
after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In
some cases delays in project implementation have been caused by management
problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall performance in project
execution has been improving and is satisfactory.
24.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28% and 26%, respectively
of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16%), tourism
(9%), education (8%), roads (6%), energy (4%) and urban development (3%).
While limited as regards the transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group
gross disbursements amounted to 2.2% of total fixed investment during the
1973-77 Plan period), the main objectives of Bank lending in previous years
were to foster and strengthen development institutions, provide technical
assistance, especially for project preparation, and increase productive
capacity, in order to improve the balance of payments.
25.      While these objectives remain, in recent years Bank lending has
increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives: to
promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to reduce
imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the



- 8 -
delivery of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and
increase access by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and
improve income distribution.
26.      Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly
addresses these objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The
Loukkos project, approved in May 1980, and the recently approved Middle
Atlas and Forestry projects extend support of these objectives to less
favorably endowed regions and finance investments for agricultural
development, erosion control, forestry rehabilitation and replanting and
livestock. They should have a significant poverty impact and address major
issues in developing Morocco's relatively densely populated but poorly
endowed imountainous regions. Continued Bank support of rainfed agriculture
is expected to be provided through an integrated rural development project
in the Khemisset province, which is under preparation. A fourth line of
credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has helped provide
credit to small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is under
preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from a
Bank-supported project for vegetable marketing and production, as well as
from a project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency of the
coastal fishing industry. Projects are also under preparation for research
and extension, for irrigation rehabilitation, and for development of small-
and medium-scale irrigation.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently,
job creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
tourism. A ninth line of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le
D4veloppement Economique (BNDE), incorporating a pilot component for
export-oriented industries, as well as a second line of credit for small
scale industries with an emphasis on job creation were approved by the Board
in early FY1982. A project focussing on the development of
electro-mechanical industries is being prepared. A fourth line of credit to
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism projects was approved in
FY1981 by the Executive Directors, in a sector which has contributed a
substantial share of Morocco's foreign exchange earnings and provided
significant employment. A project to increase mineral export earnings and
raise the incomes of small-scale miners in Southeastern Morocco, a region
largely bypassed by previous development efforts, was recently approved by
the Board.
28.      Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have
concentrated on improving the efficiency of existing investments and
extending services to rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban
development project was approved by the Board in FY1981, which would
continue to support the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic
services and employment to low-income urban families. A third highway
project approved in FY1980 supported the Government's road maintenance



- 9 -
efforts and a fourth project now being prepared would continue support for
maintenance and improve rural access roads. A loan for village
electrification approved in FY1979 is helping bring power to over a hundred
small towns and villages. A third water supply project, recently approved,
will provide access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas, as
well as expand a pilot component initiated under the second project to
provide credit for house connections to low income urban families. In
addition, a project to strengthen the capacity of local communities to
prepare and implement their own development programs and provide financing
for such programs through the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being
prepared. It will not only help to widen the distribution of infrastructure
and services but will also support the Government's policy of encouraging
administrative decentralization and local participation.
29.      Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level
technical education and teacher training, attention has also been given to
expanding basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater
orientation in primary schooling towards practical training. The
Government's recent policy supporting primary health care would be tested
through a project currently being prepared as a first phase in a nationwide
program to reorganize medical and paramedical training, health education,
nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning services, especially
in rural areas.
30.      In order to aim at reducing the impact of the oil import burden on
the Moroccan economy, a project was approved in April 1980 to contribute to
the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum resources, and an engineering project to study the viability
of exploring the country's oil shale resources was approved in March 1982.
Additional projects for development of possible gas resources as well as
coal and hydropower, are under consideration.
31.      Morocco's disbursement performance continues to lag behind that of
other countries in the region. The disbursement shortfall is most acute for
a few projects in new sectors, due mainly to institutional or project
management problems. These cases are being closely mrnitored and
implementation schedules have been established, specifying critical actions,
in agreement with the Government. In the case of some agricultural
projects, performance was affected by the 1980-81 drought but is expected to
improve with recovery of the sector. In the case of certain projects,
notably in agriculture, water supply and highways, implementing agencies
have been slow in submitting disbursement requests to the Ministry of
Finance for transmittal to the Bank. We have drawn the Government's
attention to the need to resolve this problem. Finally, it appears possible
that the rate of disbursement over the last few months may have been
affected by the appreciation of the dollar against other currencies.



- 10 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
32.      The Government's principal objectives as regards education and
training and reflected in the current Five Year Plan (1981-1985) are:
expansion of enrollments, wmroccanization of the teaching force, increased
emphasis on the teaching of science, technology and practical skills and
arabization of the curriculum. From a slow start after independence (as
reflected in adult literacy rates still only 28%), considerable progress has
been made towards these objectives in quantitative terms.  During 1973 -
1980, primary and secondary school enrollments grew by an average of 6.4%
and 10.6% per year, respectively, and university enrollments more than
tripled.  Recruitment of teachers has also expanded and the teaching force
is now entirely Moroccan through the junior secondary level, though
expatriates are still relied on for science, mathematics and technical
teaching at the senior secondary and post-secondary levels. New curricula
for science, mathematics and applied technology have been developed (see
para. 37). Training of higher and middle level technicians has been
expanded, although training has lagged for semi-skilled workers.
Arabization of the curriculum has been slow but is now virtually complete at
the primary level.
Sector Issues.
33.      The emphasis on the quantitative expansion of the education system
has, however, been to the detriment of the quality of learning offered. The
system suffers from serious internal and external inefficiencies as well as
from continuing disparities in access to education between boys and girls,
urban and rural areas, and among geographical regions. The Government is
aware of the shortcomings of the education system; a national commission is
drawing up a new charter for education and training which will set out
long-term objectives and policy guidelines for addressing these issues.
34.      Efficiency.  High drop-out and repeater rates plague the education
system at all levels, adding significantly to the unit costs of education.
This situation stems in part from inappropriate student admissions and
promotion criteria, outdated curricula and a lack of classroom equipment,
basic teaching materials and textbooks. In addition, the Government has met
quantitative requirements for teachers by shortening teacher training
programs and by recruitment based on academic credentials without
pedagogical training. The resulting deterioration in the quality of the
teaching force is a major cause of the internal inefficiency of the
education system. Moreover, a literary and rote learning bias continues to
predominate throughout the education system, hampering Morocco's ability to
provide the trained manpower, particularly in applied science and
technology, needed for its economic development and prolonging reliance on
expatriate technicians. For example, 77% of university students are
enrolled in law and the humanities, and only 23% in science, medicine and
engineering. Lack of detailed employment data and analysis have prevented
the definition of a manpower policy which could underpin an education and
training strategy, and there is an increasing risk of creating a pool of



- 11 -
"educated unemployed", while manpower shortages remain in critical areas.
Technical training is also dispersed among several ministries and lacks an
effective mechanism for coordination and systematic planning.
35.      Equity.  The expansion of educational coverage has not been evenly
distributed; primary school enrollment rates in rural areas are less than
half those in urban areas, and in the sparsely populated south and east this
proportion drops to about one-third.  Moreover, girls represent about 44% of
urban enrollments but only 23% of rural enrollments (initially 28% dropping
to 17% in the fifth year), so that rural women are largely bypassed by the
educational system. The differentials in enrollments are partly a result of
disparities in educational infrastructure and partly a result of varying
demand for educational services. Among the factors creating these
variations are: dispersion of rural population and consequent long distances
to schools (affecting most significantly girls' participation); lack of
housing for teachers in rural areas (again a more serious constraint for
women teachers who could encourage girls' attendance); and the limited
relevance of the traditional curriculum to rural life, reinforcing existing
socio-cultural biases against schooling, especially for girls.
Socio-cultural factors have also influenced the provision of formal
vocational training which has been virtually limited to boys, to urban
areas, and to students who have completed at least junior secondary school.
Although basic education is now given higher priority by the Government,
past investments have favoured senior secondary and post-secondary education
and training.
36.      Education Finance.  Education absorbs a large proportion of
Government expenditures (about 20% of total public outlays and 7% of GDP in
1980), and a particularly high proportion (26%) of the recurrent budget. A
large part of these recurrent expenditures is absorbed by student stipends
at the post-secondary level, leaving insufficient funds for teacher
upgrading, the provision of teaching materials, textbooks and basic learning
aids or the renovation of existing infrastructure, all essential to
improving the quality of schooling. In view of expected budgetary
constraints, the Government may have to reduce its ambitious enrollment
targets and construction program, and define priority target groups.
Therefore, Government investments would be limited to essential projects
related to increasing the efficiency of the educational system. These
include the ongoing and proposed Bank-financed projects. Improved
allocation of recurrent expenditures could be achieved through decreases in
student stipends and through increasing beneficiaries' participation in the
costs of education, currently provided free of charge to all students.
Government Strategy.
37.      Curriculum relevance.  There has recently been a strong effort to
reorient the curriculum at all levels towards practical skills, mathematics
and applied science. A primary curriculum offering manual skills training
is being field-tested in 120 rural primary schools (with the assistance of



- 12 -
UNICEF) as well as in the 47 rural primary schools financed under the Third
Education Project (Ln. 1220-T-MOR) and will be further disseminated under
the proposed fifth project. A new subject "Introduction to Technology" has
been introduced into junior secondary education (also under the Third
Project), while the Fourth Project (Ln. 1681-MOR) will increase enrollments
in technical secondary and post-secondary education by almost 60%. Senior
secondary enrollments have shifted from the arts to the mathematics/science
option (55%) and the opening of four new science faculties has almost
quadrupled the number of university science students. Greater emphasis is
also being given to vocational training, whose capacity is expected to
triple over the Plan Period.
38.      Teacher Effectiveness.  The Government has recognized the problems
stemming from accelerated teacher recruitment and has given high priority to
the improvement of teaching methods through expanded teacher training and
upgrading programs. This is particularly true as concerns technical
education as well as science and mathematics teaching, in order to reinforce
the desired reorientation of the curriculum towards those subjects and
permit the replacement of expatriate teachers. These objectives are
supported under the Third, Fourth and proposed Fifth Projects. The
Government is also planning to reinforce teaching effectiveness through the
distribution of basic learning aids and equipment to primary schools, of
which the first phase would be financed under the proposed project.
39.      Basic Education.  More equitable access to primary education,
particularly in rural areas, is an important objective under the proposed
Plan and will be facilitated by a national school mapping exercise. Some of
the factors hindering effective delivery of education to disadvantaged
groups and areas are being addressed through programs to provide primary
schools with teacher housing (as an incentive for teacher recruitment), more
relevant curricula and school canteens, such as those financed under the
Third and proposed Fifth Projects. In addition, Morocco's capacity for
pedagogical reasearch, evaluation and planning must be strengthened so that
some of the factors contributing to the low internal efficiency of the
education system and the varying demand for education, especially among
girls, can be analyzed and remedial measures recommended.
40.      Manpower Planning.  The Ministry of Planning is undertaking a
manpower planning study (financed under the Third Project) which will help
adapt the Government's education and training strategy to meet identified
employment needs and to promote improved coordination both among training
activities and with the formal education system. Further studies will be
needed to examine in greater detail particular training needs as well as to
develop and test new approaches to training, with particular emphasis on
reaching rural areas and unskilled workers.
41.      Cost-effectiveness.  The Government has recognized the need to
develop innovative and less costly ways of satisfying the growing demand for
education, in order to avoid undue strain on overall budgetary resources.
Plans are underway to experiment with double shifts at the primary level,



- 13 -
thus improving the use of existing educational facilities and with new
construction norms and decentralized procedures, such as increasing the
participation of local communities, all of which could lower unit costs
significantly for primary education. The Government is also considering
establishing criteria for the targetting of student stipends and of free
education at the university level in an effort to restructure and reduce
recurrent expenditures on education. Both the Bank and the IMF are
encouraging the Government to pursue these efforts to improve the
cost-effectiveness of the education system as part of an ongoing dialogue on
overall economic management.
Sector Organization
42.      The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for formal education
which includes primary, junior secondary, general and technical, senior
secondary and post-secondary education (universities, technical training
colleges and teacher training). Administrative problems under the First
Education Credit (78-MOR, approved in 1965) led to the creation of a
separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry which has
handled construction and procurement for the Bank-financed projects since
1971. The Government's overall policy of increased administrative
decentralization will give greater decision-making power to the provincial
delegations of the MOE, especially as regards school construction and
equipment, although curriculum development, production of teaching materials
and teacher training will remain under the control of the central Ministry.
43.      The Ministry of Planning (MOP) oversees the planning and
co-ordination of vocational and technical training outside the formal
education system, in conjunction with the Inter-Ministerial Commission on
Vocational Training and Employment. While many Government ministries have
separate institutes for training specialized staff, most industrial training
is carried out by the Office of Vocational Training and Employment (Office
de la Formation Professionnelle et Promotion du Travail - OFPPT) with
administrative and financial autonomy under the umbrella of the MOP.
Coordination among the various training programs remains relatively
ineffective.
Bank Experience
44.      Previous Bank loans have focussed on; support for general secondary
education (Cr. 78-MOR); strengthening of teacher training and support for
scientific and technical secondary education (Cr. 266-MOR); increasing
access to rural primary schooling and developing lower secondary education,
as well as support for agricultural training and manpower planning (Ln.
1220T MOR); and expanding secondary and post-secondary technical education
including related teacher training (Ln. 1681 MOR). The first two projects
were completed satisfactorily (Project Completion Reports of May, 1976 and
June, 1981 respectively) although management problems resulted in
substantial implementation delays. While these problems were alleviated
following the creation of the separate PIU under the Second Project,



- 14 -
staffing difficulties for the PIU and budgetary constraints continued to
delay the implementation of the Third Project, especially the technical
assistance components. In addition, project components under the Ministries
of Health and Tourism were seriously behind schedule due to managenent
problems in these Ministries and had to be reduced in scope. Following
reinforcement of the PIU and increased attention to processing of contracts
and disbursement requests by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), project
implenentation has now accelerated. The Fourth Project approved in April
1979 is also well underway, and contracts have been signed for all project
components, although disbursements are lagging. A sector Survey was carried
out by the Bank in October, 1981 with the assistance of UNESCO to review the
Government's overall education and training strategy and to explore areas of
future collaboration. The survey report is now being prepared. Feasibility
studies for priority items and pre-investment designs for future project
components identified as a result of the sector survey would be financed
under the proposed project.
45.      Bank experience in implementing the two completed projects, as well
as the two ongoing projects, has indicated the need to: (a) ensure as
complete a preparation of project components as possible; (b) supervise the
technical assistance components closely from the very outset of project
implementation; (c) ensure that the PIU maintains an adequate and qualified
staff; and (d) review constantly progress in processing of contract
approvals and disbursement applications by the MOF to forestall delays.
Preparation of the proposed project was at a very advanced stage by the time
of negotiations, and the above mentioned issues will be carefully monitored
throughout the implenentation of the proposed Fifth Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Background
46.      The proposed project would continue the Bank's support for the
reorientation of the Moroccan education system to give greater emphasis to
practical skills and to science, mathematics and applied technology in order
to prepare school leavers more adequately for employment and to contribute
to the country's socio-economic development efforts. The project would also
seek to reduce educational wastage by increasing primary school teacher
effectiveness through the distribution of basic learning aids to primary
schools, supporting the introduction of more relevant curricula at the
primary level and by improving the training of teachers. Finally, it would
increase access to basic education in disadvantaged rural areas.
47.      The project was identified in March 1979 and prepared by the
Moroccan Government, with preliminary engineering designs for the proposed
facilities financed under the Fourth Education Project. It was appraised in
May, 1980 and final agreement was reached on project composition and scope
during a post-appraisal mission in February, 1981. Negotiations were held



- 15 -
in Washington in March, 1982; the leader of the Moroccan negotiating team
was Mr. Hassan Belkoura, of the Prime Minister's office. The main features
of this project are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report; a Supplementary Project Data Sheet (Annex III) and
Map No. IBRD 16219 are also attached. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
3693a MOR, dated April 20, 1982) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Project Description
48.      The proposed project is designed to:  (a) improve the effectiveness
of teaching at the primary level; (b) assist the Government in meeting more
effectively the basic educational needs of rural children; and (c) expand
and improve the quality of science and mathematics teaching at the senior
secondary level.  The three components are linked by their common objective
of improving the quality and relevance of primary and secondary education,
especially as regards mathematics and science, thereby preparing students
for further skill and professional training to meet the country's manpower
needs.
49.      The project would finance the following components:
i) the provision of learning aids for 700 existing primary
schools;
ii) the construction and equipping of 40 rural primary schools and
related technical assistance;
iii) the development of staff and programs for training senior
secondary mathematics and science teachers, through technical
assistance and the construction and equipping of 4 teacher training
institutes; and
iv) technical assistance for project implementation and for the
preparation of pre-investment studies.
50.      Basic Learning Aids.  To improve the quality of teaching and
learning in the primary schools, the project would provide a package of
basic learning aids to 700 existing primary schools. This would be the
first phase in a Government program to equip all primary schools with such
aids, which include maps, charts, dictionaries, blackboard instruments and
copying machines, considered essential to effective teaching. This first
phase would concentrate on the poorest rural and urban schools. Only about
30% of primary school students would be reached under this first phase, but
this program would allow the MOE to test its proposed system for large-scale
equipment procurement, distribution and maintenance. The proposed schools
have been selected with the Bank's approval. An understanding was reached
during negotiations that the Government would retain the services of an
experienced international agency to assist in the procurement and
distribution of the learning aids. The system for distribution, storage,



- 16 -
and maintenance of the aids would be established by January 1, 1983 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04(a)). The Government would submit a report on the
implementation of the system by January 1, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04(b)).
51.      Primary Schools.  The proposed construction and equipping of 40
rural primary schools is a continuation of a program initiated under the
Third Education Project (47 schools). These schools will be located in the
administrative districts which have the lowest age-group enrollment ratios
according to a national school mapping program. Each school would include 5
classrooms for 40 students each, teacher housing, a school canteen, a small
health room, a workshop for practical activities and a small garden. The
workshop and garden would be used for simple manual skills and home
economics training, as part of an experimental reform of the curriculum to
include practical activities and increased science and mathematics
teaching. The school facilities could also be used after hours for
community development, preventive health and adult education activities.
Housing will be provided to the teachers and school principal as part of an
effort to attract qualified primary teachers to serve in isolated rural
areas. The new curriculum, already approved by the Bank, has been
field-tested in 120 primary schools and has already been integrated into the
national teacher training programs as a prelude to the possible
generalization of the curriculum throughout the primary school system.
Teachers for the 40 schools to be constructed under the project will be
given in-service training in the use of the new curriculum. Twelve
man-months of technical assistance would be financed to strengthen the
practical activities' curriculum development unit within the MOE starting
January 1, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(ii)). Three fellowships of
three man-months each would be provided for the unit's staff, to familiarize
them with similar programs in other countries, and the candidates would be
selected by January 1, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
52.      Senior Secondary Education.  The prqject would finance the
construction and equipping of 4 teacher training institutes to help meet the
estimated needs for qualified science and mathematics teachers at the senior
secondary level. The colleges would provide a flexible mix of three
alternative training programs: (a) a one-year pedagogical training program
for university science and mathematics graduates; (b) a four-year general
science teacher degree program for baccalaureate holders; (c) a two-year
upgrading program for outstanding junior secondary science and mathematics
teachers. The anticipated initial mix of these three programs would produce
a total of 1200, 450 and 200 trained teachers each year, sufficient to
replace expatriate teachers and expand significantly the proportion of
qualified senior secondary teachers by 1990. Each college would provide
boarding facilities to encourage applicants from more distant regions, and
to promote maximum student concentration on the training program. It is
estimated that about one-third of the students would be women.
53.      Key to the development of an effective teaching corps is the
creation of a permanent staff of qualified teacher trainers. The project



- 17 -
will provide 212 man-months of consultant services to train the future
Moroccan staff and to help prepare training curricula. The profiles for the
consultants were agreed during negotiations and they would be hired by
January 1, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(i)). Fourteen fellowships
of two years each and 12 short-term fellowships are to be provided in
specialized fields not currently available in Morocco, to experienced
secondary teachers, who would subsequently be assigned to the training
institutes. The staff training program was reviewed during negotiations and
the candidates and detailed arrangements for the fellowships would be
submitted to the Bank by January 1, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
The job descriptions for the future teacher training staff will be reviewed
by the Bank and the staff will be recruited by January 1, 1983 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05(a)). The draft training curricula, including
student selection criteria and procedures, will be submitted to the Bank for
comments by September 1, 1984, prior to their finalization (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05(b)).
54.      Technical Assistance.  In addition to the technical assistance for
the teacher training institutes as well as for continuing the development of
the "practical activities" primary curriculum described above, technical
assistance will be provided to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (see
para. 55). In addition, $2.8 million (equivalent to 250 man-months of
consultant services) are allocated for carrying out feasibility and
pre-investment studies for possible future projects, to be identified on the
basis of the sector survey carried out in October 1981 (see para. 44).
Implementation
55.      The project will be implemented over a period of about five years
by the Ministry of Education (MOE). Construction and procurement would be
managed by the PIU which has been responsible for implementing the previous
three Bank-financed projects (see para. 42), in close collaboration with the
relevant MOE provincial delegations and central technical directorates. The
Directorate of Primary Education would supervise the technical assistance
and in-service teacher training for the practical activities curriculum as
well as monitor the distribution and maintenance of the educational aids to
the existing primary schools and evaluate their utilization. The
Directorate of Teacher Training will be responsible for supervising the
technical assistance component and the preparation of the staffing plans and
curricula for the teacher training institutes. The PIU is presently
considered adequately staffed with engineers, architects and administrative
personnel to carry out most of its tasks, and would be maintained at its
current level throughout project implementation (Loan Agreement Section 3.01
(b)). However, to ensure continuity in the PIU and the development of an
efficient equipment procurement system, the project provides funds to extend
the contract of the senior architect attached to the PIU, for 24 man-months
(presently financed under the Fourth Education Project) effective July 1,
1985, and to provide engineering consultants to the PIU for 36 man-months,
who would be recruited by January 1, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(a)(iv)). Selected PIU staff members would also be given short-term
training in areas key to project implementation.



- 18 -
56.      In order to avoid the implementation delays that have plagued
previous Bank-financed education projects, the MOE has already acquired all
project institution sites and prepared detailed equipment lists for the
teacher training institutes. Final contruction drawings and bid documents
for the four teacher training institutes and 20 of the rural primary schools
and site layouts for the remaining 20 schools have been approved by the
Bank. Bid documents for the equipment for the training institutes would be
submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (c)).
Budget allocations for local and foreign costs have already been approved
for the Five-Year Plan period (1981-1985), and the Government has confirmed
that the Bank-financed projects would receive highest priority if the
overall budgetary allocations were reduced. The annual recurrent costs
required to operate the project-financed institutions are estimated at
around DH 100 million ($19 million), a modest increase in recurrent
expenditures which is not expected to strain the Governnent's resources.
57.      The PIU maintains its own accounts, under the control of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) which must approve all financial commitments and
which processes applications for Bank disbursements. However, the PIU's
accounts have not previously been formally audited. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the PIU's accounts will be audited annually by
the MOF and that the audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
58.      The total cost of the proposed project, excluding taxes but
including contingencies is estimated at $93.8 million, of which 53% or $49.3
million represents the foreign exchange component. This calculation is
based on the assumption that: (a) all civil works and almost all engineering
services will be awarded to local or mixed Moroccan/foreign firms; (b) all
equipment will be directly imported, and (c) about 70% of the furniture
contracts will be awarded to foreign suppliers. The proposed Bank loan of
$50.0 million would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of the
project and the capitalized front-end fee of $0.7 million ($738,916). The
Government would finance the balance of the total project cost. Civil works
costs, including professional services, are estimated on the basis of unit
prices in current contracts and detailed estimates from other projects of a
similar character and were adjusted for regional cost differences.
Furniture and equipment costs are based on the current CIF unit prices
adjusted to include local transportation and installation. Technical
assistance costs include: (a) a total of 284 man-months estimated at an
average cost of $8,650 per man-month of foreign consultant services
including subsistence, travel and fees and (b) 369 man-months of fellowships
at an average cost of $2,290 per man-nonth. Base cost estimates have been
adjusted to reflect anticipated prices for March 1982. The project cost
includes a physical contingency allowance equal to 10% of all base costs
except for technical assistance, for which it is estimated at 5%.
International price increases were calculated at 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5%
for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for 1986 and 1987. Domestic costs were



- 19 -
estimated to increase by 8% annually from 1982 through 1987. Total
contingencies are estimated at 41% of baseline costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
59.      Civil works contracts for the rural primary schools and the 4
teacher training institutes (totalling $46.4 million not including
contingencies), would be awarded on. the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The contracts for the primary schools would be grouped to the
extent possible. Furniture and equipment items (amounting to $11.7 million
not including contingencies) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in
large packages to permit bulk procurement and contracts in excess of
$200,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Contracts for less than
$200,000 for equipment items for which ICB would not be practical, would be
procured under local procedures acceptable to the Bank; the total value of
furniture and equipment so procured would not exceed $1.5 million. For the
purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers
of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of
the CIF price, whichever is lower. The qualifications, experience, terms
and conditions of employment of consultants financed under the project would
be satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)). Local
engineering services would be procured under local procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
60.      Disbursements would be made over the period August, 1982 through
March, 1988, on the following:
(a)  civil works: ($24.7 million)              42% of total expenditures.
(b) furniture and equipment
($14.4 million):
(i) directly imported                   100% of foreign expenditures;
(ii) locally manufactured                100% of ex-factory cost;
(procured according to ICB)
(iii) locally procured                    85% of local expenditures.
(off the shelf)
(c)  engineering services: ($0.5 million)   18% of total expenditures.
(d)  technical assistance:
(i) expert services                     80% of total expenditures;
($2.7 million)
(ii) fellowships                         100% of foreign expenditures;
($0.9 million)
(iii) pre-investment studies              80% of total expenditures.
($2.9 million)
(e)  front-end fee ($0.7 million)              amount due
$3.2 million would be unallocated.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
61.      The immediate benefits from the project would be the provision of
basic learning materials and equipment to about 450,000 primary school
students; the addition of approximately 8,000 primary school places in areas
poorly served by educational facilities; the creation of a competent cadre of
Moroccan teacher trainers and the development of science and mathematics
teacher training programs; and the training of approximately 1,850 additional
senior secondary teachers per year in order to expand and improve the quality
of mathematics and science teaching. However, the long-term benefits expected
from the project are nuch more substantial. For example, the project permits
the further dissemination of a new approach for the delivery of primary
education to rural areas. This model seeks to address the major constraints
to increasing access to basic education, by reorienting the curriculum to
emphasize practical skills more relevant to rural needs and by introducing a
new physical lay-out which remedies one of the principal difficulties in
recruiting teachers for rural areas, teacher housing. Moreover, the
curriculum and location of these rural schools try to address some of the
factors which have led to low participation of girls in primary education.
The provision of basic learning aids to existing primary schools is expected
to reinforce on-going efforts to improve primary school teaching, increase the
participation of students in the learning process, reduce repeater and
drop-out rates, and make education more responsive to the country's
development needs.
62.      The construction and staffing of the institutes for the training of
senior secondary teachers in mathematics and science is essential to increase
the output of qualified Moroccan teachers required to implement the desired
shift away from a literary bias toward scientific studies in secondary
education, while at the same time reducing reliance on costly expatriate
teachers. The expansion and qualitative improvement of the
science/mathematics curriculum option in senior secondary education will
enhance the provision of higher level scientific and technological manpower
for the country's development efforts.
63.      Experience with previous projects has indicated problems in
maintaining sufficient staff in the PIU, with resulting delays in project
execution. The PIU, currently managing the implementation of the Third and
Fourth Education Projects, has now been provided with adequate professional
staff which would be maintained throughout the implementation of the Fifth
Project. However, to ensure its capacity to assume the execution of the Fifth
Project, particularly as regards procurement, provision has been made for
architectural and engineering consultants to be recruited. It is imperative
that the PIU's staff strength be monitored closely by the Bank through
senestrial reports and supervision missions (see para. 55).
64.      Review of some of the existing teacher training and university
programs indicates extremely high failure rates and considerable variation in
the quality of the training provided. Agreement has been reached on a mix of
training programs which would permit flexible selection of the most



- 21 -
appropriate candidates from the universities, from qualified high school
graduates and from promising junior secondary school teachers, and which
should help reduce failure rates. To ensure a high standard of training in
the senior teachers' institutes, development of a highly qualified cadre of
Moroccan teacher trainers is essential. Consequently, the technical
assistance to develop training curricula, train future trainers and test the
new training programs in provisional facilities is of critical importance, and
is clearly recognized by the concerned authorities. Assurances were also
obtained concerning the profiles and recruitment schedule for the future
teacher training staff. In addition, the final training curricula and student
selection criteria and procedures will be submitted to the Bank for review and
comments as part of an on-going dialogue with the MOE on ways of ensuring the
efficient and effective use of these facilities (see para. 53).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.      Special conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III.
67.      1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                           ANNE I
Page 1 of 6
TAIL1 3A
MO&OCCr1CZAL INDICATOU DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE CROUPS (tEIGHTED AVWES
LAND AKEA (ThUUSAND S. Kll. )                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTITATE)-
20TAL            447.0/c                                                    MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTUMAL     203. 77c                             MOST FIECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIB!EAN
GhP FLA LAPITA (U59)                 200.0       310.0      740.0                865.5                   1616.2
ENLKGY COhSUMPTIUb PER CAPITA
(KILU(A*tS Oi COAL LUILVALNT)     169.3       222.2      315.2                758.3                   1324.1
P'IULaTION AMD VITAL STATISTICS
?OpULATlON, hIO-YEAM (TY,OUSANDS) 11626.0    14993.0   19538.0
URO  FUPULATlUN (PEICNT OF TOTAL) 29.3         34.6       39.9                 45.2                    64.2
YPUULATION YYQJF CTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAh 20UQ (MILLIONS)                       35.6
STATIQNARY POPULATION (IILLI0NS)                        81.0
YEAKt STAT1ONARY PVULATION IS R 1ACHED                 2090
PUQULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Mh.                       26.0        33.5      43.7                  36.3                    34.3
PLh SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANU     59.0        76.0       92.9                442.7                    94.5
FQPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YkS.                         44.8        47.6       46.3                 44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.6        48.3      50.4                  52.4                    55.3
o5 Yha. ANV ALQVE                   2.6         4.1        3.3                  3.4                     4.0
poUyLATIoN GROWTR 8ATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                              2.6         2.5        2.9                  2.7                     2.4
URbAN                              3.7         4.2        4.5                  4.6                     3.7
L.UOF BIRTh hATE (PER THOUSAND)     50.2        47.4      44.2                  41.5                    31.4
CKUDE DLATH MATE (PER THOUSAND)     20.8        16.4       12.8                 12.8                     8.4
OhOSS RENIMOOICTION IIATE            3.6         3.5        3.2                  2.9                     2.3
FASILY PLANNIbG
ACCLYTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1       78.0
USERS (PERCLNT  V HARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.0       5.4
LOUD ANh NUThITION
INDLX UF FUUD PRODUCTION
PLR CAYITA (1969-71-10O)          99.0        98.0       85.0                 96.3                   108.3
PFK CAPITA SUPPLY Of'
LALUkIES (PEhlXEhT UF
MNQOUiAkJVLhTS)                 96.0       102.0     105.0                 110.4                   107.6
PFhOlhS (GRAMS PFR DAY)           62.0        66.0      67.0                  73.4                    65.8
UF WHICH AMIMAL AND. PULSE      13.0        13.0      13.0                  17.1                    34.0
ChILD (AGFS 1-4) MORTALITY MATE     30.3        21.9       15.7                 14.9                     7.6
htkALIh
LIFL EXPECTANCY AT BIKTh (YEARS)    46.9        51.9      56.4                  55.9                    64.1
INFAhT  OKRTALITY
KATF (PEk ThOUSAND)                 ..          ..        ..                    ..                    70.9
ACC.Ei  TU SAFE WAIER (PERCENT OF
PQP'ULATION)
TOTAL                             30.6        51.0      55.0                  59.4                    65.7
UAkAhA                            58.7        92.0    100.0                   83.9                    79.7
KLKAL                             19.0        28.0      25.U                  40.8                    43.9
ACIESS TO EXCKLTA DISYLSAL (PLRCENT
UF POPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..        29.0        ..                    ..                    59.9
URbAN                               ..        75.0         .                    .75.7
KURAL                               ..         4.0        ..                    ..                    30.4
POPULAIION LEA PHYSIC}AN          9406.1/d   12614.5   11037.4                4174.5                  1728.2
PoPULATIoN PLK NURSINQ PERSON         ..      2742.2    1693.5                1780.5                  1288.2
PuPULATION FEY hOSPITAL MlD
TOIAL                            626.0       664.3     773.6                 647.4                   471.2
URBAN                               ..       454.7    623.4                  547.2                   558.0
KuEAL                               ..      5821.4   3089.5                 3361.1
ADMLISSIONS PER hOSPITAL hFD          ..        15.5       16.5                 25.3
AVLAAOE SIZE OP HOUSEhOLD
TOTAL                              4.8         5.5
U'RBAN                             4.3         4.9
.LRKAL                             5.1         5.8         .
AVY ADE hUFISER OF PERSONS PER ROfA
TUIAL                              2.2         2.4
ktANA,                             2.1         2.1
RURAL                              2.3         2.6
ALULSS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
ut UWELLI.'.US)
TOTAL                             76.1/e        ..
uKAAI.                            85.47T      68.4      65.0
&L.AL                             30.8_         ..        .



-  23 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCD - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEtAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b EST1IMATE /b          HIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         52.0      72.0                   85.1                     101.7
MALE                  67.0         67.0       90.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                27.0         36.0      54.0,                  67.5                     101.5
SECUNDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0         13.0      20.0                   38.0                     35.3
MALE                   7.0         18.0       25.0                  48.1                      34.9
FEHALE                 2.0          7.0       15.0                  28.3                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0       3.C                   11.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0         34.0      39.0                   34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                             ..         20.0      21.0                   23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         14.0         21.4      28.0                   43.0                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         14.8      19.6                   18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          45.8         62.4      87.4                  121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         11.6      32.6                   37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   22.0         16.2      10.7                   35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..       2.0                    3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        3369.7      3951.7    5117.3
FEM2ALE (PERCENT)                   10.1         14.1      15.6                   10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               62.5         56.9      52.7                   43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  13.8        17.4       20.7                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 29.0         26.4      26.2                   26.4                     31.8
MALE                                  52.1         45.2      44.2                   47.0                     49.0
FEHALE                                 5.9          7.5       8.2                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          2.0        1.9                   1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRISUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f        20.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.377        49.07        .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.07T         4.077
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.077         12.077      .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AbSOLLITE P9VERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              107.0       157.0      389.0                 271.4
RURAL                               66.0       101.0      238.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     242.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     157.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               51.0        38.0       28.0                  22.1
RURAL   .                           49.0        45.0       45.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among che indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1962; /e Brick buildings only; /f Consumption expenditures of households.
Revised
June, 1981



-24  -                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
outampaIs op soc141 LIICAT0ES
- ,.' ..c i ...                          O  co,ooc   ont   cc.,ms  -hcenttsti- oad reILtle, it eatld .1w  be  -te  that theyS, -ooe be I.t...
- -teai  OnObiet I----    ~t .c     -    - ieodiead deWito-   In   ceetste  by diff.1-et tean ..i  t                                lbetot . Od.t.  The "I..   t.
t. ..... unfid  to dasciha o,der-o  seot ,Ildicate lr54d.. adcaross  ...ta. -J).? dIffen-nce   betee  c-etris..
7ho r-f-ara   ...rop P. e Il    <it ese    -lutr  sroep of theao 7.0   t t-rir  sod (2) I              .-nrygoP  ihteaeta  high..  Lvra         --nc    thee Lb.  onr  group
of th -010ccttoy"              <                s_"CrCo  lrpu  Oil Exotr't-ro  et- 'Nt1ddle  ec. I-- ortO  Atrfc  te. d Mcddlr East  it thre-  hcc.(o  tte
eooo-Licori.  c(ftltio.            tIhe  teoc    ru  dee. the  -.eoge  -t  pociton S.thts   erttc  neo  fo- e-.h  idi .er d  h.o- Onln,e
aeleriyothocuretcerpho    taorhn indicator.  Stacs. th.e  ....ra. of c--tr.. or    h    oieEr   aed  o   h   rcablE    fft
ta  h  we  hgfp.  odotr  Iast-pbh. o     deote    10 rohont  orrg.o   n   e  certeoee.Taeesos   r                              !.Ie.ft4      co. ere   the oe,bo.iI   of 
..ECI - Tonal  -nrec  IpI ooayp'ttet    1.0  ope .eo  teled ener.                                  zhr  004  ort) dtrtda   by  he   esenr   uee   fteptled
Aui-it-liA.  - fattLt  of egr-oo.Inoa1ea oIad taperestir or Pe.oentnlY                             oroiabla It public and p,itnere twerL redL:sp .ia-rd hsia   -tdr
forimp.  oetro. eoba  et b. iteher grdse  oenIL. fWIor; 1978 dat.                         hrlncteerr.    toRotoiaer.ataht; I -..ee                  -efferl     Irtd
byenlse   oeobati..ftalthae.p-oodire pricLy tnr
Gii  PeR CAPITA (ISO   - OF P pr  apt ..P   i.. eeIe  torrean earca  pre . t-                        die1 tare are eon inoe . te.1 h-ePitt)e. toee.-                toeheath
to          19,Ilaned by   5  t -ee.ti  tenbd as Wre1d Btek .nI.a (1917-79 bacie) 19Ch0,           end  adttei c-rE.r. eon Orr-eaneenly*ffld by I ph,.Ician  (ht -  
170, eod 19-de.adircl  ..tnen  tn. I_                                                                                             ete  ar.   th offe-t-ecc    co
dertre eed Pr...d. I  coined rarer of -adi.-Ifetni.Poaai-
UtilE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COtIttlPE ye aITA - OeotaiA  ce..Peioeo    -srte xneg   (torI  ticol proe   y    heeritoLa i-1ode W10. PrioctPal) ...rse  hoeins
adlgITe. petrl-, neoe. e  ted hydr-,                       Ablortd geetherel nec-               - ad  Por    beepel lnel or rurl heaPenes eed eadhi.l end -sene.ity
oren,)i  kilogee  of cti not                ..n ercPi..; 1960, 1970, ad  1979                 ...tsr..I  Spen.Iiated bsit.l  a. - riloded otly teentoal
dote.                                                                                           Adeteatan  rer itrspn.l ted - Tonal t-ae  of edd.eeLon   Ieo.          tehre
free hespit.1a dividad by, the  Icde f hed..
PdOPe.ATteS Alt  VITAL STATIrSTICs 
T ..   II..   Kid--l (t  ...    - I AS If loly I; 190., 1S70. ed 1979
done.                                                                                         dvrOO  tire ef lNehed (rps.  nbuhold)    on l.rbe., and rorel -
fth.. Prnale(esrof torxl) -  atoo  etho  to nonL.pplatt                                            A tousbald cerutnonef, a- geP of tdtdaerreeelor   o
4tffwte  defirIittee  ofabc.eee,afo    erhin    fdtaed Ebir eat. IIIle   *                                                     nd-  -r ledger eay or  ay an  he itcldd  It,.
_meeonrie  160. 1970. s.d  .979 do.                                                               be heteheld torn-onionicl pPpe,"-
PreiethoeProt                                                                                   A-, Irrn  teher of erene  te -Po  - tetol. _th.. _re  _oe  -Atr
Prenlnfee  a yew1000 -ICoret poPeclia- ProJeh.i.   ore bo.. d oe 1990                    _e=fprer   e  ro.tal   ra. an   IrrI1 o.. opiedtno4                    ir
renal poe.eoIter by e.e. ad aen rEA lheir IIIelty ad fertiliny tes.                            .a.lae.rneriel.halig   eeoide  e-.perte t  -nnoo.... .nd
PrrJ..Iia  . pa .n.. for  -.nlley rote  trptee  of thre  isrel   _at                          'tOrd rome
tot life tepertoya  bihib inornIbs .iI.   anr'ePee cEni- ia-                                doer  te tlwnrheint(eteto I-         d-elne -- toal th . end tIe 
hera  ad tfe). ii   oprtay  -tbililiej at 77.0 yea.    hepr-Cotoo  d-el                                                 th  ....cub  ecnioiy i. lirieg q-onerIcrp..r....ag.
ene. farfenlt1y.  r-a aLa  h-.e Ebree lerl  e-tre  dsiia  it                            Iftoti  erhae. adIntldnISrer otiey
fenni4igy .....rdi"o no ltoa  ca  adI Por  fIIL Y pidenie  pafraar..
,_ch coener  Le Eheeosied   e   flthre  nia  e1eLtaatoe  of --lt,ln                 ~      CTM
ad  fertility trede for preleonl                                                          K25ese.  # Itd itltgae
snatleenn  reralatipp - I. Albe..oy  estocr hr  it en XVIItb enere                              Prilem   ahe  -tnl asi  end f_ a              s- .re. n.ee, _aia ad fair
the birtb rare L. eqas  Er the denb rat. end else the age otuiuer-                              enreiset ef oil egac an nhe petsefy level es p-rengeofrset
ralee  eentea.  mi  cc ecioredealy It O   fsrtiliny  rta derifee  nL pei1ery                                              -11-teppsl7ec  al  heolade  childre   aged -l
Ehe nepI -e  leve  of het ca  rprdaetn  an, the  -eh geereete                                   e..e hen odjloae   fer diffaratt 1ieth. cf pli-sy.7                   ftte;Er
of se     eiteitenIf ceely.  Th. statlenor  pePelAti_to. aa.                                    taafir  VIESatb       ro  edortahe   ere            -yn    a  ae d 100 parosa
antoated en the boots If the preSeted ceweitesr  the pese"itto                                  acn.  -  pepIla Ite holet or abate nba oir1 whel age.
L.tnba pee  lltO, end nh. rate  If delin  of fertlUity rat  II raploor3-.                     Stedes  oha - teel                             -mCoprEd to obe; eendsa
Sz,oonentter ateniatia-. he eeMe  - Th. yat  eh.  tniaoypepletienpateegarl  raiaL.-eI                                                   nodo  nre.It.0iercne    for Ptril
.L.. hoe bee  r-aba.                                                                            oeeall  a  12 no 17 peer  et  S.;torepeee                tooa          -I gntlly
Pa  q.h. - ta-ep ppul.ni  per sqosr    lister  (100 hentorelef                         Pa-ot-1o. earelam     (enone  ef  men tey) - Voeefes  eeiteie
ntal. ere; 1940. 1970  Ad  1979 dot.                                                            tenLds  "ehlol   A  ttr . or ethe  pret.&-  e-i.h epnnscd.per
Pe s.'r.  -sI.tlor      A e, -  esed AS, rher  for  Sapirtanos  l-d                           stir or AS dIr,otaa   nO' ewdryttiot 'I.
eel; itd.17   a   9*dt.P421tl-eehor ertlo - prMer, ad  "seedAt  - To.a    Lndnoeteidt
Peendeac AS. es terent   fretent)   CbO.dre (0-id Y---)f. terhle-rle U i-                            penney gad   -.nedor  1eret  di,ided by teshe- of ht...n Le theI
40 Y- r). adrtr.         (93yna5     O   tp  eIpeeee    f ei.yo    , tpa.                         iersee "  lral..
i.aioe; 1960. 1970, ad 197  doeL, ltre   re   anoa  - Litreats adalt  (eble tr reed on  -it.)i
peseitetor Oreeth gate (areceg) - nrne~ - tael greseb p.t.a ef tatol sodd        e aS  P--eeAG  of eetal edalt pePuIlote    aged 15 rears and aver.
yerpoaone    erlStd.19-       0- 70. a-d1970S79.               t.
Pee=oIonf breath lon  (eront                   ASre - I00  rantb reII- of  rheePI.-           COItIc
".f sfr1006. 1I0-0  ed  90-9                                                           Pees.e   Cor  (ear tboooded PIRtlation) -PcIeteItrstopo   -eero
Crud. Srn  la,, (an oheuoed  - dA--el lire birth. pe- thecad If ea-porca. eceeta.-le    then agha P-r-w  acld.eshln.era   n
"etuLnee  196.  1970. adA 1979 Orta,                                                            etittoer  -bUilIs.
Crede D-en   W.t fee  nhenOdi - denl  ethe p.rneeed   f ai-erbitOeterfrtneee  enenlantee  - All typsa of rt _ves  terdh
,pepeeite  1960. 197. a   1979  one=brodoaa  "osralpeblir Per th-nread ef "poplstt;  eoi                                                                             da 
her aarl rprodttcveparhd if she    orieeaee preanee- riiUfa-                              "tIS       t  ff      doe. ten recet years  ay at ho reSpar..hl.  Lt-.
tililt inen- ueol fLit.-ae        -oarg    neela  it 1960. .970. ned L979.                      saIItI.    St.abtLiteh     lceotg.
Fatly PlaeIL9 e       -Oaetr.A-LIt(baead - A-eaa  hebte  If ..Ceeer I                           TV  -elL-(n  heee   eneit~-T   ear                             fer blra.... tn
of hte                t.tn ..dvhs   _Pda   Laoi_a efvIhei fatty PtIeeee  Pature.                 enrlpbi   e   honeSed prnen 1e acide  telteed Ix retensr
lodyPhatett  - iDr=   (ereeo E      erria  trct-Pnots f sOrted                                 it   -.eOL.. and Le pas- to                     IVirre   Tf I .t.ettsIteft.
Ita   f thild-hoortog esI (1-64  per.) the eec bfenb-oeni doted. to                        tenae  Crnoie   rpnhaOdwnoet     - Shor- hee,                          agc
Publi-itto   dsvetd priteaply n   wrteeorltt.I  Otets
PlOt AM5  NUTRITIVOI                                                                                 no bo 'doily" if i, apeane en le-   f-   InO. I -e.k
pradoonlot of oil feed toaditlos.  Pradetnia" eoloda   -ad ad  feed ad               tithone aId doret      h   er  EiciOaeate   tdtet   ise
Le .t totendo  pna  heaie.  CoIdEtnse corer palar  Soode (a.g. easeete                           ad  _ahils. ie
i.ctad of  .oge) ehtrbar  -dhI  a            e .i  otr-teat  (e.g.  .t.f 0     d
eatioolevrsgO   redest pIIs eighte  16-6.  90. ad 17dosTeaLbrtre  ntodSt     cwoclytinpnre   ridn
Par carEd eoeir of clenteetaro t of rrerne       atdfe                                ea    rtotdocydb.r enidn   heshee   tdon.eo
per day.  Aiotlehie apLee  optia d-nett  p,odnonto. tepertI lee                        tea  ..ep..abia; 1990, 1970 ad  1979 dot.
~rree   end  har L. i  anek.  Nte  aopplte  ariod  eoii  fend, eseda,                 Paefor.el-   as   ao  torre e                            Ietnng f tonet tehbr forte.
Onotite  Isd Lb fad preceeeao  ead le..  to dtsnn.ibotr. aaRe-                              Aeietee( roent  - Labor fllrro te Earste . for9eny. h-ntg  e
.n en .oteened hy PAO heb        tphsilge  teda for e..-I.  tit-                        f obftega     Ieonns   f teaa1 Irhe  for; 1090  190 ted  Ill dt.
etty ot ba.th  eedro    nireao   crtr.body estghee, age                                     ledneer (aroent)     ite   to.t  Er acitin.     ccnrcin,eefoor
ad  se  dte-ribontot of pnlto. ed  i              e  It portent fop onoe at                   s.   ienhoa.  ne  end jo  e  peongeo   otllhe   ete   9
hontheid lers; 1961-6S. 1970, end 1977 don.                                                   1070 ad  197 9 dotI.
P., taeile   -I, of ... tel (r0    e  den  - Prtte cet..-  ef Por -piu                       ftortiriateelate SI (earreI) -ttl  as  e  fae Perooc  .tia .o
ent apply If trod Per icy.  on.  rupply of fa.d it deftoed  e abets.  00-                     wntrnn  rats. Ire eerusdeenNe.ee.,en  Esl  lohe- tors-a
qorteEnillt   .     toLI   tvteg  .;sA.blthd by ittO. pte-ld. foe tledn                       petaa         f net-L, sae end fte-I  eo,.Lt-o o-      f tILL rg,Ina.     ch
glp-.eso  of ht oSet  of ten It pretsi  pe  d.y end 20 Sten  of .50a en                       1960. 1970, and l1979dan._Thee ar  hosebId or II;'s roritifr-ot  ens
price  protein, of Ohith it gree  thould ho .ifol p`,en.II.  The-  ted                        rAdir_ttog eg-a   srareo  ropopuaton  ed IIeg tIes   ed.  A
erd. ens l_e  tbte theaI If 71 Sgte  of toesi  -rnit set 23 erSe If                           fs   etetratIe. etoe   erre
atei p-ent  ga -ererGe for the enIdL~, proeed by tAO it the Third                          te_el teoDeecA y ltIn   -lato- of population onder iS and tO set -n
dord   adto=e; 1091-ht, 1970 end 197                                                       C.s.t   the  -et   Labor force
tie    r.   eeera   palesa          gra  pe  day;.1961-6. 19710 end 1977dene,.            19COM  IEtTRIIDPEI
ChLd logs 1-4  Igenet..     tes"e, ttoterd           A-1de     destha P.' tbt-ed1                P-ro...a of Pr t-ot  1nci   (honh Le tea  ed d.04   - R.i-etrd by fittest
Int.. aote derived free life tobia; 1960. 1970 ad  1979 d"nI                                    of. ho-htde.            0         pI.,2                  .     --1   -..
000tT5                                                                                          P00195  TAlCeT CetOP
lf =oonory ea 9girth (rere)    iea.a ott  of ".lr nf lOsref                  ei               The  trueingstsaeoecp   proot   eerso   osE    eee
obit;1960, 1970 en  1979 doc.._end' hbeedShe i e.r.Prsncd emh.. cosd.rebltoon
ofag  pP.  Ihtad1mhrh,Oelt   oet   nn    ee   ata    oainlhm                                                                                                 dto e' - niuto
Wctao  t        .af .Otte   Irnne of P rotltte-tne.eh,a    us-ttiticeolY edoqita di.n pLda                                                ..eric   o-food  -eq.itrasen.    re
her of  -pIApe  tot.1, orhet  a d ro...  rit.hl rewti  Atoes  no sf.f                             fedb
en-a  sopply      M.-ida    ot    .of..eer           t  errIdbneeetaets                        aostdiiai.Prst  noP.                    s I)   e  ton)-  rwnd  oa 
entw  eches  bor fos proeona  -horhes, aPotese  cod  -Lt.nay tells) otflrtttspsnyicm L.nL t   n-h                                             faeeepncpt
pecnee   fthcirrfap.ti   pototos    nenohn  r.apoccptenieoptfcco nr.inretlednidtnterc
re hiotew  tell4 IIei   htteho if   rsaeso   h  henehei                                  a       itre    .4- trtc    of.poncihnco- IftrO  en  rural  oto srs'O
I                -Idn oraeltaoa  1-Ire o   .of iopl,-Lf. - tonbdl. frn  and rt hIl -d
Mi1hap cf peopls (nre,ure,  ;adto k)eaIe  by ewnane disposal se
PIrcentge  of thIptspttie   oe.n...    creediepeal eny ioild.
iAn  eetitioe    -coy usc_I ~                                      i.IIfIa..DiII
Porleton  et  hya otac     Po       Lbsto   Orde~ddb oiby  o-f Onetiirephet
otegqoiftd  re    edoe IaholatQtr- en   isrol.g



-25-
pu la tl       :  19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                 ANNEX I
CNP Pe  v          I 'S 740 (1979)                                                                                                Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USi at                                   Annual Growth Rates (x)
current prices)                       Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                       1980          1976   1977   1978   1979        1980 p/         1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17640           10.2    6.5    3.4    4.5         4.0             3.9      5.7      6.2     6.6      6.7
Agriculture                 3253          4.3  -13.2   23.6   -1.7         6.2             3.5      3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5
Industry                    5599          8.8   10.0   -2.0    8.3        0.5              4.0      6.0     7.4      7.4      7.4
Services                    8788         13.3    8.3    4.3    4.2       13.0              4.0      5.2     6.2      6.9      7.0
Consumption                   15767         11.7    2.0    7.4    3.3         5.1             4.0      2.3      4.1     4.8      6.0
Gross investment               3849         20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2        -5.8            -5.2    15.7    12.8    10.2        8.0
Exports of GNFS                3273          6.3    9.8    3.8    5.5         4.8             7.6      6.5      8.8     9.6      6.8
Imports of GNFS                5247         23.8   13.5  -16.1   -1.1       -9.2             -0.3    -1.0      4.8      4.5      5.0
Gross national savings         2429         13.9   20.6  -16.6   11.5         ..             -2.2    20.9    10.6    14.1        7.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 - 100)          .       152.0  163.7  177.1  189.8    208.8
Exchange rate (USe per DH)         .        .226   .222   .240   .256        .254
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                            Average Annual Increase (X)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                             4.0        4.9        5.7        5.9        6.8
Agriculture             29.1   19.9   15.1   13.6   12.5  10.7                  3.5       -0.5        3.2        3.5        3.5
Industry b/            23.5   27.6   30.6   29.5   31.6  32.4                   4.7        8.6        5.0       6.6        7.3
Services b/            47.4   52.5   54.3   56.9   55.8  56.9                   4.1        5.5        7.3       5.9        7.2
Consumption                89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   82.3  79.7                  4.1        4.7        5.8        4.1       6.1
Gross investment           10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   18.5  18.9                  8.0       15.9  -   -2.4   --  9.4          7.3
Exports GNFS               27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.9  17.3                  1.3        2.6        6.3        8.0        7.2
Imports GNFS               26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   17.8  i5.9                  3.5        7.2        2.1        2.7       4.3
Gross national savings   11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   19.5  21.3                    3.5       13.1        3.1       10.0        8.7
As x of GDP
1960       1970      1975       1980 e/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  16.5      16.6       23.3       22.3
Current expenditures                             15.6       14.9       20.2       21.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                        0.9        1.7        3.1        0.6
Capital expenditure                               3.8        5.9       12.2       12.1
Foreign financing                                   ..       1.4        3.7        5.5
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (x)                      4.0        6.0        5.9       5.6        6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (x)           1.6       3.1        3.0        2.5        3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (%)    3.8           6.7       4.3        5.9        6.8
ICOR                                    3.09       2.77       3.87       2.88       2.74
Marginal savings rate                    0.10      0.40      -0.002      0.33       0.24
Import elasticityc/                      0.95       1.44      0.28       0.76       0.80
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
e/ Estimate.
p/ Preliminary.
EMENA CP 1I-B



-  26
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                     ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USS 740 (1979)                                                                                        Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                  Annual Growth Rates (Z)
Indicator           (million US3 at                              (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                Actual                                     Projected
1980         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979        1980 e/  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)       2414       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    4.0          6.9       7.6    6.0    9.3   10.4    6.5
Primary products             1823       -25.3   13.1    2.1    3.8    3.5         7.3       3.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.3
Phosphate rock             765      -29.9   12.0    7.5   10.4    3.2         -7.5       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                    1058      -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6         17.1       3.0    3.2    3.4    3.7    3.9
Intermediate & manufactures 591          -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3    7.0         5.5      17.5   10.7   20.7   21.7    9.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)       4283        21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7    -11.5          0.7    4.7    5.5    5.0    5.7
Food                          720        35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    1.2        10.7      -5.1   -5.3   -5.1   -5.2    4.9
Petroleum                    1006        12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2    -12.5          3.8   -4.4    3.8    4.1    3.0
Machinery and equipment       805        51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2    -19.9          1.0   17.2   13.3   10.2   10.6
Others                       1752         5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7   19.1    -13.8          2.4    4.5    5.4    5.4    3.2
PRICES (1969 - 100)
Export price index                 .       256.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  231.7    264.2    291.5  319.8  348.7  380.6  411.3
-Import price index                .       205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  252.4    293.4    326.0  351.4  379.2  408.7  437.9
Terms of trade index               .       125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5   91.8        90.0      89.4   91.0   91.9   93.1   93.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)                       Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                (at constant 1969 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990        1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                          2.0      -0.7        7.5-       8.1        6.9
Primary products         89.5    89.7   86.9   75.5   61.3   59.8         -.         -2.2        4.7        4.1        6.0
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.4   13.1   24.5   38.7   40.2              .       9.0       17.8       16.0        8.1
factures
Imports                                                                          4.0       8.1        0.0        4.5        5.4
Food                      27.3    16.8   24.9   16.8    9.6    6.6            ..      14.0       0.8       -3.8       -1.8
Petroleum                  7.4     5.5   10.7   23.5   24.2   23.4            .       9.5       10.2        1.8        2.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   18.8   28.2   32.3              .       12.8      -3.0       11.3        8.7
Others                    58.6    53.7   40.5   40.9   38.0   37.7            ..       3.8      -5.4        4.5         5.6
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)         Developing Countries (%)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)
1960      1970       1975        1960       1970       1975      1960           1970            1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       73.7       60.8        27.7       25.4      38.8        ..             0.9             0.4-
Imports                        76.7       74.9       65.7        23.3      25.1       33.9        ..              ..             0.4
e/ Estimate.
EMENA CP IT-8



- 27 -
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                                           ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita.  US5 740 (1979)                                                                                                                             Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYIENTS, EMXTRNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US6 at current prices)
Indicator                                                      Actual                                                         Proiected
1970     1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980 e/   1981    1982    1983   1984   1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                775      2580      2288      2486      2955     3694       4364        5136    5852    6758   7872   8926   16088
Of which; Merchandise f.o.b.             488      1530      1245      1283      1488      1938       2413       2851    3314    3951   4759   5477   10336
Imports of goods and services                946      3134      3691     4364      4353      5268       5911       6369    6899    7911   8791   9865   16604
Of which, Merchandise f.o.b.             625      2267      2305      2820      2628      3245       3770       4158    4693    5344   6046   6846   12178
Net current tranfers                          27         a        47        52        50        44        127          -                -       -       -        -
Current account balance                     -144     -546    -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530          -1420      -1233   -1047   -1153   -919   -939    -516
Special grants                                         100       435       360      260       420         97         300     250      200    150    100         -
Current account balance after grants    -144          -446     -920    -1466    -1088    -1110         -1323       -933    -797    -953   -769   -839    -516
Private capital                               21        21        38        53        45        37         88         25      28       31      35      39      79
MLT loans (net)                               90       304       336      1338     1109       946       1188        1083     901    1121    882    979        727
Official                                                                                                         716      643      683    554    612       618
Private                                                                            .                             367      159      437    329    368       109
Other capital                                 56       104        30      - 68       -73        73       -111        -70      -42     -30       -       -        -
Monetary movements                           -23        17        16         6         8        53        158      -105      -89    -169   -147   -179    -289
International reserves                       161      437       548       609       772       917        814        972    1061    1229   1376   1556    2681
Of which:  Gold                            21       85        82       104       154       360        415        360      360      360    360    360       360
Reserves as months imports                   2.0       1.7       1,8       1.7       2.1       2.1        1.7        1.8     1.8      1.9    1.9    1.9       1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT */
Gross disbursements                          175       664       725      1787      1182      1405       1567
Concessional loans                                 164       121       634       334       321        750
DAC                                     .       109        73       107       100        76         97
OPEC                                             42        41       507       189       179        598
IDA                                               1         4         3         -         -          I
Other                                            13         3        17        45        66         69
Non-concessional loans                             500       614      1151       857      1113        817
Official export credits                 .         3        22        27         2         2         11
IBRD                                   16       110        59        68        72       137         64
Other multilateral                                7         2         7        51         7         13
Private                                25       380       531      1049       732       967        729
Suppliers credits                    .       127        10       171        10         8         16
Financial credits and bonds         ..       253       521       878       722       957        713
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           703      1753      2330      4069      5123      6182       7097
Official                                       1121       250      1975      2456      2833       3482
Private                                         632      1080      2094      2667      3349       3615
Undisbursed debt                         239       652       801      1024      2280      2337       2018
Debt service
Total service payments                     58       145       162      264       547       798       1191
Interest                               23        50        66       148       252       411        618
Payments as x exports of GCS              7.5      5.6       7.1      10.7      18.5      21.6       27.3
Average interest rate on new loans (x)          4.4       7.3       7.7       6.8       7.0       8.2        8.1
Average maturity of new loans (years)          18.5      14.7      11.7      13.1      13.2      15.9       13.7
As Z of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1979)
Maturxty structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                            38.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                           73.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                            6.9
EENEA CP TI-B
a/ From IBRD External Debt Reporting System. There are sizeable discrepancies in som years between the external capital and debt service flows
reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
e/ Estimated.



-  28  -                                   ANNZX 11
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                                         US$ Million
Credit                                                                Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year      Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
Twenty-two    Loans      Fully disbursed                              572.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                          36.0
1018           1974      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                    8.4
555            1975      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        11.3
1202           1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                 21.0                   11.6
1220-T         1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   16.5
1383           1977      CIOR                    Industry              45.0                   0.3
1416           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                  33.4
1428           1977      BNDE                    OPC                   43.2                   8.4
S-7           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                   0.9
1528           1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       15.5
1602           1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                  61.3
1625           1978      Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                   10.2
1681           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                 111.9
1687           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                   13.2
1695           1979      Xingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                  41.9
1704           1979      CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                  43.2
1724           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                  36.7
1757           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                  50.3
S-18           1980      BRPH                    Oil Exploration       50.0                  32.5
1830           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                  60.0
1848           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                  32.7
1943           1981      CIh                     Tourism              100.0                  77.3
1944           1981      Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                      36.0
2006           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            87.0                  87.0
20371'         1982      BNDE                    DFC                   70.0                  70.0
20381/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                  70.0
20821/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             29.0                  29.0
Total                                                          1809.1 3/   50.0        969.5
of which has been repaid 2/                                   217.1        0.9
Total now outstanding                                          1592.0       49.1
Amount Sold                                 20.1
of which has been repaid 2/               17.7                  2.4
Total nov held by Bank and IDA                                 1589.6       49.1
Total undisbursed                                               958.2       11.3       969.5
NOTE
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ As of February 28, 1982 latest data available.
3/ A $9.5 million loan for a Small Scale Mining Project and a *27 million loan for a Forestry
Project were approved by the Board on March 23, 1982; and a $20 million loan for an Oil Shale
Engineering Project was approved by the Board on March 25, 1982.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
_US$ Hillion_
Loan     Equity   Total
1962/1978           BNDe                         Development Bank           -       2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                          Canning Factory           0.9      0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement             Cement Factory             -        1.3      1.3
1977/1980           Temara Cement                Cewent Factory            4.7      3.6       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement *              Cement Factory           12.5       2.2     14.7
1980                SOHIFFR                      Copper Mining            13.0      2.3      15.3
1981                Casablanca Cement            Cement Factory           15.8       -       15.8
Total Gross Commitments                                              46.9      12.6      59.5
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales          14.4       3.4      17.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                                     32.6      9.1      41.7
Total Undisbursed                                                     15.8      0.4      16.2
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane sprinkler and transport equipment.
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the additional infrastructure
works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement approved in July
1980. Disbursements have lagged behind implementation due to delays by ORMVAG
in submitting reimbursement requests to the Finance Ministry.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
wmoentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and civil works
(roads, destoning and irrigation rehabilitation) have been started in the
remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected, mainly because
project implementation has proven more complex than anticipated, which has
been aggravated by project management problems. However, the first results of
the completed components are promising. Because of the initial delay and the
complexity in implementation, the original closing date was extended by three
years.
Ln. No. 1202        Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
The project consists of infrastructure works and common facilities
for a hotel/residential tourism development complex. Most infrastructure
works were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of common
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to institutional and project management problems. Project
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
completion is expected to be delayed by at least 18 mnths, and an extension
of the closing date is being considered, contingent on the Government's
agreement to an action program. In view of implementation delays together
with the recent appreciation of the dollar, it is unlikely that the loan
amount will be fully disbursed even if the closing date were extended as
proposed.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agricultural extension, health and tourism. After an initial
two-year delay, there has been improvement in project implementation.
Construction of the education and agriculture components is largely
completed. Due to lengthy delays in the health and tourism components, it has
been proposed to limit Bank financing of these components to the College of
Public Health and two of the five tourism training centers. The closing date
is being extended to September 1, 1982; further extension of the closing date
would depend on improvements in disbursement performance, which has lagged due
to administrative delays both in the Project Unit and the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco in 1980-81 which caused a delay of about
two years. Project implementation has resumed vigorously under excellent
project management; however, disbursements are still lagging due to slow
payment of contractors by the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date;
September 30, 1982.                                                       *
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of industrial sub-projects, and of a small-scale industry pilot
credit program ($5 million). The loan is fully committed( $2.8 million was
cancelled), and about three-quarters of the loan has been disbursed. BNDE's
financial performance deteriorated sharply in 1981, and it is not meeting



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
covenanted financial targets. The situation is being closely mnnitored and an
action plan is being drawn up with BNDE and the Treasury in the context of
effectiveness of Loan No. 2037 (BNDE 9).
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a first phase project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation was delayed by about 15
months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily. The technical
components of a possible project have been identified, but institutional
problems have not yet been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. While construction is proceeding
satisfactorily on two sites, that of another site is delayed due to technical
difficulties. There has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the
project due to the lack of experience in Morocco with this kind of project.
Disbursements have lagged due to slow payments to contractors by the Ministry
of Finance; the Government has recently agreed to an action program to
accelerate project implementation and disbursements.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness; February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, due to excellent project management and good interagency



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
coordination. However, disbursements have lagged due to delays by the
implementing agencies in submitting reimbursement requests to the Ministry of
Finance.
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storage facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an-institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation was initially delayed; however, all major contracts have now
been signed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a Government program to assist
small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The loan is virtually fully committed, since March 31,
1982 was the target date for submission of withdrawal requests.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date; June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in more than 200 villages throughout the country. Problems of
interministerial coordination and budgetary allocations initially delayed
project start-up for about one year. However, implementation has recently
accelerated and the project is expected to be completed according to schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through mid-1983. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD and
KfW. CNCA's on-lending as well as repayments were severely affected by the
1980-1981 drought, slowing disbursement of the Bank loan. To alleviate CNCA's
short-term liquidity problems (due mainly to the drought), its lenders,
including the Bank, have increased their disbursement percentages under their
respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to increase accordingly.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export.  $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and mediunrterm farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the Government's
petroleum exploration and development program. It has recently been
transferred from BRPM, the original Borrower, to the new petroleum development
agency, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
(ONAREP). The project also provides technical assistance in prospect
evaluation, analysis of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Drilling so far has shown encouraging results, particularly as regards natural
gas prospects. Procurement problems have hampered project implementation and
recruitment of consultants has proceeded very slowly. Administrative problems
have also delayed disbursements.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement
strengthening and maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The
hiring of consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the
slow preparation of the terms of reference. Disbursements have lagged due to
delays in payment of contractors as well as transmittal of reimbursement
requests to the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US034.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date:June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices.  It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is in its early stages but
is progressing satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985.
The project would provide funds over a three year period to the
Credit Immobilier et H8telier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing
in the tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It
also includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and
training of CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects.
Commitments and disbursements have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project would support the Government's efforts to provide
shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban families through a
program for slum upgrading, sites and services and provision of serviced land
for small-scale industries, to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and
Kenitra. Assistance is also provided to strengthen the nunicipal services of
the project cities. Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient
coordination through the provincial Governors' offices, but some delays in
approval of contracts by the Ministry of Finance have occurred.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project would include the construction of two regional
water supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply
facilities in about 32 small towns scattered throughout Morocco. It would
also provide revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income
households, equipment, technical assistance, training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Not yet effective. Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project would
also focus on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion. BNDE's
financial performance has recently deteriorated and a remedial action program
is being prepared for agreement with the Bank prior to effectiveness.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Not yet effective. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The project comprises (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project: US$29.0 million of March 5, 1982. Not yet
effective. Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project consists of interrelated forestry, range and cropping
land development to bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, on about 600 ha. in central Morocco, as well as to raise
income and employment among the target population.



- 37 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 1 page
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key events
a)  Time taken by country to                       17 months (October
prepare project                                1979-February 1981)
b)  Preparation by:                                Ministry of Education (MOE)
c)  Project first identified by                    March 1979
the Bank
d)  Appraisal Mission                              May 1980
e)  Negotiations                                   March 1982
f)  Planned date of effectiveness                  August 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
a) Establishment of the system for distribution, storage and maintenance of
learning aids for selected primary schools by January 1, 1983 and evaluation
of the system by January 1, 1986 (para. 50).
b) Recruitment of consultants for MOE's practical educational activities unit
and the teacher training institutes; submission of the program and candidates
for fellowships; and recruitment of the teacher training institute staff, by
January 1, 1983 (paras. 51 and 53).
c)  Submission of the draft teacher training programs for review and comments
to the Bank by September 1, 1984 (para. 53).
d) Maintenance of the current staffing level of the Project Implementaton
Unit (PIU); extension of the PIU senior architect's contract to June 30, 1987;
and recruitment of senior engineering consultants by January 1, 1983
(para. 55).



4 v5*                                                                                                                                  {



YOKrAyAS5 SPAN       h       ,I ALY CRE1ECS TURKEY                                                                                                 IS           AN,         0        --0          <           ;       00R (;~ u/$Dr 16219
I ' 1/                                                                                                                      Med,' O)r|  n  aD AA                    .:
TUNISIA              >6-                                                                                                      S-YT3A TYM'TAAN ~
MOROC(0                     .I    D                                       SeOFndAry MOAdS                                                              TA 'D  ;r14
FIFTH~~~~A EDUCATIO  POET-kY--l   4      -9   \
*~~ ~ ~~~~ ~       ~     ~     ~ rn S  ASIA  ;R SF  TrACk                                                                 ,A  S/
C      r   RY I T Sc   SOP AARY                                                                                           ITT  ITYAA 5A TTTYIA IuAY  I                     IT    oJ<
102  I ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ pol.y                                                                          IA) AR
14451  ISIS~~~~~~~~~~. tj~
YAK YYT.RAA.''              T-, AT                                           e,, lAN                                                                            0y Ifth, o-.
PoT l   SAT'                              Sr NITr SAYe2A (WeSTern |AhAr-.               AS.h- (WtIAAITR AA1                                                                                    2d-Ey
&      Teti he, T'hin,,g 1-iftl.g                         3 -                                        'WQ/ AI
,.21~ ~     ~ ~ ,mr Schools (40\
r                      -24-                                             7)'"                                     i'     |                                                     j                              \                                         I         \d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 510    V~r~~AAITA
C A /1M A  UR YI ST A                                     N           I1A          .                                                               5  AlTS
20`~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~           ~            0
M  A  U  R   I T  A  N  I A
t~~~~~~~~~ /                                                      1.8.3t ag 
|      1  Gu., f:Noodbqb2u  ,                             llAo 4Ro  ?FA5T|KSKTIA_



