OFFIn,AL ~     LOAN NUMBER 2149 OR
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Education Project)
between
KINGDOki OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
-      AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated       IV                        , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2149 MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            ^^4LQ/     'b    , 1982, between
KINGDOM  OF  MOROCCO   (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Project Unit"
means the Project Unit established within the Borrower's Ministry
responsible for national education pursuant to Section 3.0.3 (a)
of the Development Credit Agreement (Second Education Project) of
August 18, 1971, between the Borrower and the International
Development Association.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later dt-ce.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to seven hundred
thirty-eight thousand nine hundred sixteen dollars ($738,916).
The fee shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the
Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have
received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
aid pay to itself the amount required for the full payment of the
fee in the currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as


﻿-3-
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall, until the Project is completed,
maintain and operate the Project Unit (including its equipment
Sub-Unit) with such powers, functions, staff and facilities as
shall be required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
January 1, 1983, or such later date as may be agreed with the
Bank, employ educational experts to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of Part D (1) (a) of the Project; (ii) not later
than January 1, 1983, or such later date as may be agreed with
the Bank, employ educational experts to assist the Borrower in
the carrying out of Part D (1) (c) of the Project; (iii) employ,
as and when needed, consultants to assist in the carrying out of
Part D (3) of the Project; and (iv) cause the Project Unit to
employ a senior architect and senior engineers by July 1, 1985,
and January 1, 1983, respectively, or by such later dates as the
Bank may agree, to assist in the carrying out of Part D (2) of
the Project.
(b) The experts included in paragraph (a) of this
Section shall have qualifications, experience and shall be
selected and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank in accordance with the principles and procedures described
in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1983, or
such later date as the Bank may agree, submit to the Bank for
approval a list of candidates, including the candidates'
qualifications, study programs, places of study and duration of
studies, for all fellowships included in Part D (1) (b) and (c)
of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish, by Janu-
ary 1, 1983, or such later date as the Bank may agree, a system
satisfactory to the Bank for the distribution, storage and
maintenance of the educational teaching and learning aids
included in Part B of the Project; and
(b) the Borrower shall submit to the Bank, by January 1,
1986, or such later date as the Bank may agree, a report satis-
factory to the Bank on the implementation of the system for the


﻿-4-
distribution, storage and maintenance of the educational teaching
and learning aids included in Part B of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for
approval the job descriptions for the teacher training staff to
be assigned to the institutes included in Part C of the Project
and shall recruit by January 1, 1983, or such later date as the
Bank may agree, said staff on the basis of the approved job
descriptions.
(b) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for review and
comment by September 1, 1984, or such later date as the Bank may
agree the draft teacher training programs referred to in Part D
(1) (a) of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1983, or such later
date as the Bank may agree, submit to the Bank for approval the
draft tender documents for the equipment to be procured for the
institutes included in Part C of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Project Unit to
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the


﻿S 5 -
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in -he Project to examine the gcocs
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant reccrds
and docaments; and (iii) shall -urnish or cause the Project Unit
to furnish to the Bank ai regular intervals, and at le;,t ery
six months, all such infcrmation as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan atd the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare, or cause the Project
Unit to prepare, and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01 (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have oriority


﻿- 6 -
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor or such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by Banque du Maroc or any institution performing the func-
tions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or simi-
lar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02 The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to
maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to:
(i) have the accounts referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by the Borrower's
Ministry responsible for finance; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as


﻿-7-
soon as available but in any case not later than six months after
the end of such year, (A) certified copies of the Project Unit's
accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by such Ministry, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.04. The Bcrrower shall, without any limitation or
restriction to the provisions of Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 and
3.05 of this Agreement, cause the institutions included in Parts
A, B and C of the Project: (i) to be operated and maintained in
conformity with appropriate administrative and educational
policies and practices and with due regard to economy; and (ii)
to be staffed in a timely fashion and in adequate numbers with
teachers,  instructors   and  administrators   with  appropriate
qualifications and experience.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date F      47// &  , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco


﻿-8-
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINISTERE FINANCES                 31936 M
Rabat, Morocco
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
respresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEV'LOPMENT
By          /, 4        ~    ~'f
Regional Vice President
Europ   Mi dle East and North Africa


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expresszd in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works              24,700,000          42%
(2) Equipment and            14,400,000          100% of foreign
furniture                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
and 85% of
local expen-
ditures for
it, s procured
locally off-
the-shelf
(3) Engineering                 500,000          18%
services
(4) Technical assistance:
(i) expert services       2,700,000         80%
(ii) fellowships            900,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(iii) preinvest-            2,900,000         80%
ment studies
under Part D
(3) of the
Project


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Fee                          738,916          Amount due
(6) Unallocated                3,161,084
TOTAL          50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to


﻿- 11 -
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in -Taat Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank    shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of, and provision of furniture and equipment
for, forty (40) rural primary schools together with teachers
housing at locations agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank.
Part B:
Provision of educational teaching and learning aids for
seven hundred (700) existing primary schools selected in
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part C:
Construction of, and provision of furniture and equipment
for, four (4) senior secondary teacher training institutes
at Casablanca, Fes, Agadir and Marrakech, together with
construction of, and provision for furniture and equipment
for, boarding facilities for enrolled students at such
teacher institutes and construction and equipping of housing
for resident staff.
Part D:
(1)  (a) Preparation   of  teacher   training  programs  for  the
teacher training institutes included in Part C of the
Project and assistance in the training of future
teachers through the provision of two hundred twelve
(212) man/months of expert services;
(b)  training  of  experienced   secondary  school  teachers
selected to become teacher trainers at the teacher
training institutes included in Part C of the Project
through the provision of three hundred sixty (360)
man/months of fellowships to enable said teachers to
undertake    post-graduate    study    in   specialized
pedagogical fields related to the needs of said teacher
training institutes; and


﻿- 13 -
(c) promotion of manual activities in primary education
through the provision of twelve (12) man/months of
expert services, of nine (9) man/months of fellowships
to staff of the Borrower's Minist-v responsible for
national education, and of short t     -ning courses for
primary school teachers.
(2) Strengthening of the Project Unit through the provision of
twenty-four (24) man/months of the services of a senior
architect to the Project Unit, of thirty-six (36) man/months
of services of senior engineers in regard of equipment to be
procured under Parts A, B and C of the Project, and of short
training courses and short-term fellowships to selected
Project Unit staff.
(3) Preparation of architectural, engineering and educational
studies, and of design work and tender documents related to
the preparation of future education projects through the
provision of consultant services.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 1, 1987.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1987
through   January 15, 1999                 1, 925,000
On July 15, 1999                                1,875,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                               10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              11.60%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procureneit
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   Furniture and equipment shall be grouped, to the extent
possible, to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be.classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids   offering   goods manufactured   in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 18 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and furniture estimated to cost
$200,000 equivalent or less each may be awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Bank provided that the aggregate cost of all
contracts so awarded shall not exceed $1,500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, and all
contracts for equipment and furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 19 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 5    L   day of A&IL , 198.
FOR SECRETARY


