Report No. PID8773
Project Name                     Eritrea-Cultural Assets Rehabilitation (@)
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Non-Sector Specific
Project ID                       ERPE58724
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF ERITREA
Implementing Agency
Address
Cultural Heritage Secretariat,
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 6513, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Naigzy Gebremehdin
Tel: 291-1-122059
Fax: 291-1-123691
Email: kersy@eol.com.er
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 3, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 14, 2000
Projected Board Date             July 1, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Eritrea is the site of some of the oldest human settlement in Africa.
Though the beginning of recorded Eritrean history dates to the accounts of
trade with its Red Sea ports from around the first century AD, relatively
recent discoveries have shown that it has a rich prehistory as well. Early
Christian influences date to around 400 AD, Islamic influences followed
several hundred years later, and these have had a profound impact on
Eritrean culture and tradition. A rich civilization flourished around
Adulis until the 5th century AD which was an amalgam of indigenous culture
and external influences, notably from Southern Arabia. Massawa and the
Dahlak islands were inhabited by Muslim communities from the early 10th
century, and Turkish influences were entrenched, particularly on the
coastal strip, by the 16th century. More recent Egyptian control was
followed by Italian colonization, in the 1890s, and then by British
administrative rule after-World War II. Federation with Ethiopia, and then
Annexation, lasted another four decades until independence in
1993.Evidence of Eritrea's rich past is found not only in ancient
monuments, cities, and prehistoric sites, but also in the work of
traditional artisans who have long contributed to its material culture by
producing leatherwork, jewelry, woodwork, and pottery. Rich oral
traditions have also contributed to the life of the community,
strengthening ties to the past -- and enriching the life of the present.
Much of this important heritage was virtually ignored during previous
regimes, and remains of archaeological sites, marketplaces, and historical
and religious structures have in many instances been forgotten. Building
and crafts skills, healing traditions, and language skills are similarly
being lost with time. Paradoxically, a strong emphasis on literacy in the
educational system has undermined the traditions of oral poets --



dependent on a system of memory and recitation which is not captured in
written texts. Ancient cities, such as at Qohaito and Sembel, have been
slowly disassembled by people in nearby villages who quarry these sites
for cut building stones. More recent colonial influences in Asmara and
other cities have left a remarkable collection of architectural styles
which is unique in Africa, and this too is under threat as new development
crowds out the older parts of the urban fabric. Until recently few of
Eritrea's historic sites have been managed with the view that they have
much to offer to the national, regional, and local economies.Concern for
the preservation of its cultural assets has been a major preoccupation in
Eritrea, both during the period of the armed struggle and after
independence. Activities which are already underway attest to a keen level
of interest among a diverse set of actors. The Research and Documentation
Center (RDC), originally established during the independence war, holds an
exhaustive collection of material from the war and seeks to expand its
collection to cover the colonial and pre-colonial period. The History
Project (implemented under the auspices of the PFDJ) is documenting the
oral and written history of Eritrea. Local interests are seeking
increasingly to protect historic Asmara's rich collection of modernist and
rationalist architecture. The Ministry of Tourism has prepared a National
Tourism Development Program which outlines a strategy for capitalizing on
the country's cultural assets. Other institutions, such as the National
Museum, the University of Asmara, and the Ministry of Education, are
similarly struggling to establish programs in their areas of expertise.
The level of progress made in these individual activities underscores a
commitment, both on the part of the Government as well as in civil
society, to accord the management and rehabilitation of cultural assets a
place of prominence in Eritrea's development agenda.In 1999, Government
created a multi-sectoral and high level Steering Committee on Cultural
Heritage under the authority of the Ministry of Finance to begin to
coordinate responsibilities and to develop a strategy for cultural asset
management activities across institutions. The Steering Committee has
prepared a series of policy notes which address national concerns such as
the preservation of historic architecture, archeological sites and
museums, Eritrean historical documents, folklore, and oral history. These
policy notes articulate progress made to date and propose activities to
address cultural asset management in each of these areas. Concurrently,
draft legislation is being prepared to address issues such as historical
preservation, the conservation of cultural sites, and the establishment of
a national archive. The Steering Committee remains the locus of much
strategic thinking about the direction of Government's approach to
cultural asset conservation and management.
2. Objectives
As the Government of Eritrea begins the process of rebuilding its economy
after the close of the conflict with Ethiopia, it is seeking Bank support
with a Learning and Innovation Loan to assist it in testing out and
developing the means for more fully integrating the conservation and
management of its cultural assets into local and national economic
development. The request comes coincident with the progress which is
being made in launching post-conflict activities which are oriented toward
economic reconstruction and recovery, and other social and economic
programs with poverty reduction objectives.The decision to process it as a
LIL is because of strong capacity building elements, the pilot nature of
individual components for which viable technical, financial, and social
- 2 -



solutions need to be tested and developed, and the need for
experimentation with different partnership arrangements with respect to
the involvement of government, communities, local institutions, and groups
of artisans, craftsmen and builders.The project would provide support for
testing several approaches, on a pilot basis, for integrating poverty
reduction and growth objectives with the conservation and rehabilitation
of the country's cultural assets, focusing in part on the unique
architectural heritage of Asmara and other urban centers, as well as on
selected historic sites, and on its rich written, oral, and artistic
traditions. The project would work closely with communities in historic
areas, and in urban sites, to revitalize the life of communities through
conservation. The project would also strengthen the management of public
records both to contribute to the development of a historiography of
Eritrea while improving the efficiency of the public sector. By providing
support for building skills development, and for small- and medium-size
building enterprises, the project would also contribute to the
revitalization of economic activity in this reconstruction period. It
would support job creation and skills development through a modest civil
works programs, and would lay important groundwork for capitalizing on
local tourism potential (which had started to blossom before the
conflict).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
The project comprises four components:
a) Site planning and conservation. This component will focus on
developing pilot community-based conservation of selected historic sites,
in particular around Qohaito and Asmara which are suffering from severe
degradation as a result of natural and human forces. The component will
also introduce community-based conservation approaches to assist in the
management of cultural assets created during the independence struggle
prior to 1991 (underground theaters, clinics, libraries and other
structures, including trenches and fortifications.)
This component will also seek to strengthen the National Museums of
Eritrea by upgrading and improving its facilities and establishing
linkages through specialized programs between the National Museum and
educational institutions, on a pilot basis, in Asmara. It is expected that
this activity will contribute to educational curriculum development.
b) Conserving the built environment. This component will focus, in
selected pilot areas, on integrating poverty reduction and growth
objectives with the conservation of the unique architectural heritage of
Asmara, and for developing future interventions in Massawa and other
sites. The component is expected to strengthen the institutional and legal
framework for protecting and conserving historically and architecturally
important buildings, neighborhoods, and streets, particularly by focusing
on supporting enterprise development and economic growth under a variety
of innovative arrangements, for example through custodial assignments and
private-public partnerships; improving the delivery of community and
public services, by focusing on the conservation and use of community
assets and public spaces in a manner which serves the poorest groups; and
through training and capacity building to improve the institutional,
-3 -



regulatory, and technical capacity of public institutions to manage the
challenge of combining urban conservation and development objectives.
In addition to focusing on growth objectives, the project will provide
resources to develop the mechanisms for listing and protecting historic
buildings from unwarranted changes and modifications; for restoring
modified buildings to their original form and shape; and for assessing the
nature of the 'built heritage' in other parts of Eritrea, for example, in
Massawa, Debre Bizen, Decamhare, and Keren, inter-alia by carrying out
detailed surveys and assessments of priority buildings, structures, and
public spaces for conservation, and by making selected emergency
investments in stabilizing historic structures or in otherwise improving
the stability and integrity of important buildings.
c) Supporting living cultures. This component will provide support for
the development of language and literature, and for strengthening
Eritrea's rich oral traditions, in particular poetry and storytelling, by
providing performance opportunities for oral poets and storytellers, by
providing training and building capacity in field methods for the
collection of oral literature, and by launching pilot field studies to
document and record threatened oral traditions. The component will also
provide the resources to improve the collection of oral histories and to
strengthen the capacity for preparing an Eritrean historiography. It is
expected that these activities will be linked to educational curriculum
development and to improving literacy.
d) Documentation and information management. This component will provide
support which will contribute to the development of a system of management
of national and regional archives. The focus in the first instance will
be to provide training, and capacity building support for the eventual
establishment of a National Archive, including equipment and information
management technologies to assist in created a user-friendly system of
information retrieval. The component will also provide support for
improving the management of other public and private archives, in
particular the collection at the Pavoni Center, and Asmara's Municipal
building plan records.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               5.74
6. Implementation
Project management would be the responsibility of the Interim Steering
Committee on Cultural Heritage, which has been established under the
auspices of the Ministry of Finance. Nine institutions are currently
represented on the ISC: the Research and Documentation Center, the
University of Asmara, the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ),
the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of
Finance, the Office of the President, and the Municipalities of Asmara and
Massawa. Other stakeholders which will be engaged in project preparation
and implementation include the Eritrean Society for Historical
Architecture, the Eritrean Association of Architects and Engineers, the
Eritrean Association of Artists, the Pavoni Center (a private archive),
local government officials, and representatives from religious
organizations, including the Orthodox Church, the Moslem Council, and the
- 4 -



Catholic Patriarchal Office.
7. Sustainability
The project would be designed as a pilot, learning, operation with a
strong monitoring and evaluation component. The intention would be to put
in place a mechanism for learning from the project's experience in order
to 'scale-up' into an eventual project with national coverage.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has been providing support for developing the framework for
cultural heritage management through an Institutional Development Fund
grant. This activity has provided support for developing policies and
strategies towards the conservation of cultural assets, and has provided
the framework for moving forward with these investments.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are not expected to be any significant
negative environmental impacts of the project. Possible minor impacts may
be associated with site conservation activities, but these are expected to
be negligible, and in any event are to be carried out under the immediate
supervision of the National Museums of Eritrea. The project has also been
reviewed by the Department of Environment of the Ministry of Lands, Water
and Environment, which has also classified the project as a Category C
project (consistent with the National Guidelines for Environmental Impact
Assessment), and has reviewed and commented upon the Project
Implementation Plan.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Peter A. Dewees
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3959
Fax: 202-614-0959
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the Infoshop during the week ending
January 5, 2001.
-5-



