Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21138-ER
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
STATE OF ERITREA
FOR A
CULTURAL ASSETS REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 29, 2001
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 14, 2000)
Currency Unit = Nakfa
I Nakfa = US$0.10
US$1.00 = Nakfa 9.775
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARP         Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
FMS          Financial Management Specialist
GOE          Govenmment of Eritrea
GPN          General Procurement Notice
IA           Implementing Agency
IAPSO        Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
ICCROM       Center for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Heritage
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          Intemational Development Association
IDF          Institutional Development Fund
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
NME          National Museums of Eritrea
OMR          Output Monitoring Report
PEC          Procurement Evaluation Committee
PFDJ         People's Front for Democracy and Justice
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMR          Project Management Report
RDC          Research and Documentation Center
SA           Special Account
SBD          Standard Bidding Documents
SOE          Statement of Expenses
SPN          Specific Procurement Notice
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
TTL          Task Team Leader
U NDB        United Nations Development Business
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:    Roger C. Sullivan
Task Team Leader:    Peter A. Dewees



ERITREA
CULTURAL ASSETS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                       6
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   6
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                               8
D. Project Rationale
([his section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             9
2. Financial                                                                            9
3. Technical                                                                            9
4. Institutional                                                                       10
5. Environmental                                                                       12
6. Social                                                                              13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      14
2. Critical risks                                                                      15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      16
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             16
2. Other                                                                               16



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summaiy                                                          18
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        39
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      42
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    48
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           53
MAP(S)
IBRD 31462



ERITREA
Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTES
Date: May 29, 2001                                 Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees
Country Manager/Director: Oey Astra Meesook        Sector Manager: Roger C. Sullivan
Project ID: P058724                                Sector(s): MY - Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Social Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
1 Loan      [X] Credit      ] ] Grant   [1 Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m): Source:,:                              Local         Foreign         Total:
BORROWER                                                         0.30            0.00          0.30
IDA                                                              2.40            2.60          5.00
OTHER FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                             0.00            0.10          0.10
Total:                                                           2.70            2.70          5.40
Borrower: STATE OF ERITREA
Responsible agency:
Cultural Heritage Secretariat, Ministry of Finance
Address: P.O. Box 6513, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Naigzy Gebremedhin
Tel: 291-1-122059                 Fax: 291-1-123691                 Email: qrsi@gemel.com.er
Other Agency(ies):
National Museums of Eritrea
Address: P.O. Box 5284, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Dr. Yoseph Libsikel
Tel: 291-1-119902               Fax: 291-1-126368                 Email: keskese@eol.com.er
Cultural Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Education
Address: P.O. Box 251, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Solomon Tsehaye
Tel: 291-1-118980              Fax: 291-1-121980                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
-Y     -     --      i  -2002-   2003  t   2004-
Annual    1.70         1.80       1.50
Cumulative    1.70        3.50       5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2001  Expected closing date:  01/31/2005
>S PAD FomR.    M20  



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex ])
As the Government of Eritrea begins the process of rebuilding its economy after the close of the conflict
with Ethiopia, it is seeking Bank support with a Leaming and Innovation Loan to assist it in testing out and
developing the means for more fully integrating the conservation and management of cultural assets into
local and national economic development. The project is coincident with progress which is being made in
launching post-conflict activities which are oriented toward economic reconstruction and recovery, and
other social and economic programs with poverty reduction objectives.
The decision to process it as a LIL is because of strong capacity building elements, the pilot nature of
individual components for which viable technical, financial, and social solutions need to be tested and
developed, and the need for experimentation with different growth-oriented partnership arrangements with
respect to the involvement of the private sector, government, communities, local institutions, and groups of
artisans, craftsmen and builders.
The project would provide support for testing several approaches, on a pilot basis, for integrating poverty
reduction and growth objectives with the conservation and rehabilitation of the country's cultural assets,
focusing in part on the unique architectural heritage of Asmara and other urban centers, as well as on
selected historic sites, and on its rich written, oral, and artistic traditions. The project would work closely
with communities in historic areas, and in urban sites, to revitalize the economic and cultural life of
communities through conservation. The project would also strengthen the management of public records
both to contribute to the development of a historiography of Eritrea while improving the efficiency of the
public sector. By providing support for building skills development, and for small- and medium-size
building enterprises, the project would also contribute to the revitalization of economic activity in this
reconstruction period. It would support job creation and skills development through a modest civil works
programs, and would lay important groundwork for capitalizing on local tourism potential (which had
started to blossom before the conflict).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Ainex 1)
At the national level, progress in meeting the project's development objectives will be assessed by focusing
on and disseminating good practices for cultural asset conservation and management activities piloted by
the project, and on the effectiveness of the coordinating mechanism -- the Steering Committee on Cultural
Heritage -- in catalyzing action, setting priorities, and mobilizing resources for accomplishing national
goals with regard to cultural asset management. The following indicators would serve as performiance
benchmarks for the proposed LIL.
1.     Site Planning and Conservation
*   Site inventories, plans, and conservation activities, with a strong community-based growth and
development orientation, are developed and under implementation at pilot sites. An evaluation
mechanism is in place to ensure that the lessons from these pilots are captured in the design of future
interventions. The results from these evaluations are effectively disseminated.
*   The National Museum is better able to deliver on its mandate of education, research, and exhibition,
with trained staff and management, and improved facilities.
- 2-



2.     Conserving the Built Environment
*   A growth-oriented planning process for urban architectural management and conservation is underway,
and the capacity to carry out planning is improved. As part of the planning process, guidelines for
architectural management and conservation are developed and disseminated.
*   A Conservation fund is under implementation, designed to stimulate the private sector and to engage
communities in urban architectural conservation, and is assessed for its effectiveness and sustainability.
Results of the assessment are disseminated.
*   Capacity for undertaking building conservation is improved in the building trades. Low income groups
are targeted for training in specialized building trades related to conservation.
*   Conservation of priority and targeted sites in Asmara and Massawa is completed, with a particular
emphasis on improving community access to public services and spaces.
3.     Supporting Living Cultures
.   Traditions of oral literature are strengthened. Programs of training in oral history and oral literature
and traditions are in place, and the management of information about oral history and literature is
improved.
*   Oral histories of various periods (i.e. pre colonial, Italian, British and Federal, and Ethiopian
annexation and armed struggle, 1961-1991) are collected, disseminated, and incorporated into the
educational curricula.
4.    Documentation and Information Management
*   The capacity for archives and records management is improved.
-   Investments in improved records management technologies are made and are resulting in better records
conservation.
i   Asmara municipal building records are made more accessible through improved management.
- Inventory of arts and manuscripts found in religious institutes (both Christian and Muslim) is
undertaken, and appropriate storage facilities for safe keeping of parchments and other manuscripts is
provided to selected monasteries.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-184            Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/22/2000
The Interim Support Strategy for Eritrea was discussed by the Board in conjunction with its review of the
Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction Program in mid-November, 2000. The Interim Support Strategy
reviewed implementation of the Bank's assistance strategy to Eritrea prior to the outbreak of hostilities with
Ethiopia, and articulated a program of future Bank support for meeting near-termn emergency humanitarian
needs, for reconstruction, and for Eritrea's wider economic recovery and development efforts. The ISS
anticipated that, in addition to supporting reconstruction and recovery, future lending would focus on
community-based development and education (among other things) complemented by activities to revive the
private sector which would be necessary to generate growth and employment. It is within this framework
the Cultural Asset Rehabilitation Project has been prepared.
- 3-



Bank support for cultural asset conservation and management in Eritrea is an outcome of longer term
discussions with Government which predate the recent conflict. Consistent with the previous CAS's
objective of responding to Government's leadership in policy and program development, the Bank first
agreed to consider providing support to the sector, at Govemment's request, in mid-1998. In order to
strengthen the more general institutional framework for addressing the management of cultural assets, an
Institutional Development Fund grant was approved the following year. Despite the conflict, performance
of the IDF-funded activity has been good. The design and focus of the LIL is very much seen to be an
outcome of the lessons learned as a result of the IDF-funded project, which include a much greater
awareness of the need to integrate economic growth and development objectives with investments in
cultural asset management, the need to focus on local development priorities which may complement or
otherwise be affected by interventions which seek to conserve cultural assets, and the need to integrate
longer term sustainable development objectives into an investment program.
More generally, the approach proposed in this LIL is consistent with the development objectives identified
in the previous CAS related to capacity building, increasing sources of growth and human resource
development.
*   Capacity building will be the focus of training activities associated with introducing community-based
conservation approaches to site planning and conservation in selected pilot sites, traditional building
skills development activities associated with the conservation of the built environment, as well as of
activities associated with the establishment of national archives.
*   The project will provide opportunities for increasing sources of growth by bringing about
improvements in the planning and conservation of urban and historic sites in a manner which increases
their value for the tourist industry and which improves the context for both urban and rural growth
around these sites.
*   Aside from the more general idea that the culture of a country is among the most important components
necessary for its social development, human resource development will be the particular emphasis of
linkages established through specialized programs between the National Museum and educational
institutions. The project will also provide support for the development of the arts, language, and
literature through a range of activities.
Identification of the potential for possible Bank investment in the sector took place before the outbreak of
the conflict with Ethiopia, and plans for public investment in cultural asset conservation and management
proceeded. The fact that Govemment has sought quickly to return to this agenda following the closure of
the conflict suggests that it views the sector with keen interest, as a component of its wider and longer-term
national development strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Eritrea is the site of some of the oldest human settlement in Africa. Though the beginning of recorded
Eritrean history dates to the accounts of trade with its Red Sea ports from around the first century AD,
relatively recent discoveries have shown that it has a rich prehistory as well. Early Christian influences date
to around 400 AD, Islamic influences followed several hundred years later, and these have had a profound
impact on Eritrean culture and tradition. A rich civilization flourished around Adulis until the 5th century
AD which was an amalgam of indigenous culture and external influences, notably from Southern Arabia.
Massawa and the Dahlak islands were inhabited by Muslim communities from the early 10th century, and
- 4 -



Turkish influences were entrenched, particularly on the coastal strip, by the 16th century. More recent
Egyptian control was followed by Italian colonization, in the 1890s, and then by British administrative rule
after-World War II. Federation with Ethiopia, and then Annexation, lasted another four decades until
independence in 1993.
Evidence of Eritrea's rich past is found not only in ancient monuments, cities, and prehistoric sites, but also
in the work of traditional artisans who have long contributed to its material culture by producing
leatherwork, jewelry, woodwork, and pottery. Rich oral traditions have also contributed to the life of the
community, strengthening ties to the past -- and enriching the life of the present. Much of this important
heritage was virtually ignored during previous regimes, and remains of archaeological sites, marketplaces,
and historical and religious structures have in many instances been forgotten. Building and crafts skills,
healing traditions, and language skills are similarly being lost with time. Paradoxically, a strong emphasis
on literacy in the educational system has undermined the traditions of oral poets - dependent on a system
of memory and recitation which is not captured in written texts. Ancient cities, such as at Qohaito and
Sembel, have been slowly disassembled by people in nearby villages who quarry these sites for cut building
stones. More recent colonial influences in Asmara and other cities have left a remarkable collection of
architectural styles which is unique in Africa, and this too is under threat as new development crowds out
the older parts of the urban fabric. Until recently few of Eitrea'g historic sites have been managed with te
view that they have much to offer to the national, regional, and local economies.
Concern for the preservation of its cultural assets has been a major preoccupation in Eritrea, both during
the period of the armed struggle and after independence. Activities which are already underway attest to a
keen level of interest among a diverse set of actors. The Research and Documentation Center (RDC),
originally established during the independence war, holds an exhaustive collection of recent material and
seeks to expand its collection to cover the colonial and pre-colonial period. The History Project
(implemented under the auspices of the PFDJ) is documenting the oral and written history of Eritrea. Local
interests are seeking increasingly to protect historic Asmara's rich collection of modemist and rationalist
architecture. The Ministry of Tourism has prepared a National Tourism Development Program which
outlines a strategy for capitalizing on the country's cultural assets. Other institutions, such as the National
Museum, the University of Asmara, and the Ministry of Education, are similarly struggling to establish
programs in their areas of expertise with strong links to education and local development initiatives. The
level of progress made in these individual activities underscores a commitment, both on the part of the
Government as well as in civil society, to accord the management and rehabilitation of cultural assets a
place of prominence in Eritrea's development agenda.
In 1999, Government created a multi-sectoral and high level Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage
under the authority of the Ministry of Finance to begin to coordinate responsibilities and to develop a
strategy for cultural asset management activities across institutions. The Steering Committee has prepared
a series of policy notes which address national concerns such as the preservation of historic architecture,
archeological sites and museums, Eritrean historical documents, folklore, and oral history. These policy
notes articulate progress made to date and propose activities to address cultural asset management in each
of these areas. Concurrently, draft legislation is being prepared to address issues such as historical
preservation, the conservation of cultural sites, and the establishment of a national archive. The Steering
Committee remains the locus of much strategic thinking about the direction of Government's approach to
cultural asset conservation and management.
-5 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will provide resources to pilot the development of community-based site planning and
conservation initiatives in selected priority sites and to build national, regional, and local capacity for site
planning and conservafion in a way which integrates economic growth opportunities with cultural site
management. The project will also provide opportunities to develop partnerships between the public and
private sectors, with communities, and with other local institutions, for the adaptive re-use of
architecturally significant buildings and public spaces in Asmara and Massawa. The project will test out
approaches for supporting living cultures, such as oral poetry, and other art and building traditions, and
will pilot work on the development of oral histories about Eritrea's recent past. Finally, archives
management will provide an increased ability to access the historical record. Increased accessibility to
Government and municipal records will help to improve the efficiency of public sector management.
The creation of a multi-stakeholder steering committee to oversee project implementation, the scope for
partnerships with national groups and international NGOs and other stakeholders, and the need to
collaborate closely with the private sector and communities on site management and development
initiatives, and on the conservation of the built environrnent, will provide opportunities to test out
alternative approaches toward institutional collaboration, and will promote innovative opportunities for
institutional learning.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[ Economic       1 Technical      Z Social         Z Participation
n Financial      Z Institutional  O Environmental L Other
With regard to technical innovation, it is anticipated that LIL resources will be used to test out different
approaches to the conservation of architecturally significant buildings and historic sites. In addition, the
use of new technologies for recording historic documents and for inventorying cultural assets will be tested
by the project. The development of improved records management systems, with respect to the
establishment of local and national archives, will be piloted by the project.
Key social innovations in site conservation and management will test approaches to more fully involving
communities in the conservation of threatened, historically important sites, particularly in Qohaito and
Nakfa -- two sites which are being slowly dismantled by site-adjacent communities who use building
material quarried from older structures. Activities in these areas will focus also on participation of
communities in site conservation, as will activities associated with the conservation of architecturally
significant buildings in Asmara and Massawa.
Finally, the project will explore the potential for multiple institutional arrangements for cultural asset
management, building on important synergies and interests amongst varied institutional stakeholders,
including the culture, tourism, urban, and education sectors.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises four components:
a)     Site planning and conservation. This component will focus on developing pilot community-based
and growth oriented conservation activities at selected historic sites, in particular around Qohaito
- 6 -



and Asmara which are suffering from severe degradation as a result of natural and human forces.
The component will also introduce community-based conservation approaches to assist in the
management of cultural assets created during the independence struggle prior to 1991 (such as
underground theaters, clinics, libraries and other structures.)
This component will also seek to strengthen the National Museums of Eritrea by upgrading and
improving its facilities and establishing linkages through specialized programs between the
National Museum and educational institutions, on a pilot basis, in Asmara. It is expected that this
activity will contribute to educational curriculum development.
b)     Conserving the built environment. This component will focus, in selected pilot areas, on
integrating poverty reduction and growth objectives with the conservation of the unique
architectural heritage of Asmara, and for developing future interventions in Massawa and other
sites. The component is expected to strengthen the institutional and legal framework for protecting
and conserving historically and architecturally important buildings, neighborhoods, and streets,
particularly by focusing on supporting enterprise development and economic growth under a
variety of innovative arrangements, for example through custodial assignments and private-public
partnerships; improving the delivery of community and public services, by focusing on the
conservation and use of community assets and public spaces in a manner which serves the poorest
groups; and through training and capacity building to improve the institutional, regulatory, and
technical capacity of public institutions to manage the challenge of combining urban conservation
and development objectives.
In addition to focusing on growth objectives, the project will provide resources to develop the
mechanisms for listing and protecting historic buildings from unwarranted changes and
modifications; for restoring modified buildings to their original form and shape; and for assessing
the nature of the 'built heritage' in other parts of Efitrea, for example, in Massawa, Debre Bizen,
Decamhare, and Keren, inter-alia by carrying out detailed surveys and assessments of priority
buildings, structures, and public spaces for conservation, and by making selected emergency
investments in stabilizing historic structures or in othenvise improving the stability and integrity of
important buildings.
c)     Supporting living cultures. This component will provide support for the development of
language, literature, and history and for strengthening Eritrea's rich oral traditions, in particular
poetry and storytelling, by providing performance opportunities for oral poets and storytellers, by
providing training and building capacity in field methods for the collection of oral literature and
history, and by launching pilot field studies to document and record threatened oral traditions. It is
expected that these activities will be linked to educational curriculum development and to
improving literacy.
d)     Documentation and information management. This component will provide support which will
contribute to the development of a system of management of national and regional archives. The
focus in the first instance will be to provide training, and capacity building support for the eventual
establishment of a National Archive, including equipment and information management
technologies to assist in created a user-friendly system of information retrieval. The component
will also provide support for improving the management of other public and private archives, in
particular the collection at the Pavoni Center, and Asmara's Municipal building plan records.
- 7 -



Sector        Costs      %of  g if in= ng.. g .....
A. Site planning and conservation   Other Social         1.50      27.8        1.40      28.0
Protection
B. Conserving the built environment    Other Social      2.50      46.3       2.30       46.0
Protection
C. Supporting living cultures       Other Social         0.50        9.3      0.50       10.0
Protection
D. Documentation and information    Institutional        0.50        9.3      0.50       10.0
management                          Development
E. Coordination and management      Institutional        0.40        7.4      0.30        6.0
Development
Total Project Costs                    5.40      100.0       5.00     100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                      5.40      100.0      5.00      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project management would be the responsibility of the Secretariat of the Steering Committee on Cultural
Heritage, which has been established under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. Nine institutions are
currently represented on the Steering Committee: the Research and Documentation Center (RDC), the
National Museums of Eritrea (University of Asmara), the People's Front for Democracy and Justice
(PFDJ), the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the
President, and the Municipalities of Asmara and Massawa. Other stak-eholders which will be engaged in
project implementation include the Eritrean Society for Historical Architecture, the Eritrean Association of
Architects and Engineers, the Eritrean Association of Artists, the Pavoni Center (a private archive), the
Debre Bizen Committee, local government officials, and representatives from religious organizations,
including the Orthodox Church, the Moslem Council, and the Catholic Patriarchal Office.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The Secretariat of the Steering Committee will implement a systematic monitoring and reporting system,
focusing on both the outputs and outcomes of the project. The system will allow for an effective evaluation
of (i) the project's delivery mechanisms, implementation procedures, and institutional arrangements; (ii)
performance effectiveness, evaluated on the basis of the project's development objectives and the input,
output, outcome, and impact indicators identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1); and (iii) the
potential replicability of project activities on a wider scale. Progress towards project outcomes will be
evaluated during project supervision and during a Mid-Term review. The Mid-Term Review would
determnine the extent to which the project is performing against the objectives set for it, and would carry out
a preliminary assessment of the potential for wider scale replication. Preparation of an Implementation
Completion Report will be initiated by the Bank prior to the project's closing date, in conjunction with the
preparation of Government's own evaluation report. Monitoring and Evaluation will be the responsibility
of a M&E Officer, employed by the Secretariat.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
- 8 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
In the context considered here, cultural assets include both the material aspects of culture (for example,
historic sites and buildings, landscapes, and objects of particular historical, architectural, aesthetic, or
cultural significance) as well as non-material aspects such as social practices, symbolic forms of
expressions (for example, the arts, music, dance, oral traditions, literature, etc.), values and beliefs.
In light of the pilot nature of this project, only notional and qualitative economic analyses will be
undertaken a priori. The project is expected to generate a range of benefits associated with: a) experience
gained with various institutional partnership arrangements for cultural asset conservation; b) improved
planning and site interpretation to accommodate conservation needs and tourism interests in cultural sites;
c) growth and poverty reduction associated with the development of enterprises and the private sector to
support built heritage conservation; d) conservation of cultural assets which might otherwise have been
lost, for example, to theft or as a result of development; e) community involvement in cultural site
conservation and management; f) improved management of public records; and g) improved institutional
capacity to formulate and implement cultural asset management programs.
Cost-effectiveness was carefully considered during project design. As pilot operations, interventions under
all components are expected to be relatively small-scale and will seek to optimize the impacts of resource
use by developing partnership and possible co-financing arrangements with domestic and international
organizations such as Mrara Art Association, Mahber Fikri Sine-Tibeb, ICCROM, and UNESCO. Site
conservation activities are expected to use local building materials and labor intensive methods. There is a
very strong element of capacity building in the project design, which is intended to contribute to
longer-tenn sustainability.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Ainex 4)
[For LIL. to the extent applicable]
Because of the nature of the LIL, particularly its size and emphasis on testing and innovation, the monetary
and non-monetary benefits have not been analyzed in the comprehensive way normally associated with
more traditional Bank investment projects. As the LIL is a relatively uncomplicated pilot operation,
resources will be managed by the Secretariat of the Steering Committee. The project is expected also to
pilot the use of low-cost financial management software.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable'l
The need for technical studies associated with site conservation in project pilot sites will be identified
during the planning process. These studies might include activities related to archeological investigation,
building stabilization, drainage improvement, or archival studies. The scope for using advanced dating,
remote sensing, and conservation technology to enhance the planning and conservation process will also be
explored and developed for wider-spread application elsewhere in Eritrea. Conservation of the built
enviromnent will in part depend on strengthening traditional building skills. The Documentation and
Information Management component will also provide limited resources, through technical assistance, to
-9-



develop the use of enhanced documentation tools for records management.
4. Institutional:
As indicated in Section C.2, overall project oversite and program management will be the responsibility of
the Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage, which has been established under the auspices of the Ministry
of Finance. Nine institutions are currently represented on the Steering Committee: the Research and
Documentation Center (RDC), the University of Asmara (National Museums of Eritrea), the People's Front
for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ), the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of
Finance, the Office of the President, and the Municipalities of Asmara and Massawa. Other stakeholders
which may be engaged in implementation include the Eritrean Society for Historical Architecture, the
Eritrean Association of Architects and Engineers, the Eritrean Association of Artists, the Pavoni Center (a
private archive), the Debre Bizen Committee, local govemment officials, and representatives from religious
organizations, including the Orthodox Church, the Moslem Council, and the Catholic Patriarchal Office.
Day-to-day project management will be the responsibility of a Secretariat, which has been established to
manage the affairs of the Steering Committee. The responsibilities of the Secretariat are described in the
following section 4.2.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Working closely through the Steering Committee, and, in addition to the Secretariat of the Steering
Committee, there will be 3 Implementing agencies for the project. The primary agencies with project
implementation responsibilities are: the Research and Documentation Center (RDC), the National
Museums of Eritrea, and the Ministry of Education (Cultural Affairs Bureau). Their responsibilities, by
project component, are summarized in the Table below.
Implementing Responsibilities, by Project Component
Project Component                 Implementing Agency                Project Management Responsibility
1. Site Planning, Conservation, and  National Museums of Eritrea     Assistant Project Coordinator
Museum Development
2. Conserving the Built Environment   Secretariat to the Steering Committee    Assistant Project Coordinator
on Cultural Heritage
3. Supporting Living Culture      Ministry of Education, Bureau for  Assistant Project Coordinator
Culture
4. Documentation and Information  Research and Documentation Center    Assistant Project Coordinator
Management
5. Project Management           | Secretariat to the Steering Committee    Project Coordinator and the Steering
on Cultural Heritage               Committee on Cultural Heritage
Notes: It is envisaged that project management responsibilities will be shared by 2 Assistant Project Coordinators, who will
have responsibilities for all four project components. These may be existing staff from the Implementing Agencies.
The Implementing Agencies will have primary responsibility for ensuring that day-to-day project
management proceeds smoothly. They will work closely with the Secretariat, which will be responsible for
overall coordination, to ensure project objectives are being addressed, and that the impacts of project
investrnents are being appropriately monitored.
- 10-



4.2 Project management:
Because of the multiple institutions which are to be involved in project implementation the effective
coordination of project activities amongst implementing partners will be key. With this in mind,
Government has concluded that coordination and day-to-day project management responsibilities should
rest with a Secretariat of the Steering Committee, which reports to the Ministry of Finance.
The Secretariat, which has already been established, comprises a Chairman and Project Coordinator, an
Administrator/Procurement Specialist, an Accountant, and a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist. Terms
of Reference for these positions are included as Annex 8 to the Project Implementation Plan. It is envisaged
that the Project Coordinator will have primary responsibility for overall coordination and management. The
Administrator/Procurement Specialist and Accountant will be responsible for overall financial and
procurement management activities. Costs for Coordination and Management have been included in the
cost summary. It is assumed that all equipment and material requirements will be met from other project
components. The positions of Project Coordinator, Administrator/Procurement Specialist, and Accountant
have already been filled. The Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist will be recruited within 3 months of
project effectiveness.
In the interest of sustainability, existing staff may be assigned to take on project management
responsibilities, and staff may be recruited on a contractual basis only if absolutely essential. In any event,
staff with project coordination responsibilities must be well-trained and capable. The World Bank's
Resident Mission in Eritrea will work with staff from the Secretariat as needed to build its capacity for
program management, particularly with regard to procurement and accounting practice.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement financed under the project will be limited to recruitment of consultants services, office
equipment, a limited number of vehicles, some civil works, and incremental operating costs. The
Administrator/Procurement Specialist has been recruited by the Secretariat for the Steering Committee on
Cultural Heritage and is to be responsible for ensuring that procurement for works and goods is carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and January 1999).
Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997, and revised
September 1997 and January 1999).
A General Procurement Notice will be published in United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and
will include a description of required services or goods, the client agency, and the budgeted cost. This
notice will be updated every year during the execution of the projects until all contracts and assignments
have been procured. In the case of contracts which are expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent,
Specific Procurement Notices will be issued seeking expressions of interest through the national press.
To the extent possible, procurement arrangements have been designed to respond to the need for flexible
use of procurement methods, given the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. A detailed
Procurement Plan, based on the inputs identified in Project Implementation Plan will be prepared within 6
months after Credit effectiveness, and this will be revised annually during preparation of the Annual Work
Program and Budget. Whenever possible, procurement items will be consolidated into appropriately-scaled
contracting packages.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment has been completed and is in the Project Files.
- 1 1 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
A Financial Management Capacity Assessment has been carried out and is available in the Project Files.
This Assessment concluded that, while the Secretariat's financial management system is basically sound, it
is currently not capable of complying with Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Guidelines. The
following steps will need to be carried out before the Secretariat is able to meet LACI requirements:
* development of a Chart of Accounts, appropriate for the project;
*   development of a LACI compatible financial reporting format acceptable to the Bank;
*   preparation of a Financial Procedures manual.
Provided these steps are taken, and experience.is gained in working with LACI-format reporting
mechanisms, it is envisaged that the Secretariat should be LACI capable within 18 months from the date of
effectiveness. Once the Secretariat is assessed to be LACI capable, the Credit Agreement may be amended
to reflect that disbursements are to take place on the basis of Project Management Reports thereafter. In
this event, it envisaged that the project will adopt streamlined disbursement procedures once LACI
Guidelines have been met. The decision to adopt streamlined disbursement procedures will be made in
consultation with a Bank Financial Management Specialist who will:
* review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submissions, operation of the Special
Account, SOE submissions and documentation retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of
project management and accounting staff,
* ensure that the Special Account has been reconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
3 review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues;
* review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
an opinion on the reliability of project accounts.
Once the Secretariat is assessed to be LACI capable, the Credit Agreement will be amended to reflect that
disbursements are to take place on the basis of Project Management Reports thereafter.
It is envisaged that one Special Account, acceptable to IDA, will be established. The authorized allocation
of this accounts will be US$500,000. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account should be
submitted to IDA every month under normal circumstances, but in any event, not less frequently than once
every three months. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be filly documented to
IDA, except for expenditures for incremental operating costs, training, and for contracts with a value of
$50,000 or less for goods and equipment, $75,000 or less for civil works, and for consultant services under
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals for which reimbursements may be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation will be retained by the Secretariat and will
be available for inspection and review as requested by IDA Supervision Missions and by project auditors.
Five disbursement categories are envisaged: civil works, goods and equipment, consulting services and
training, grants, and incremental operating costs.
5. Environmental:                   Environtmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are not expected to be any significant negative environmental impacts of the project. Possible minor
impacts may be associated with site conservation activities, but these are expected to be negligible, and in
- 12-



any event are to be carried out under the immediate supervision of the National Museums of Eritrea. The
project has also been reviewed by the Department of Enviromnent of the Ministry of Lands, Water and
Environment, which has also classified the project as a Category C project (consistent with the National
Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment), and has reviewed and commented upon the Project
Implementation Plan.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n/a
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
n/a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n/a
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
n/a
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A key element of activities associated with site conservation, and with the conservation of the built heritage,
relates to the idea of developing a sense of stewardship for these assets. Both of these components are
expected to involve close work at the community level, to find ways of jointly managing cultural assets.
This may involve benefit sharing activities (especially when tourism potential can be exploited) or making
modest investments in sanitation and water supply to improve the local environment around threatened sites
and buildings. A pilot inventory of buildings within the historic perimeter of Asmara, for example, focused
on service delivery, and how this might be improved through modest investments.
The key social outcomes that can be expected to come from the project would be the development of:
*  bonding social capital (bringing about cooperation within groups, as in the community-based
development activities and through the development of educational materials based on oral traditions);
*  bridging social capital (bringing about cooperation between groups);
*  civic engagement and voice at the community and local levels; and
*  cohesion around a common awareness of Eritrea's long and rich history and heritage.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Communities adjacent to threatened sites in Qohaito, Nakfa, and around Sembel wiU be involved in project
implementation. It is expected that the project will cany out social assessments in these sites to find ways
of more fully encouraging stewardship for these important sites. The Built environment component will
focus on the involvement of key stakeholders and communities in the use of public buildings and spaces,
and will provide resources to encourage community-driven stewardship.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
- 13 -



With regard to the living cultures component, several local institutions are expected to be closely involved
in implementation, including the Mrara Arts Society and Mahber Fikri Sine-Tibeb (lit. 'the Art Lover's
Society). The Debre Bizen Committee, established to provide civil society support for the monastery of
Debre Bizen, will be closely involved in activities with the monastery, financed by the project.
6.4 What institutional arranigements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomCs?
Social assessments are considered a key part of the site conservation and planning component, and the built
heritage component heavily derives from the results of the inventory and social and economic survey
completed widtin the historic perimeter of Asmara. The project will include monitoring of social impacts,
as part of its monitoring and evaluation work.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An M&E specialist is to be employed to develop and implement monitoring mechanisms, derived from
social assessments and household studies which have already been, or will be, completed. The M&E
specialist is expected to work closely with social scientists employed through the project in doing this.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           O Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Manaaement (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in Lnternational Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project is being implemented in part by the National Museums of Eritrea, which has primary
responsibility for safeguarding heritage sites and cultural property.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
- 14 -



2. Critical Risks (rcflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Site Planning and Conservation           N         Social assessment and a focus on conununity
role in site management is a feature of project
Conserved sites will be attractive to                 design.
tourists.
Tourism benefits are expected to be generated
Communities develop a sense of                        by collaborating with local tourism industry.
stewardship for important cultural assets.
Other partners are being identified to assist in
Local benefits can be generated as an                 site conservation.
outcome of better site conservation.
Chosen sites are popularly recognized for their
Other partners and institutions in Eritrea            importance to the national heritage.
are willing to collaborate in cultural
heritage conservation activities.                     Community-based approaches to niche market
tourism development will be encouraged.
Too-rapid tourism development threatens
local cultures.
2. Conserving the Built Environment         M         Custodial assignments are more cost-effective
for investors than new construction or
Custodial assignments will be welcomed                conventional rentals.
by potential partners.
Public information and training of architects and
Incentives for conservation and adaptive              designers will improve knowledge of the value
re-use are greater than incentives for                of traditional building styles.
'upgrading' old buildings.
Building ownership is considered when
Building ownership is not a constraint to             identifying buildings for conservation.
conservation.
Civic engagement and a community-orientation
Interest in the architectural heritage of             will be central to the design of local
Massawa and Asmara can be developed                   conservation initiatives.
among other partners.
Insufficient involvement of communities
and neighborhoods in planning and
"owning" the conservation agenda
Asmara's competitiveness and
attractiveness to foreign investors will
depend on maintaining its "unique sense
of place."
-15 -



3. Supporting Living Culture                N         Partnerships with University, Culture Bureau,
and other Departments of the Ministry of
Catalytic role of several key partners can            Education are already established.
be built upon.
Complementarity between oral literature
and literacy programs can be exploited.
4. Documentation and Information            N         Development of legal instruments depends on
Management                                            wider movement toward legal reforms.
Legal processes can be implemented to                 Training has been designed to meet specific
bring about national system of records                capacity constraints.
management.
Capacity constraints can be addressed
through training.
From Components to Outputs
LACI requirements can be met or an          M         Financial management systems are being
action plan can be put in place to bring              designed to be LACI compliant, so that they
the project into LACI compliance.                     won't have to be retrofitted.
Mechanisms for collaboration and            N         Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage to play
cooperation between multiple stakeholders             key and critical role.
are clear.
Counterpart funds are made available in a   S         Steering Committee is under the auspices of the
timely manner.                                        Ministry of Finance, but funding constraints are
expected to be acute.
Needed staff are hired in a timely manner   M         Upstream recruitment process already
by implementing agencies.                             underway.
Overall Risk Rating                         N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit paid in.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None.
- 16 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
K 1. b) Not applicable.
L] 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
0 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
12 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Peter A. Dewees                     o     . Sullivan                  Oey Astra Meesook
Team Leader                        Sec  r Manager                     Country ManagerlDirector
- 17 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ERITREA: Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To support Government's      * National, regional, and    *  Targeted ESW (i.e.  Cultural asset management
cultural asset rehabilitation  local governments          assessment of economics contributes to increased
and conservation agenda with    actively involved in       of tourism; assessments income through tourism,
regard to                       cultural asset             of education and      building trades development,
*  capacity building;         management;               literacy);            literacy and education
*  increasing sources of   * Greater stewardship of    * Public expenditure    programs, and general growth
growth; and               historic sites and built    reviews;              and development.
* human resources             heritage;               * Country Economic
development.            * Integration of cultural    Memorandum.           Political stability in the region
asset conservation with                         creates an enabling
tourism initiatives,                             environment for tourism
*  Increased contribution                           development.
of building trades to
local development and
income generation.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
*  Scope for expanded
action is identified;
* Pilot initiatives are
assessed for useful
lessons, and used as the
basis for a wider
program of support;
* Additional financing is
sought from other
donors.
- 18 -



K~y Perfonace 0-,        .. .'....
I4iera~~hyoI Obetvs.I4ctr                           onitoring' &  valuato       ric  Aupna
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To test out and develop the  * Good practices for        * Project M&E 'good       Partnerships have the
means for more fuuy              cultural asset             practice' reports      potential for bringing about
integrating the conservation     conservation activities    prepared for Qohaito,   cultural asset conservation.
and management of Eritrea's     are identified;             Asmara, and Nakfa;
cultural assets into local and  * Regional and local     * Monitoring of           Regional and local
national economic                governments gain           involvement of regional governments share the
development.                    perspectives on how         and local authorities in  national cultural asset
cultural asset             implementation/        management agenda.
management can             involvement in the
generate benefits;         Steering Committee;
* Partners in the private  *  Reports on custodial    Private sector and other
sector take a more active  assignments of         partners have the capacity to
role in cultural asset     architecturally        bring resources to bear on
conservation;              significant buildings;   cultural asset management
*  Other local institutions    *  Monitored progress of  and conservation.
are more fully involved    museum development   Private sector and other
in cultural asset          and curriculum changes. partners are willing to focus
management and use.                               on conservation of older
buildings during upgrades and
renovations.
-19-



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Appropriate system has    * Model planning process M&E of site conservation     Conserved sites will be
been tested and is in place for  launched and          development process. Site    attractive to tourists.
cost-effective                   comnmunity-based site  inspections. Regular project
community-based site            conservation activities  reporting.                Communities develop a sense
conservation in Qohaito and     launched in Qohaito and                            of stewardship for important
other pilot sites (particularly  other pilot sites;                                cultural assets.
sites from the independence  *  Conservation and       M&E reports. Site
war from prior to 1991).        maintenance of selected  inspections.              Local benefits can be
Process for establishment of     structures built during                           generated as an outcome of
National Museums is             the independence war is                            better site conservation.
underway;                       underway;
*  First phase of site   M&E reports. Regular        Other partners and institutions
conservation activities is communication with partners. in Eritrea are willing to
launched; visitor                                 collaborate in cultural asset
interpretation work is                            management and
completed;                                        conservation activities.
* Additional partners are  M&E reports for this
involved in           component. Site inspections.
implementation of site
conservation plans;
*  Community-based       M&E reports. Project
activities are        supervision.
incorporated into
implementation;
*  Local visitor centers    M&E reports. Project
constructed and       supervision
operational;
* National museum        M&E reports. Project
facilities are renovated;  supervision
Regional and national
staff trained in museum
curation.
- 20 -



2. Activities to conserve the  *  Guidelines for building  M&E reports. Project    Custodial assignments will be
architectural heritage of       conservation are       supervision;                welcomed by potential
Asmara and Massawa are          prepared and                                       partners.
underway, which focus on        disseminated;
renovation and adaptive re-use   *  Conservation and   Inventory reports. Planning   Incentives for conservation
of architecturally significant  maintenance of         and implementation reports.  and adaptive re-use are greater
buildings;                      buildings within the                               than incentives for 'upgrading'
historical perimeter                              old buildings.
of Asmara and the old
town of Massawa                                   Building ownership is not a
identified through                                constraint to conservation.
inventory process
is underway;                                      Interest in the architectural
* Training program in    M&E reports. Regular project heritage of Massawa and
conservation and      reporting.                  Asmara can be developed
restoration of historical                         among other partners.
buildings is in place;
*  Custodial assignments   Reports on training
of important buildings   component. M&E reports.
are made and
conservation is
underway;
*  Traditional building  Project supervision. M&E
skills are strengthened  reports
through skills
development and
training
*  Partnership           Development partners
arrangements for      meetings; dialogue with other
building conservation   donors.
are implemented
(building fund,
conservation award
program, etc.)
*  Other funding partners  M&E reports. Project
are identified to support supervision
built heritage
conservation.
-21 -



3. Local institutions active in    *  Program of training in   M&E reports. Project       Catalytic role of several key
the arts community, in oral         oral history and oral   supervision.                  partners can be built upon.
history, oral literature and        literature and          Planning and implementation
traditions are fully mobilized     traditions is in place.    reports.                    Complementarity between oral
to collect and integrate        *  Oral history, oral       M&E reports. Regular project literature and literacy
cultural concerns into training    literature and traditions, reporting.                  programs can be exploited.
and program development.           including the material
aspects of culture e.g.
traditional crafts is
given prominence at
national level.
*  Commurity theater is   Reports on training. M&E
mobilized to focus on    reports.
cultural assets,
conservation
and management.
*  Folklore of all ethnic    Project supervision. M&E
groups is collected.    reports
*  Management of oral      Project supervision. M&E
history, oral literature   reports
and traditions is
strengthened.
*  Oral literature is given   Project supervision. M&E
prominence at the       reports
national level through
performances;
*  Community theater is   Project supervision. M&E
mobilized to focus on    reports
cultural asset
conservation and
management;
*  Training in oral history  Project supervision. M&E
is provided;            reports
*  Asmara Arts center in   Project supervision. M&E
place and operating;    reports
*  oral history of four    Project supervision. M&E
periods (i.e. pre       reports
colonial, Italian, British
and Federal, and
Ethiopian annexation
and armed struggle,
1961-1991) is collected.
- 22 -



4. The framework for the      *  Priority setting for    Project supervision. M&E    Legal processes can be
establishment of national and    investments in archives  reports                    implemented to bring about
regional archives is in place,   development is                                      national system of records
and there is improved capacity   completed.                                          management.
for records management in     *  Training in archives and Reports on training. M&E
public and private archives.     records management is  reports.                     Capacity constraints can be
provided;                                          addressed through training.
*  Investments in improved Project supervision. M&E
records management    reports
technologies are made;
*  Asmara municipal       Project supervision. M&E
building records are    reports
reorganized.
*  Inventory of arts and    Project supervision. M&E
manuscripts found in   reports
religious institutes (both
Christian and Muslim)
is undertaken.
*  Appropriate storage    Project supervision. M&E
facilities for safe   reports
keeping of parchments
and other
manuscripts is built in
selected monasteries.
- 23 -



Hiearh   f  bJct  0sndcaornionio ring 8 Ealutin 
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
(US$ million)             Supervision Missions;      LACI requirements can be
1. Site planning and      IDA:       1.4             discussions with project staff  met or an action plan can be
conservation pilots       GOE:        0.1            and stakeholders; periodically put in place to bring the
Subtotal:  1.5            reported in PSRs;          project into LACI compliance.
2. Conserving the built   IDA:       2.2             Regular PMRs.             Mechanisms for collaboration
environment               GOE:        0.1                                      and cooperation between
Other:      0.1                                      multiple stakeholders are
Subtotal: 2.5                                        clear.
3. Support for living cultures IDA:   0.5                                       Counterpart funds are made
GOE:         0.02                                    available in a timely manner.
Subtotal:  0.52
4. Documentation, and     IDA:        0.5                                      Needed staff are hired in a
information management    GOE:         0.05                                    timely manner by
Subtotal:   0.55                                     implementing agencies.
5. Project management     IDA:        0.3
GOE:         0.04
Subtotal:   0.34
- 24 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ERITREA: Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
This Annex is condensed from the Working Papers which describe each project component more
fully, and which comprise part of the Project Implementation Plan. Project costs include
physical and price contingencies.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.50 million
Site Planning, Conservation, and Museum Development
Background
The Site Planning, Conservation, and Museum Development component of the Cultural Assets
Rehabilitation project is designed: a) to meet conservation needs, through surveys and growth-oriented
community-based planning and conservation processes, at three pilot sites in Eritrea (Qohaito, Nakfa, and
in sites close to Asmara; and b) to support a process for the planning, design, and rehabilitation of a
building in Asmara to become the main exhibition space for the National Museums of Eritrea better to
enable it to deliver on its mandate of education, rescarch and exhibition, The community-based
management planning process is expected to provide a comprehensive, participatory framework for site
planning and conservation at pilot historic sites. The planning process will aim to build on Eritrea's rich
local knowledge while strengthening communities' abilities to assess, prioritize, plan, organize and evaluate
the conservation of their cultural assets in the context of their economic growth priorities. The project will
build on the proudly-held traditions which have supported participatory processes for community
development. This participatory tradition derives from the long struggle for independence and has featured
strongly in development activities since independence in 1993.
Overview of the sites of Qohaito, Asmara, and Nakfa
The ancient city of Qohaito is located at the crossroads of the main communication axes between the
ancient Red Sea port city of Adulis to the north and Matara and Axum to the south. This location made it
one of the most important political centers in the region. At one time, Qohaito appears to have been a
garden city surrounded by many towns and hamlets, now characterized as a cluster of sites over an area of
17 km by 4 km. A recent archaeological survey and inventory was carried out by Humboldt University of
Berlin, in collaboration with the Kunsthistorisches Musetun of Vienna, the Technical University of Berlin,
and the National Museum of Eritrea from 1996 to 1998. This survey revealed over 650 structures within
the area of the Qohaito site which makes Qohaito one of the most extensive archeological sites of
significance in Africa. Settlement around Qohaito can be dated as far back as 12,000 BC (from nearby
rock paintings), but the bulk of the most important structures at the site date from 500 BC to 700 AD.
The major conservation threat to this site is the unknowing destruction of remains by the local community.
Houses have been built on or near sensitive archaeological areas, and in many cases, residents have
unintentionally destroyed sites by excavating them for cut stones to build steps, doorways, wall comers,
and lintels for their homes. In a number of cases, ancient buildings have been excavated for use as cattle
and sheep corrals and humani residences. The problem has been reduced over time with the growing
awareness of the community as to the importance of the site, but as yet, the problem has not been
completely solved. It is expected that over the course of the community based management planning
process, solutions will be found to ensure that the development needs will be met without damaging the
- 25 -



important historic fabric.
Recent archeological studies in the vicinity of Asmara have identified several important sites, among the
most important of these of which is Sembel (located on a hillside overlooking the contemporary community
of Sembel) around 2 km west of the airport. Evidence suggests that this site, on the outskirts of the capital,
may be the remnants of one of sub-Saharan Africa's oldest settled agricultural communities. The dominant
paradigm about the rise of complex societies in this part of Africa has been undermined by these finds,
which strongly suggest local origin not linked to foreign influence. Radiocarbon tests date the settlement
site at Sembel to between 400 and 700 BC. Samples collected from the site show the settlement's
inhabitants ate cows and goats, engaged in agricultural activity and built stone houses with mud mortar.
Gold earrings, bracelets, rings, copper and bronze daggers and multiple-neck pottery jugs dated to 400 BC
during the pre-Axumite period (500 BC. to 0 AD.) were found in one excavation, which was possibly a
burial site. The sites at Sembel are littered with stylized stone heads of bulls, some the size of a thumbnail.
The great variety in the heads suggests a connection to some sort of ritual.
As Asmara rapidly expands into these adjacent areas, the immediate needs in Sembel and ofher sites (ound
Asmara are for rapid inventories and surveys of the sites, so that the impacts of future development on
these sites can be mitigated. Extensive damage to these and other sites has already taken place, particularly
as a result of rock quarrying, road building, dam construction, and mechanized agriculture. As urban
improvements are undertaken in the more recent downtown parts of Asmara -- roads, telecommunications
improvement, and water and sewerage -- the National Museum must be in a much better position to
evaluate and understand the archeological finds which are likely, and to mitigate the impacts of these
improvements. A systematic inventory of the greater Asmara area, coupled with an assessment of
archeological significance is immediately needed.
Sites close to the town of Nakfa in the northwest represents an important element of modem cultural
heritage for the Eritrean people. The site symbolizes Eritrean perseverance over adversity, and as such is a
symbol of a culture of independence, self-determination, and resistance to oppression that is central to the
cultural fabric of Eritrea today. The site is composed of a series of underground structures, as well as
trenches that extend for 9 to 10 km., near the town of Nakfa from which the independence war was waged
from 1979 to 1988, and into the early 1990s. What makes these sites special, however, is less their role in
war, but rather their role in the preservation of Eritrean culture at the time of the struggle. A vast
infrastructure of underground schools, hospitals, theaters, and other structures were built to cater to the
needs of any normal society. The Nakfa complex is quickly deteriorating and disappearing. For example,
the wooden roof supports over many of the underground facilities have been removed for fuel. In addition,
extensive networks of trenches have caved in or been destroyed for the same reason or due to neglect. The
National Museum believes that if action is not taken, in another 5 to 10 years, there will be few traces
remaining of this network.
The National Museums of Eritrea
The National Museum was established in January 1992. Originally housed in the former Governor's
Palace in Asmara, in 1996 the Museum and its collection was transferred to the premises of the disused
Comboni Sister's convent school in the western section of the city. A subsequent UNESCO report
appraised the facility and discussed its future requirements, while emphasizing the Museum's three
important functions: education, research, and exhibition. Largely because of the lack of an adequate
facility, the museum's mandate has not been addressed. The current museum facility is not open to the
public although special visitors are allowed to see the collections in their storage rooms. The collection
contains archaeological artifacts including pottery, inscribed stones, pillars, statuary, beads, bracelets, and
- 26 -



rings from the Axumite and pre-Axumite periods. The etlmographic collection includes jewely, musical
instruments, pieces of architectural decoration, etc. There is also a natural history collection and a large
collection of artwork that was created during the independence struggle. The collection is only partially
inventoried and work continues on this task. The Director of the National Museum is also the head of
department of the Archaeology Department at the University of Asmara. There are 9 staff members under
him, but only 2 have formal training in museology or related disciplines. There is however, a new program
in cultural asset management and conservation at the University within the Department of Archaeology
which is producing more trained staff, both for the museum itself and the management of sites outside
Asmara.
The Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage has recommended the establishment of a new main exhibition
space in a disused building in the center of Asmara, known as the Spinelli Warehouse, originally
constructed during the Italian colonial period. It was completed in 1940, by the Societa Anomine Industrie
e Commerci Africani (SAICA), of which Eugenio Spinelli was the director. The architect, named
Beltrame, incorporated traditional styles of construction, the so-called 'moikey-head' style, into the walls of
the warehouse, by alternating cut stone with rows of brick. As such, it is a representative -- and somewhat
innovative-- architectural style from the period. Centrally located, the building is also easily accessible to
visitors and residents of Asmara. The warehouse has a covered floor space of nearly 4,000 m2.
Component Activities
Community based management planning
The activities within this sub-component should be seen as contributing to the overall goal of providing
mechanisms for better growth-oriented planning and management of cultural assets at the selected pilot
sites within an overall development framework. Three interrelated activities are foreseen within this
sub-component:
*   the implementation of a systematic pilot archeological site inventory of the greater Asmara area to lay
the ground to conserve, protect, and interpret these sites, and to use the inventory process to pilot and
build capacity to undertake this type of activity; It is envisaged that a community-based management
plan would be a longer term objective for which the pilot inventory would lay the groundwork;
*  the implementation of a growth-oriented community based managemnent planning exercise for the
Qohaito and Nakfa pilot sites (where inventories have already been tentatively completed), considering
the management, conservation, and interpretation needs as well as other development activities
identified by the community within the process;
*   the implementation of the short term actions for management, conservation, and development,
addressing priority needs identified as an outcome of the management planning exercise.
Priority actions which would be financed by the project would involve the pilot inventory work around
Asmara, and the development of community based management plan for the selected sites of Qohaito and
Nakfa. An emphasis should be placed on the participatory nature of the process, with a group comprised of
community members and other stakeholders involved in the site, being set up to oversee the plan creation.
Issues addressed by the planning process would be the management, conservation, monitoring,
maintenance, interpretation and presentation, and visitor management at the sites, and critical development
issues identified by the community as part of this participatory process.
-27 -



Museum planning and design
The activities within this sub-component should be seen as contributing to the goal of improving the
management and interpretation of Eritrea's cultural heritage for presentation to both Eritrean and
international visitors. The activities foreseen within this sub-component include:
*  the confirmation or revision of the Museum's mission statementlmandate and the development of a
functional plan including space requirements for the various activities to be undertaken by the
Museum;
*   the development of a management structure for the Museum which allows it to carry out each of its
mandated activities;
*   the planning and design of renovationsfor the museum to greatly strengthen the interpretation and
presentation of Eritrean cultural in its various fonns;
*   the implementation of thefirst phase of renovation work for the new museum facility;
*   development of ties with secondary education institutions in Asmara.
This project sub-component will provide assistance to Government for the planning, design, and partial
renovation of a new museum facility for the National Museums in Asmara. The output of this activity will
a policy framework for the museum, complete architectural plans, complete exhibit plans, the selection and
training of staff, implementation of the first phase of activity, and a fundraising plan for future phases.
Some of these issues have already been dealt with in some detail in the two UNESCO reports that have
been prepared for the National Museums, and these documents will be used as a basis on which to start the
work.
Project Component 2 - US$2.50 million
Conservinit the Built Environment
Background
The aim of the Built Environment component is to promote urban economic growth and poverty reduction
while seeking to conserve the unique architectural heritage of Asmara, Massawa and other cities. This
component emerges from a deep consciousness about the need to preserve and maintain historical
architecture, neighborhoods and streets through out Eritrea, coupled with the firm belief that urban growth
and poverty reduction go hand in hand. Asmara, in particular is acknowledged to have a special
architectural and urban form, which has survived, against all odds over many years of domination with
little change. It is believed that Asmara can continue to serve as the capital of Eritrea and as the home of
thousands of its citizens, both maintaining its unique character and offering the potential for targeted
growth in particular sectors.
Growth and development of Asmara
Asmara started as a combination of villages around the site of St. Mary's Orthodox church sometime in the
16th century, following on centuries-old settlement of nearby sites such as Sembel. Little is known about
the development of Asmara during the four centuries that followed. In 1866 it became the general
headquarters of Bahr Negash Gurade Zeray, the most important traditional ruler of the central highland
areas. In 1873 the Egyptians, who had occupied the coastal zone, raided Asmara causing the population to
vacate the area. By 1885 Italy had occupied Massawa and four years later, in 1889 an Italian force
commanded by General Baldissera occupied Asniara. Baldissera built his fortification at foot of Emba Bet
- 28 -



Meka, now the site of the Ministry of Information. Asmara was for the most part a small town, until the
early 1930s. Between 1933 and 1938, a significant rise in the Italian colonial population from 4,000 to
53,000 took place, and this coincided with a construction boom which greatly contributed to the town's
current form.
Particularly when the Italian invasion of Ethiopia was completed in 1936, an important set of initiatives in
town planning and architecture for Italy's colonies were set in motion. One of these was the competition for
the master plan of Asmara. The Terms of Reference for the town planning competition were ideologically
close to fascism, i.e. the separation of the races and the adulation of the grandeur of the fascist State. The
architectural ideologue behind this effort, was Marcelo Piacentini, one of Fascist Italy's foremost planners
and architects and a member of the central government's council on town planning.
By the time the town planning process got underway in Asmara, fascism was facing greater challenges in
Europe, and far from Rome's watchful eyes, the Governor, Giuseppe Daodiaci, and his somewhat more
enlightened colleagues were left undisturbed to do what they felt was in the best interest of the residents of
Asmara. One of the remarkable characteristics of Asmara which emerged out of this period and which has
contributed so much to its style and sense of urban cohesion is the fact that the city successfully combines
residential uses, with commercial, recreational, and administrative uses. Offices are seldom more than a 3
minute walk from shops or from Cafes. Residences and businesses function side-by-side. Parks and open
spaces are integrated into the whole of the city fabric. It is this sense that these different sectors must
continue to function side-by-side, instead of relegating houses to residential suburbs, shops to commercial
centers, and offices to administrative building clusters, while at the same time preserving some green spaces
and common areas as public amenities.
Another feature of the construction boom of the 1930s was that the colonial government was willing to
allow radical architectural experimentation. A generation of young avant-garde architects from the Italian
and German internationalist movement found a willing market for their building designs -- which in many
instances couldn't be built in architecturally conservative Europe. Asmara, then, became the site for
architectural innovation and experimentation -- a fact which also contributes to the unique 'feel' of the city
and its urban design. This combination of factors makes Asmara unique in all of Africa, and a destination
for architects and scholars keen on understanding this period of architectural history.
The current estimated population of Asmara is about 450,000 or roughly 15% of the total population of the
country. Asmara accounts for almost 70% of the country's urban population, and is expected to grow
significantly both in area and in population. Already, 13 of the rural villages that surrounded Asmara,
forming its farming hinterland have been incorporated into the municipal administration. The city continues
to attract the bulk of new investment, and new job creation is also concentrated within the municipal
boundary. There is an acute awareness of the need for a better and more sensible growth path in Asmara,
one which maintains its unique historic character, while building on its potential as a locus of economic
change in Eritrea.
As part of the effort to conserve the special architecture of Asmara, a historic perimeter is to be designated,
coinciding with boundaries of the old center of the city where most colonial buildings are situated, and
which covers an area of between 4 to 8 square km. A preliminary survey of buildings within the historic
perimeter has been completed. Over 400 buildings of architectural significance within the perimeter have
been identified, and a preliminary classification of these buildings by architectural style and by
conservation status has been completed. It is expected that this inventory will provide the basis for future
conservation.
-29 -



Social and economic profile of the historic perimeter
In an effort more fully to understand the nature of the urban management challenge, the physical inventory
of buildings within the historic perimeter has been complemented by a householdlenterprise survey of
residents and businesses to develop a social and economic profile of the residents and businesses of this
part of Asmara. The survey has established some general parameters, including: the social and economic
status of residents; the condition and status of public amenities, sanitation, water supply, domestic energy;
ownership, rental, tenancy, status of residences and enterprises; income levels, and the portion of income
devoted to rent; the nature of income generation and the status of poverty within the historic perimeter; the
nature, scope and size of enterprises and the status of employment; and extent of public ownership. The
database which has been established will be used in further planning and implementation of the Built
Heritage Component of the project.
Preliminary findings from the survey have established that the population which is resident within the
Historic Perimeter is around 13,000, in 1,492 residences. There are another 953 small businesses or
enterprises. With regard to water and sanitation, around 10 percent of respondents within the historic
perimeter have no access to drinking water supply. Around 56 percent of respondents had no proper
bathing facilities, while around 70 percent of respondents had no facility for the disposal of human waste.
Only a very small percentage of the buildings inventoried have no access to solid waste collection services
(0.5 percent).
Stall owners in informal markets employ as many as 4,000 people, many of them women. Income in this
group is low, and periodic unemployment is common. Enterprises are clustered in three centers: Enda
Ahmelti (fruits and vegetables); Medeber (stalls for recycled household goods, workshops, pepper and
spice grinders); and Baranda (stalls for pulses, cereals, and vegetables). These three clusters of enterprises
forms a backbone of the informal business sector of Asmara. Rent is paid to the Zoba administration, and
ranges from 9 to 30 Nakfa per month; gross income is thought to be much lower than formal sector
enterprises. Employment in the sector is highly volatile, and depends very much on supplies and prices of
commodities.
Alithough this analysis is preliminary, it does suggest that any significant effort geared toward preserving
buildings in the historic perimeter must critically focus on creating the incentives for private owners,
businesses, and residents, properly to conserve buildings of architectural and historic importance, to
develop public-private partnerships which help in doing this, and to focus on how basic services can be
improved to these households. Finally, the ownership status of many buildings remains unresolved, and
must be settled as a matter of priority as an important prerequisite for building conservation.
Prioritiesfor conservation and investment
Eritrea's built environment has been neglected for decades. Little or no conservation work has been
undertaken in the recent past, and delays in future conservation will result in the further deterioration of the
built environment. There is little capacity for undertaking building conservation, though there are
enormous needs for doing so. Government has taken the position that investnents in conservation of the
built heritage must be expected to increase income and to reduce poverty. Behind this idea is that a
conscious and functional partnership between government and the people of Asmara and Massawa, in
particular, should be the basis for achieving the objectives of protecting the built heritage of these cities.
If investments in the conservation of the built heritage are to have an impact on reducing poverty, the
poorest must be able to take advantage of opportunities posed by these investments. Government has
- 30 -



proposed, then, that physical conservation supported through the project (as well as by other initiatives)
would be targeted at the unemployed, for example, those who live within Asmara's historic perimeter and
the informal sectors operating in Baranda, Medeber, and Enda-Hamli, and would focus on, among other
things, providing training in the building trades and in other skills.
Component Activities
The objective of the Built Heritage Component of the Cultural Heritage Project is to provide support for
testing several approaches, on a pilot basis, for integrating poverty reduction and growth objectives with
the conservation of the unique architectural heritage of Asmara, and for developing future interventions in
Massawa and other sites. The Built Heritage component of the project is expected to comprise 3 set of
activities: supporting enterprise development; improving the delivery of community and public services;
training and capacity building.
Supporting enterprise development
The activities within this sub-component will focus on strengthening the role of small businesses and
communities within the historic perimeter in the conservation of buildings and architecture. The project is
expected to finance:
*   the design and pilot implementation of the Eritrean Conservation Fund to support for public-private
partnerships in restoring buildings and public spaces for adaptive re-use. The fund will have a
community-based component to it, to provide resources for demand-driven community-centered
activities to bring about local improvements in the urban fabric. It is envisaged that the Fund will
provide grants to the private sector and to communities on a cost-sharing basis to implement agreed
building conservation activities. Grantees will be expected to go through an application and vetting
process in order to access these funds. Innovative uses of the Fund, and a flexible approach to its use,
are expected to be encouraged in the design process. Two subsectors will be particularly targeted for
work with the Fund. Firstly, it is envisaged that stall owners witlinl the historic perimeter will be
encouraged to access funds to improve social amenities, such as hygiene and sanitation. Secondly,
small pensions are found throughout the historic zone in Asmara, and it is envisaged that the project
will work closely with pension owners and operators, with financing from the Fund, to serve as engines
of growth by providing alternative and more diverse tourist accommodation of a high standard to
service the industry.
* strengthened capacity for small enterprises working in the building trades. The project will finance
the establishment of a small workshop -- the Seranda workshop (named after the wooden shutters
found on many buildings) -- with the objective of providing support and training for small-scale
enterprise development and training in the building trades (with a focus on wood craft), based in
Massawa. It is envisaged that the workslop will work with older, and skilled craftsmen, as well as
with disabled former fighters, with the medium-term vision that they become owners of the enterprise
itself, while providing an imnportant service for the conservation and renovation of Eritrea's built
heritage. As a training and demonstration effort, the Seranda workshop will be engaged in the first
instance in restoring the so-called Covered Walkway, an architectural feature around 17 meters wide
and 100 m long, found in the center of Massawa.
- 31 -



*   selective conservafion for small enterprise development There is a growing awareness of the need to
undertake a publicly-financed conservation effort, as a demonstration project, which shows how an
architecturally significant building can be conserved and re-used. Government has also indicated its
interest in seeing that such a project could be used to house enterprises which have otherwise limited
access to public or exhibition space. The project expects to finance the conservation and adaptive
re-use of the Alfa Romeo building (which dates from the late 1930s) as exhibition and studio space for
the Asmara arts community. The Alfa Romeo center is expected to be a key facility for the training of a
new generation of artisans and crafts people, housing 10 to 15 studios. The work of artists will be
combined with public awareness programs which encourage cultural heritage conservation, and other
development priorities such as sanitation, child development, and health education. The facility will be
used as a demonstration site for how some of Asmara's older buildings can be renovated and re-used in
a sensitive, but architecturally consistent, manner.
Improving community and public services and assets
A key feature of the project has to do with how public spaces and public assets of significant cultural value
can be revived to contribute to the life of the community. The project will pilot three sets of activities in
this regard, firstly having to do with the conservation of several of Asmara's theaters for their re-use by the
community, the conservation of a public facility to improve service delivery integrated with the restoration
of a small adjacent piazza, and lastly working with the Eritrean Orthodox Church to strengthen cultural
asset management at one of its monasteries.
* The many movie theaters of Asmara, built mostly at the height of Italian settlement in the 1930s,
remain important cultural assets for the city. Several of these are recognized as architectural
masterpieces. Although the lively cinema and theatrical community which fostered their construction is
no longer central to their use, they continue to be heavily used by communities and zobas, for meetings
and cultural events. The project will finance preliminary planning and emergency conservation
works of two theaters -- Teatro Asmara and the Capitol Theater. The planning process supported by
the project would be used to identify possible financing for the eventual renovation. It is envisaged that
the conservation plans for both theaters would focus heavily on how they can be more fully used by the
Sub-Zoba, both for cultural events and for public meetings. Conservation plans are expected to
include provisions for continuing education, and for office space for community-based initiatives such
as conservation, self-help, or other income generating activities.
* Steps for the improved use of public spaces will be financed by the project. The project will finance
modest conservation works of a public building -- the Central Post Office, which dates from 1916 --
and will work to revive the community-based use and management of two of the city's many piazzas
and parks, to bring about their more effective use for social and cultural events. Many of these public
open spaces, piazzas, and special streets have become derelict because of a lack of community
participation in managing and maintaining them. In the absence of an appropriate mechanism for local
management, local authorities have built fences and padlocked open spaces, gardens, and piazzas, to
keep out those who misuse and vandalize them. The practice is not consistent with the original
intention that these be kept as open spaces for the use of the community. A community-based
approach to the management of piazzas, which will be piloted by the project, would result in their more
effective use for social and cultural events.
* The monastery of Debre Bizen was established around 1361 by Abuna Filipos, and is one of the most
important of its kind in Africa. It holds an extremely important collection of ecclesiastical
- 32 -



manuscripts, some of which date to the 1400s, and possibly earlier. Its importance is rooted in the fact
that it was one of the very few monasteries to have escaped the ravages of the Islamic invader, Ahmed
Gragn, in the early 1500s. The project will provide support to the Debre Bizen monastery for
building an archive for its manuscripts and for opening a small museum at the site. A local committee
of concerned individuals, the Debre Bizen Committee, will be the primary mechanism for mobilizing
and delivering this support from the project.
Training and capacity building
The project will finance training and capacity building to bring about greater inclusion of the poorest in
building conservation works. It intends to identify capacity for the building trades amongst lower income
groups and to focus on improving this capacity. The Secretariat will develop guidelines for contractors
involved in building conservation which encourage pro-poor employment practices and intends to support
the development of a broader pro-poor built heritage conservation planning and regulatory framework.
* The project will finance the development of a pilot training course on Building Preservation and
Conservation at the Asmara Technical School. The objective of the course would be to develop a
skilled cadre of knowledgeable craftspeople who can provide services in building preservation and
conservation. Additional courses and workshops will provide basic training in building skills related to
conservation for unskilled laborers, who are typically unemployed and from the poorest groups. It is
envisaged that participants will be associated with the three informal sector clusters of stalls in
Asmara: Enda Ahmelti, Medeber, and Baranda. The objective is to develop a basic set of conservation
building skills among as many as 500 people in this group. The training course will be linked with
employment generation activities supported by the Contractors Association.
*  Finally, the project is expected to improve the capacityfor conservation planning through a series of
priority planning initiatives, focused on three particular tasks for Asmara: clarifying and formalizing
the boundaries of the historic perimeter of Asmara; improving the regulatory framework for built
heritage con3ervation, in a way which supports pro-poor urban development; the development of
special conservation areas, streets, and neighborhoods; pedestrian and bicycle zones; and small
enterprise development; preparation of selected conservation plans, supported by targeted mapping and
cadastral surveys of portions of the historic perimeter. The project will finance specialized services
and equipment to carry out these tasks, under the close supervision of the Steering Committee and
Secretariat for Cultural Heritage. Depending on the outcome from the planning exercise in Asmara,
the initiative may be extended to other small urban centers in Eritrea of architectural significance -- for
example, Massawa, Keren, or Decamhare.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.50 million
Supportin! Livinit Culture
Background
There are nine indigenous languages natively spoken by Eritrea's nine ethnic communities, but there is little
information about the extent to which each of these languages is spoken, physical language boundaries, and
the distribution of dialects. The fact that population numbers are relatively small for some of these
language groups suggests that these languages are amongst the most threatened. Recent scholarship has
confirmed the prevalence of an old and rich repertory of oral cultures across these language groups, which
includes tales, poetry, songs, proverbs, and sung folkloric games. In relative terms, some languages appear
- 33 -



to have been well-documented (Tigrinya and to a lesser extent Afar and Tigre). By contrast, there is little
documentation of the oral traditions of the other six languages.
The desire of Eritreans to preserve their oral literature is not something novel, but rather one that has been
deeply imprinted in the minds and hearts of many since the time of the liberation struggle. Particularly
since independence in 1993, there has been a palpable and an increasingly deep awareness that the
collection, preservation, and development of the country's oral traditions, literature, and accounts of its
recent history is just as important as other sectors are for the nation's development. Indeed, there is a
growing awareness of the need for urgent steps to prevent the loss of the country's oral traditions and
literature, with the view that if nothing is done now, many of these traditions will be lost entirely. One of
the greatest threats to Eritrea's long-standing oral traditions is posed, paradoxically enough, by the spread
of literacy. As the print and electronic media provide a more widespread means for communicating, oral
traditions become less important, and are pushed further into the background by the cultural and social
mechanisms associated with the print and media cultures. The second major danger to Eritrea's oral
literature is related to the fact that many of the elders who have long preserved the folklore of the people are
now old, and when they die., they will take their stories and legends with dtem.
The matter of the country's written history must be separated from the question of its oral traditions.
Indeed, largely with the exception of locally-derived oral traditions which have captured many aspects of
Eritrea's past, the country's written history has always been written by outsiders. Relatively contemporary
historical accounts were first prepared by Italian scholars. Subsequent 'histories' developed out of the
British Military Administration, then from the Ethiopian period. Eritrea's history always belonged to
someone else. Rather than capturing what Eritreans did and wanted to happen on the one hand, most
histories reflect instead what their rulers attempted to impose on them, on the other. Because of this,
written accounts the Eritrean version of events have long been suppressed. Having said this, the weight of
information about Eritrea's history remains relatively accessible in recent memory and in extensive writings
about oral history. Recapturing Eritrea's history must become a theme and priority of new historical
studies.
Component activities
The objectives of the Living Culture component are to strengthen oral traditions, in particular poetry and
storytelling, by providing performance opportunities for oral poets and storytellers, by providing training
and building capacity in field methods for the collection of oral literature, and by launching pilot field
studies to document and record threatened oral traditions; and to provide the resources to improve the
collection of oral histories and to strengthen the capacity for preparing an Eritrean historiography.
Reviving oral traditions andfolklore
The project is expected to finance capacity building, field studies, and perfonnance opportunities for the
collection and dissemination of oral traditions and folklore. Three phases are envisaged. A first phase,
which focuses on documenting oral poetry from known senior aging griots and griottes of Eritrea, and
preserving it for future publication and dissemination in primary and secondary schools. The project will
finance performnance opportunities and workshops for these artists. The second phase will involve
documenting the material which has been collected, and classifying it by genre. The third phase will
involve cataloguing the material and making selective transcriptions of the text so that it can be made
available to a wider audience. An important aspect of this phase of the activity will be to ensure a
mechanism is found to begin to integrate the material collected into the educational curriculum.
- 34 -



There are three features of this sub-component which bear particular mention. Firstly, Govemrnent intends
to build the capacity of the Cultural Affairs Bureau in the Ministry of Education for taking on this kind of
work, especially focusing on UNESCO's recommendations regarding Safeguarding Traditional Culture
and Folklore. Recommendations adopted by the General Conference at lTNESCO's twenty-fifth session,
November 15, 1989. Capacity will be strengthened by building skills through partnership arrangements
and by using specialists in the field. Secondly, the project will finance training material and field studies so
that staff can gain experience through practical exercises in collecting oral literature. Thirdly, the project
will finance performance opportunities, either at festivals or workshops to encourage traditional oral poets
and storytellers to pass on their stories. Much of the riclness of the tradition comes from the performance
itself.
Building the capacity for oral history
The project will finance field studies and training in methods of collecting oral history. While the project
component will be jointly implemented by the Ministry of Education's Cultural Affairs Bureau and the
PFDJ's History Project, partnership arrangements will be developed with Asinara University's History
Department to enable staff and students to gain greater experience in collecting oral histories.
Project Component 4 - US$0.50 million
Documentation and Information Mana2ement
The Documentation and Information Management component seeks to provide support to enable
Government eventually to establish an Eritrean Archival System to preserve the country's memory for
present and future generations. The National Archives will play a central role in this system as a public
institution that preserves the historical records of the nation, establishes and operates a records
management system for the government, and coordinates a network of regional archives.
This component of the project will concentrate mainly on imnproving professional skills and the
administrative framework for archival and records management (policies and procedures for creating,
using, disposing records and for collecting, organizing and mak-ing available archives) by financing training
and capacity building for professional and non professional staff in the archives and ministries. Activities
focused in protecting the endangered historical heritage are also tak}en in account.
Background
Concern for the preservation of the written documents of past and present and the diffusion of its history
has been a major preoccupation in Eritrea since the struggle for independence started. During the liberation
struggle, the responsibility for collecting publications and documents, preserving them and disseminating
information about the past and present Eritrea situation was the task of two bodies created by the Eritrean
Peoples Liberation Front (EPLF): the Research and Documentation Center (RDC) and the Research and
Information Center of Eritrea (RICE). The RDC was established in 1975, during the war, and was located
in the liberated areas of Eritrea. It was part of the Department of Information of the EPLF. Since 1976, the
RDC has being collecting documents from the different colonial periods, from the armed struggle and from
more recent events, such as from during the referendum for Eritrean independence.
Since 1991 RDC has acted de facto as the National Archives, covering the gaps in the archives situation by
using with maximum efficiency all resources available. Lack of formnal training has being palliated by
-35 -



extensive reading and visits abroad and by the impressive capacity of the staff to react to problems and to
learn from experience. The absence of a legal framework has not constrained the RDC from being
proactive and effective as an institution. Equipment and supplies have been provided by a variety of
donors, and materials have been purchased locally when available. The RDC continues to carry out the
duties of a national archives center: it collects public and private archives, conducts training courses for
Ministry staff, is involved in the preservation of audio-visual records in the archives and in ministries,
provides access to researchers to its holdings and is working to offer a central repository for semi-current
records in the ministries. RDC is also leading an initiative to protect manuscripts in the monasteries,
churches and mosques.
Though the RDC has been functioning as a national archive for some years, its organization, structure, and
functions have not been legally established. Archival legislation should establish by law the difference
between public and private records, which of these are considered to be archival heritage, and how they are
to be conserved. Legislation should also characterize the role and the administrative structure of an
archival system, of regional archives, and of the public records management system. Important progress
has already been made in preparing a legal framework for archival and records management as a result of
various technical studies and inputs.
Though the development of legislation and appropriate infrastructure must be a medium term priority for
RDC as it moves through a transition to become a National Archives, several areas require urgent
investment. Firstly, there are serious capacity constraints at the national and regional level in records and
archival management, and growing needs for skilled staff to handle the demands of records management at
the national level. Secondly, an extensive collection of photographic archives in the Ministry of
Information, and audio-visual records in the RDC needs urgent conservation, and investment. The skills
and equipment to do so are lacking. Thirdly, the conservation and study of ecclesiastical manuscripts is
becoming an increasingly important concern because of the deterioration they are suffering through
improper storage. There is also a keen interest in developing a better understanding of the extent of
Eritrea's ecclesiastical records, and in making these available to a wider group of scholars and historians.
Finally, there is at least one significant private archive in Eritrea which has urgently been seeking support
to improve its system of cataloguing. The Pavoni Center operates an extensive library as part of its
technical training facilities in Asmara, and has one of the best collections of historic documents about
Eritrea, public or private. The collection is currently uncatalogued, and access to it depends on the
knowledge of a single individual.
Component activities
The objectives of the Component are to strengthen skills in the area of Archives and records management,
and to build the capacity for the eventual establishment of an Eritrean National Archives system. It is
envisaged that the project component will finance four sets of activities: capacity building in archival and
records management; conservation of audio-visual and photographic records; ecclesiastical manuscript
preservation; and private archives support.
Capacity building in archival and records management
The development of professional skills is keenly needed to strengthen the capacity for the establishment of
the National Archives. There are several groups of people which require urgent training, with different
objectives: professional staff in the RDC who have graduate level qualifications and direct experience, but
no formal training in archives management; Ministry staff already involved in records management and
archival activities, but who have no formal training; and students from Asmara University without formal
- 36 -



training in records management.
There are no local graduate training opportunities in archival and records management. The project will
provide resources for up to 6 course years of overseas training or equivalent. Staff receiving this training
will be expected to develop a local course of training to build archival skills within Eritrea. This training
should provide:
* a basic understanding of records management and general principles and practices of archival systems;
* general knowledge of the Eritrean archival system;
* sufficient background to be able to apply Eritrean Standards in the creation, use and disposition of
current records, under the supervision of a senior archival staff;
* skills which enable staff to organize and describe archival fonds under the supervision of archival
senior staff;
* knowledge of basic techniques of preservation of any kind of format and record reproduction;
* an ability to information and monitor and manage activities in the archival reading room;
* knowledge of the most appropriate storage techniques for different kinds of archival media and
formats.
Conserving audio-visual and photographic records
The RDC, the Ministry of Information and, to a lesser degree, other Eritrean Ministries, have accumulated
an important collection of video, audio and photographic records and documents. The audio collection dates
to 1972 and contains 10,000 audiocassettes and 4,000 reel to reel recordings. The video collection consists
of 5,500 videocassettes and covers the period from 1974 until the present, and continues to add material to
its collection from locally produced TV programs. To avoid deterioration of the materials due to improper
housing and technical obsolescence of the fornats, the RDC purchased equipment and supplies to transfer
old tapes to digital media. One fourth of the collection has been transferred, but the program has been
stopped because of a shortage of supplies and limited capacity to maintain the audio-visual equipment. The
project will funance training in the maintenance of the digital conversion equipment, more general training
with regard to the preservation of audio-visual and photograph material, and the purchase of equipment and
material to continue transferring the collection to digital formats.
Ecclesiastical manuscript preservation
There are around 15,000 manuscripts dating from the 14th and 15th century located in monasteries,
churches and mosques. These manuscripts, of religious contents, are written in Ge'ez (the early
ecclesiastical language) and some are illuminated and have a high artistic value. They also contain a
annotations in old Tigrinya in the margins that are a basic source of information of everyday life (details of
community disputes, customary law, registration of land ownership and individual local disputes). Apart
from their high artistic value, these manuscripts are the main source of information for pre-modem Eritrea
history and are also the only existing source for the study of the early Tigrinyan language. The RDC is
presently preparing an inventory of manuscripts and religious artifacts. The inventory has focused on the
fact that many manuscripts are poorly stored. Some monasteries keep them buried in caves, and few
facilities have proper libraries or shelves for their preservation. They are not accessible to researchers and
to scholarly community.
The project will finance storage units and shelving for a number of the most important monasteries and
churches which are leading repositories of maniuscripts. The objective of this activity is to ensure the
preservation of the manuscripts in the monasteries by providing safe storage areas and by teaching monks
- 37 -



and churchmen basic preservation skills. On a pilot basis, manuscripts from a selected group of
monasteries will be microfilmed and catalogued to make them more generally accessible to other scholars.
Microfilms will be stored in the RDC premises and will be used as a security copy, in case of physical
destruction of the original, and to provide access copies for researchers.
Private archives support
The Pavoni Center's library, an extensive private archive, is the result of the personal efforts of a single
person, an Italian Catholic priest. The library comprises a collection of about 40,000 volumes plus some
indefinite number of periodicals waiting to be bound, plus a collection of non-published materials and
booklets in specialized Eritrean, Ethiopian and African studies. The library is a remarkable source of
information for studies related to Eritrea and neighboring countries, and has special value for heritage
research because it contains books on linguistics, architecture, archaeology, arts and crafts, local traditions,
history and other subjects as well as many reference books, manuscripts catalogues, libraries and archives
catalogues, and dictionaries. The library is open to students and researchers. The books are organized by
general subject, but with little greater specificity. The library has no register or catalogue, and its
organization is largely the responsibility of the librarian, who is familiar with the location of the most
important information. The project will finance modest hardware and software to enable the Pavoni center
to begin preparation of a catalogue of the most important resources in the library.
Project Component 5 - US$0.40 million
Coordination and Manazement
In addition, the project will provide finance for the costs of Coordination and Management, including
Financial and Procurement Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ERITREA: Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
Prolec Cot- m           oYg                                        ~     Tt
1. Site Planning, Conservation and Museum Development        0.70          0.60           1.30
2. Conserving the Built Environment                           1.30          0.80          2.10
3. Supporting Living Culture                                  0.10          0.40          0.50
4. Documentation and Infotmation Management                   0.00          0.45          0.45
5. Coordination and Management                                0.20          0.15          0.35
Total Baseline Cost                                           2.30          2.40          4.70
Physical Contingencies                                      0.25           0.20          0.45
Prce Contingencies                                          0.15           0.10          0.25
Total Project Costs                2.70          2.70          5.40
Total Financing Required                 2.70          2.70          5.40
-~~~rjc -Cost By  atgry                       mihkn.U$ $mie    VS $,iif
Civil Works                                                    110            0.50           1.60
Goods and Equipment                                            0.05           0.70          0.75
Consulting Services and Training                               0.45           1.10           1.55
Grants                                                         0.50           0.10          0.60
Operating Costs                                                0.60           0.30           0.90
Total Project Costs       2.70           2.70          5.40
Total Financing Required        2.70           2.70          5.40
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 5.4 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 92.590/% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-.39 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
ERITREA: Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
In the context considered here, 'cultural heritage' includes both the material aspects of culture (for
example, historic sites and buildings, landscapes, and objects of particular historical, architectural,
aesthetic, or cultural significance) as well as non-material aspects such as social practices, symbolic forms
of expressions (for example, the arts, music, dance, oral traditions, literature, etc.), values and beliefs.
Summary of benefits and costs:
In light of the pilot nature of this project, only notional and qualitative economic analyses will be
undertaken a priori. The project is expected to generate a range of benefits associated with: a) experience
gained with various institutional partnership arrangements for cultural heritage conservation; b) improved
planning and site interpretation to accommodate conservation needs and tourism interests in cultural sites;
c) growth and poverty reduction associated with the development of enterprises to support built heritage
conservation; d) conservation of cultural assets which might otherwise have been lost, for example, to theft
or as a result of development, e) community involvement in cultural site conservation and management, f)
improved management of public records; and g) improved institutional capacity to formulate and
implement cultural asset management programs.
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness was carefully considered during project design. As pilot operations, interventions under
ail components are expected to be relatively small-scale and will seek to optimize the impacts of resource
use by developing partnership arrangements with domestic and international organizations such as Mrara
Art Association, Mahber Fikri Sine-Tibeb, ICCROM, and UNESCO. Site conservation activities are
expected to use local building materials and labor intensive methods. There is a very strong element of
capacity building in the project design, which is intended to contribute to longer-term sustainability.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
-40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ERITREA Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
Years Ending
June 30
I Year  I   Year 2  I Year 3       Year 4  I Year 5  i Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.8         1.8        1.4
Recurrent Costs              0.1        0.1        0.2
Total Project Costs            1.9        1.9        1.6        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing                1.9        1.9        1.6        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    1.7        1.8        1.5
Government                  0.1        0.1        0.1
Central                 0.0         0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0
Other sources               0.1        0.0        0.0
(Unidentified)
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     0o0         0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       1.9        1.9        1.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 41 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ERITREA. Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
Procurement
Procurement financed under the project will be limited to recruitment of consultants services, office
equipment, a limited number of vehicles, some civil works, grant-financed community-based activities, and
operating costs. An experienced Procurement Specialist in the Secretariat for the Steering Committee on
Cultural Heritage will be responsible for ensuring that procurement for works and goods is canied out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans andlDA Credits (dated
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and January 1999).
Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997, and revised
September 1997 and January 1999).
A General Procurement Notice will be published in United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and
will include a description of required services or goods, the client agency, and the budgeted cost. This
notice will be updated every year during the execution of the projects until all contracts and assignments
have been procured. In the case of contracts which are expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent,
Specific Procurement Notices will be issued seeking expressions of interest through the national press.
To the extent possible, procurement arrangements have been designed to respond to the need for flexible
use of procurement methods, given the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. A detailed
Procurement Plan, based on the inputs identified in Project Implementation Plan will be prepared within 6
months after Credit effectiveness, and this will be revised annually during preparation of the Annual Work
Program and Budget. Whenever possible, procurement items will be consolidated into appropriately-scaled
contracting packages.
To complement a LACI compatible financial management system, the Secretariat will also implement a
procurement management and monitoring system. This will be required to: (i) estimate cash forecasts for
withdrawals under the LACI system, and to (ii) monitor physical progress of outputs against contracts
committed.
Procurement Evaluation Committee
Most procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out by the Secretariat. Participating
agencies will be able to procure a limited number of small items (i.e. incremental operating expenditures
such as fuel, office supplies, DSA, etc.) to facilitate the timely execution of tasks. Procurement by each
implementing agency is not expected to exceed US$30,000 annually.
A Procurement Evaluation Committee (PEC) will be constituted by the Steering Committee to support the
implementation of the Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project. Its primary function will be to evaluate
tender documents for all goods, works, and services to be financed by the Project, and on the basis of these
evaluations, provide recommendations for contract awards. The Committee consists of:
Chainnan of the Secretariat, Project Coordinator
Procurement Specialist, Secretariat (Member & Secretary)
Finance/Accountant, Secretariat (Member)
Other members to be assigned on an ad hoc basis
- 42 -



The presence of all PEC members will be required for all bid evaluations.
Goods and equipment
Contracts for the procurement of goods (e.g. vehicles, computers and other office equipment not available
locally) would be packaged into larger contracts wherever possible. Goods with an estimated value of more
than US$150,000 per contract will be procured through International Competitive Bidding, using the Bank'
s Standard Bidding Documents (SBD). Goods, equipment, and furniture available locally with an
estimated value of more than US$50,000 per contract but less than US$150,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of about US$200,000 equivalent will be procured following National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures. Individual units of office equipment (individual fax machines, printers, laptop
computers and vehicles) may be purchased through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO)
of the United Nations, with an aggregate value not to exceed US$200,000. National and International
Shopping procedures, based on comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers in response to
written invitation, may be used for items available off-the-shelf for individual contracts of US$50,000
equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of about US$500,000. All ICB contracts will be subject to
Bank prior review. In addition, the first three contracts procured under NCB will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.
Civil works
Civil works to be carried out under this project are expected to consist of small contracts mostly under
US$100,000 and therefore no procurement under ICB procedures is envisaged. Individual contracts for
civil works under US$75,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000 will be procured through
quotations with the use of lump sum contract procedures, and on the basis of three quotations from
qualified contractors. It is envisaged that contracts for larger site conservation for which extensive
specialist skills are not required, and which cost more than US$75,000 but less than US$250,000 per
contract will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Smaller works executed under the
direct supervision of staff from the Implementing Agencies and costing less than US$30,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 may be procured through the use of simple selection methods
based on specific expertise required for the tasks, with payments made on the basis of performance of
measurable outputs, particularly where experienced specialist craftsmen and builders who have typically
been employed in the past are needed.
Consulting services and training
Consultancy services for all components of the project, including studies, technical assistance, supervision
of works, and training, requiring the recruitment of consulting finns or individual consultants will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers.
Individual consultants contracts and consulting firms contracts below the threshold of US$50,000 and
USS100,000 respectively may be awarded on the basis of qualifications and experience in accordance with
Bank guidelines. For these contracts, prior review will be required of all TORs, proposed budgets,
contracts, and consultant qualifications. Prior review will also be required of all single-source consultancy
or training contracts, regardless of their value. Contracts for individual consultants below US$50,000, and
for consulting fuims below US$ 100,000, will be subject to post-review. Technical evaluation reports for
- 43 -



contracts exceeding US$100,000 will require IDA's no-objection.
With regard to workshops, training, and study tours, prior review of arrangements related to participation
in workshops and training, including proposed budget, agenda, participants, location of training, and other
relevant details, will be required.
For most activities, however, prior review will be limited to ICB and to contracts above the thresholds
stated above. IDA may request prior review of bid documents, evaluation methods and contracts for which
they require more detailed information. Similarly, any request for no objection from Secretariat will be
formally replied by IDA.
Post review
Under the project, the procurement actions not subject to prior review as described above, above will be
subject to post-review. This to allow for fast disbursement of funds while assuring transparency and
consistency with these procedures. All documentation used for the procedures of contracting, recruitment
of consulting services, evaluation and award shall be retained by the Secretaniat for gubgequent
examination by independent auditors and IDA supervision missions. The number, timing and pattern of
supervision missions will be determined at the start of the implementation program.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Procurement Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements (USS million)
Procurement       National      Local and    Small Works/   From UN     Consulting    Non- Bank      Total
Requirements     Competitive   Intemational   Community    Agencies       Services     Financed
Bidding      Shopping       Grants
A. Civil Works           1.0            -            0.5           -                         0.1           1.6
(0.9)                       (0.4)                                   (0.1)        (1.4)
B. Goods and                           0.5                        0.2            -            -           0.7
Equipment                             (0.5)                      (0.2)                                    (0.7)
C. Consulting                                                                   1.4          0.1           1.5
Services, Training,                                                            (1.4)        (0.0)         (1.4)
Audits 
D. Grants                             _ -            0.7                                      -           0.7
(0.7)                                                (0.7)
E. Operating Costs        -            0.8                         -             -           0.1          0.9
(0 (0.7)                         (__                   1)          (0.8)
Total                    1.0           1.3           1.2          0.2           1.4          0.3           5.4
(0.9)         (1.2)         (1.1)        (0.2)        (1.4)         (0.2)        (5.0)
Note: figure in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
-44-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts subject
Expenditure Category   Contract value        Procurement method                   to prior review
A. Civil Works /a       < $75,000            Quotations (up to an aggregate value of   first three
$400,000), awarded on the basis of   contracts
quotations obtained from three qualified
national contractors
> $75,000 but <      NCB                                   first three
$150,000                                                   contracts
B. Goods and           < $50,000             Shopping, for an aggregate not to     none
Equipment                                    exceed $500,000
> $50,000 but <      NCB, for an aggregate not to exceed   first three
$150,000             $200,000                              contracts subject
to prior review
> $150,000           ICB                                   All
Individual units of  IAPSO. Individual contracts not to    none
office equipment,    exceed $30,000 for an aggregate not to
fumiture, vehicles   exceed $200,000.
C. Consulting Services,   > $50,000 for      Individual Qualifications             All
Training, Audits       individuals
> $100,000 for firms;   QCBS                               All
< $50,000 for        Qualifications. Sole sourcing may be  TORs, budget,
individuals or <     allowed subject to clauses 3.8 to 3.11 of   qualifications,
$100,000 for firms;    the Guidelines.                     contract
Workshops, training,   Acceptable national practice        All
study tours
D. Grants               < $30,000            Small-works or community contracts    None
E. Operating Costs     All operating costs   Acceptable national commercial        None
and field expenses   practice.
______________________  Project support staff   Individual Qualifications.       All
a/    For individual small works contracts valued less than $75,000, up to an aggregate amount of S 400,000 fixed price
contracts may be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified national contractors. Civil works
contracts over $75,000 but under $ 150,000 will be procured following NCB procedures.
NCB --         National Competitive Bidding
IAPSO --       Interagency Procurement Services Organization of the UN
QCBS --        Quality and Cost-Based Method
ICB -          Intemational Competitive Bidding
- 45 -



Disbursement
Allocafion of credit proceeds (Table C)
All disbursements will be handled in a manner which is consistent with the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook, and as described in the Development Credit Agreement. Funds will be disbursed over 3 year
period, planned to begin in August 2001. The Completion Date will be July 31, 2004 and the Closing Date
will be January 31, 2005. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented,
except for expenditures for operating costs and for contracts with a value of $50,000 or less for goods and
equipment, $75,000 or less for civil works, $20,000 or less for grants, and for consultant services under
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals for which reimbursements may be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation will be retained by the Secretariat and will
be available for inspection and review as requested by IDA Supervision Missions and by project auditors.
A review of accounting and financial management systems concluded that, while the Secretariat's financial
management system is basically sound, it is currently not capable of complying with Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) Guidelines. The following steps will need to be carried out before the Secretariat
is able to meet LACI requirements:
*   development of a Chart of Accounts, appropriate for the project;
*   development of a LACI compatible financial reporting format acceptable to the Bank;
Provided these steps are taken, it is envisaged that the Secretariat should be LACI capable within 18
months from the date of effectiveness. Once the Secretariat is assessed to be LACI capable, the Credit
Agreement will be amended to reflect that disbursements are to take place on the basis of Project
Management Reports thereafter. In this event, it envisaged that the project will adopt streamlined
disbursement procedures once LACI Guidelines have been met. The decision to adopt streamlined
disbursement procedures will be made in consultation with a Bank Financial Management Specialist who
Will:
*  review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submissions, operation of the Special
Account. SOE submissions and documentation retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of
project management and accounting staff;
*   ensure that the Special Account has been reconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
*  review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues;
* review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
an opinion on the reliability of project accounts.
Once the Secretariat is assessed to be LACI capable, the Credit Agreement will be amended to reflect that
disbursements are to take place on the basis of Project Management Reports thereafter.
It is envisaged that one Special Account, acceptable to IDA, will be established. The authorized allocation
of this accounts will be US$500,000. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account should be
submitted to IDA every month under normal circumstances, but in any event, not less frequently than once
every three months.
Five disbursement categories are envisaged: civil works, goods and equipment, consulting services and
training, grants, and operating costs.
- 46 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
On' ixpnditur Categoy              iAmount inUS$million       ,     inanctng      .
1. Civil Works                               1.30                         90 %
2. Goods and Equipment                       0.60                  100 % of foreign costs
90 % of local costs
3. Consulting Services, Training, Audits     1.20                         100 %
4. Grants                                    0.80                         100 %
5. Operating Costs                           0.60                         90 %
Unallocated                                  0.50
Total Project Costs                          5.00
Total                                        5.00
Note: Operating costs are defined to include building, equipment, and vehicle maintenance costs; fuel, small
purchases of office supplies, building rental charges. utilities, internet access, telephone charges, staff
travel and subsistence expenses not elsewhere provided, and project support staff (but excluding civil
servants' salaries.)
- 47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ERITREA: Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
ProJect Schedule                            .          .....                     Act-at
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                      6
First Bank mission (identification)                                             01/24/2000
Appraisal mission departure                                                     11/07/2000
Negotiations                                                                    05/15/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                                   08101/2001
Prepared by:
Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, State of Eritrea.
The Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage is comprised of:
Naigzy Gebremehdin, Chairman, Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage;
Eritros Abraham, Office of the President;
Yohannes Tecle Haimanot, Municipality of Asmara;
Alemseged Tesfai, Oral History Project (PFDJ);
Zemhret Yohannes, PFDJ;
Azeib Tewelde, Research and Documentation Center;
Solomon Tsehaye, Cultural Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Education;
Yosef Libsikel, National Museums of Eritrea;
Kidane Solomon, Ministry of Tourism;
Daniel Tesfalidet, Ministry of Finance (ex officio);
Kesete Abraha, Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage, Secretariat (ex officio)
Preparation assistance:
International Council on Archives
ICCROM (International Center for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
;NqgblqrName                                     Speclity
Peter Dewees                       Team Leader
Naima Hasci                        Social Scientist and Cultural Heritage Specialist
Arlene Fleming                     Peer reviewer
Kreszentia Duer                    Peer reviewer
Iraj Talai                         Financial Management Specialist
Brighton Musungwa                  Financial Management Specialist
Francesco Sarno                    Procurement Specialist
-48 -



Additional assistance in preparing the project was provided by:
Joseph King, Site Conservation Specialist, ICCROM (consultant to the Bank)
Montserrat Canela Garayoa, Archival Specialist, International Council on Archives (consultant to the
Bank)
Brevio Peppo, Architect (consultant to the Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage)
Dawit Debessay, Architect (consultant to the Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage)
Zahra Mekki, Architect (consultant to the Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage)
Prof. Ezra Gebremehdin, Ecclesiastical Manuscripts Specialist, Department of Theology, Uppsala
University (consultant to the Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage)
Prof. Paolo Marrasini, Ecclesiastical Manuscripts Specialist, Universita degli Studi di Firenze, Italy,
(consultant to the Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage)
Dr. Ghirmai Negash, Oral traditions specialist, Leiden University, (consultant to the Steering
Committee on Cultural Heritage)
-49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ERITREA: Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Eritrea Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project, Project Implementation Plan
Working Paper 1: Site Planning and Conservation
Working Paper 2: Conserving the Built Environment
Working Paper 3: Supporting Living Cultures
Working Paper 4: Documentation and Information Management
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Eritrea Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project Procurement Assessment (LACI), Francesco Sarno (April
15, 2000)
Eritrea Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project, Financial Management Capacitv Assessment, Brighton
Musungwa (February 12, 2001)
C. Other
Peer Reviewers Comments on the PID and Logframe
Arlene Fleming, 2/26/2000
Kreszentia Duer, 2/28/2000
Peer Reviewers Comments on the PAD
Arlene Fleming, 11/02/2000
Kreszentia Duer, 11/02/2000
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ERITREA: Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
May-2001
Difference between experted
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                         Cancel,   Undisb.        Ong   Frm Rev'd
P068463       2001 INTEGRATED EARLYCHILOHOOD PROJECT                  0.00      40.00                            0.00      35.41      0.90       0.00
P065713       2001 HNVIAIDS, MALARIA, STDS& TS CONTROL                0.00      40.00                            000       39.09      0.22       0.00
P044674       2001 EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION                           0.00      90.00                            0.00      49.31      -3.05      0.00
P034154       1998 PORTS                                              0.00      30.30                            0.00      15.01     12.42       0.00
P050354       1998 HUMAN RES.DEV                                      0.00      53.00                            0.00      21.83      0.98       0.00
P043124       1998 HEALTH PROJECT                                     0.00      18.30                            0.00      11.70      9.71       0.54
P044651       1997 ROAD ENGR. CREDIT                                  0.00       6.30                            0.00      0.23       0.52       0.00
P039264       1996 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND                         0.00      17.50                            0.00      0.41       1.56       0.00
Total:       0.00      295.40                           0.00      172.98      23.25      0.54
- 51 -



ERITREA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                SEF Tesinma                     0.73    0.21     0.00    0.00     0.40    0.21     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          0.73    0.21     0.00     0.00     0.40    0.21     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi     Panic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 52 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ERITREA Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan       Low-
Eritma     Africa   income      Development diamond
1"99
Population. mid-vear (millions)                         4.0       842     2 417                  Life expectancy
GNP ner capita (Atlas method. USSI                     200        500       410
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       0.79       321       988
Averaoe annual arowth. 1993-99
Pooulation fX)                                          2.7       2 6        1 9
Labor force(%l                                          2.7       2.6       2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate llatest yer available. 1993-991 c)pit
Povertv f% of ooulation below national oovertv line)
Urban coculation (% of iotafoouletion)                   18        34        31
Life eoectancyv at birth (vesrs)                        51         50        60
Infant mortalitv trow 1.000 live births)                81         92        77
Child malnutrition f% of children under 5)               44        32        43                Access to safe vater
Access to imoroved water source (% of ooulationl          7        43        64
illiteracy (% of ooulatbon aoe 15+)                     47         39        39
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of school-ase oooulation)   53         78        98        _EriMsa -        Low-incomn group
Male                                                  59         8S       102
Female                                                48         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    11989      199t      1999
EconomIc ratloe
GDP (USS billions)                              ..               0.68      0.67
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                    47.2      44.6                     Trade
ExDorts of oods and services/GDP                                 18 0      14.9
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                                       -24.5     -20.1
Gross natonal savinoslGDP                                        12.2      14.0
Current account balance/GDP                                      .35.0     -32.6     Domestic
Interest oavmentslGDP                                             05         03      Savings                     rInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                                   20.8      33.5
Total debt servicelexDorts                                         1 5       1 4
Present value of debtGODP
Present value of debt/exoorts                   ..
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(averae annual orowth)
GDP                                            5.2      3.9       3.0        61 tEriles                  Low-inome group
GNP oer caoita                                 1.8     -5.8      -1.0        3.5
Exoorts of ooods and services                 -1 6    -46.6      -4.0      16.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of investment end GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aoriculture                                             6 .9     16.1      16.0
Industrv                                               33.6      274       27.3    10
Manufacturino                                        30.0       14.1      139
Services                                               49.5      56.5      58. 6        o            _       _
Private consumotion                                              75 5      7215      -s          is    5    ST    t    I
General oovernment consumotion                                   49.0      47.6                     GDI    _GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                                    87.6      79.5
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999      Growth of exports and Inports (Y)
(av raoe annual arowth)
Aoriculture                                                                          o
I ndustrv                                                                           ro
Manufacturino                                                                      40
Services                                                                             e
Private consumoton                                                                  20       4    1        t    C
General oovernment consumotion                                                      40
Gross domestic investment                                                           40
Imoorts of ooods and services                          124        1.5      -10.0                  Epat      Imports
Gross national oroduct                                  486      -3.2        1.9
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates. GOP components are estimated at factor cost.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv fin bold) comoared with its income-orouD averaoe, It data are missino. the diamond %vill
be incomolete
- 53 -



Eritrea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation
Domestic pneces
(A5 change)                                                                         40
Consunmer prices                                                 16.6       8.3    3:
ImpicdtGDP deflator                                               27       126      2
Govemment ffnance                                                                   la
(56 of GDP inctudes current grants)                                                  a
Current revenue                                                  34.8      29 2             94    95   96   97    99    "I
Current budget balance                                          -11.6    -1 62                   GDP defletor    0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -41 4     -50.2
TRADE
(US$ m,lins)                                1979     1989       I        1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                                28        26    so0
n.a.
Manufactures                                                      7               400
Total imports (af)                                                527       507
Food                                           -75                                200
Fuel and energy                                                   6
Capital goods                                                   139                 o
Esoort orice index (1995=100)                                                            93  94   95   X    S    98
Imnoort orice index (19950=100)                                                                *r Exports     * imports
Terms af trade (1995=100)
:-ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mrtlons)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                                     109       100     20
Imports of goods and services                                     597       562     I:
Resource balance                                                 -488      -4d2
Net income                                                          4         3 o 
Net current transfers                                             246       240     10
Current acoount balance                                          -238      -219     20
Financing tems (net)                                               73      227    U0
Changes in net reserves                                           165        -8
memo:
Reserves incdudina oold (USS millions)                            145       122
CnrnvmPinn rat. (DOEC loca)AJSS)                                  7.4       B 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS midlions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (USS milL)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              142       225
IBRD                                                              0                                G0                    I
IDA                                                              37        56
Total debt service                                                  4         3
IBRD                                                              0         0
IDA                                                               0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                      E 100
Official grants                                                  74
Offiaal creditors                                                65        69
Private creditors                                                 0         0
Foreign direct investment                                         0
Portfolio equity                                                  0                                            4
World Bank program
Commitments                                                      53         0         A- IBRD                 E - BialerI
Disbursements                                                     6        16     8- IDA    D- Other multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                                              0         0        IMF                      n-st-m 
Net flovs                                                         6        16
Interest payments                                                 0         0
Net transfers                                                     6        16
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/21/00
-54 -



180           ~~~~~37'                    3
This map u,os prodvced by the                                                                                                                                      SAUDIARABI
Map Design Unit of The Wosidod h                          |                                                                                                        SAUDI ARABBIoA|
The houn4ores, colors, clenonm;noiion-
ond anyother inlornotin shown o                                                                                                                                                             I/
this map do not imply, on ,he part of                                Mare<o  Ie
The World Bank Group, ciny judgment
on,'''^'''2: ther                  r      _eg>-sAtuf of' an 'ert,o
ony endorserment or occepton- ot                                                                                                            ISO     -t -i,
such boundories.                C5                                                                                          0                5
SUDAN                                                                                                                       PROJCT 
16 ~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                             oGj  ,} Sk. 
-~NAKFA: INDEPENDENCE-/''
WAR RUINS (19635                "\E i   -            bf 1- C
/   37e RiE 38n \ AN EI@                    jiA&.5 t I\9^r
'pUD9uIe     A-RADI0            . .  ob  .:
AJ                                                                                                                         m
2                    0                    -g> -                         '           .                             b\BRE BIZEN MoNASTERY (1361 AD)   A, 
I"       Krn0    -i^                                      -    -    MAO   ROADSe                                                      '\ MOeasi, t                  - i 
Snhderot  ,                                    Meleeooooi.-'' R                                                                         JEnONe  A  ",   w     8 "
|~~~~~e. C,, ETIPA07 /                                       9      NTOA    APTLr ojo \                                                                                  7 \       #     .
To Kassala       )                     /Tgot      -'- INErgNATIO  B             OUES                     ,.        D                                                                        -
o '' JS   ejAy  o;    / G             B RKAf ENL                                                                                                                  / 
Tenseney  Ad         P~     ~~ \TU ee G,er 1
amgrnd         T,,,   GAre M,~ /1                                                                                                                ,A aFo
Btoghnln                        ~~~~~~ASMAPA: TAGLIERO (1 937)   ~     nei---  DPI  0CRI~,
ARAB RE   GfT      0n ~                                                                       ;-it'5:)                                                   - .            ,
SAUDI ARABIA
-20'                                            20                                                                                        "      Ato,n
~~ ~-~~--'I ~MAJOR ROADS
REP. OF YEMEN                          -     SECONDARY ROADS 
SUDAN           ' 1                        ------   RAILIROADS
-~~           -------  ~~RIVERS                                  ETHIOPIA 
ti     SELECTED TOWNS
10              @      ~~~~REGION CAPITALS                                                                     -Dbcse            Rbt
L  EThIOPIA         ~~     ~~7 .*                           NATIONAL CAPITALTOLgy
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                ToNrt                
>                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           DIO         T
0                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A2'  13
00'.3I EYA40



