Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3547 ER 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
THE STATE OF ERITREA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  July 9, 2001 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3547 ER 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 2001, between THE STATE OF ERITREA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:  
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
‘12. 
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of 
the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
“Participating Countries” means, collectively, all such countries.’ ; and 
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories; 
(c) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Cultural Affairs Bureau” means the Cultural Affairs Bureau of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(f) 
“Steering Committee” means the existing Steering Committee on 
Cultural Heritage established by the Borrower in its Ministry of Finance and operating 
under the Borrower’s laws; 
(g) 
“the National Museums” means the National Museums of Eritrea, 
established and operating under the Borrower’s laws; 
(h) 
“the Eritrean Conservation Fund” means the Eritrean Conservation Fund 
referred to in Part B.1 (a) of the Project to be established under the Borrower’s laws; 
(i) 
“Subproject” means an activity or other initiative to be carried out by 
Beneficiaries under Part B of the Project which having met the eligibility criteria set out 
in the Project Implementation Manual and the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
is eligible for financing, on a grant basis, in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
(j) 
“Grants” means the grants to be provided under Part B.1 of the Project; 
(k) 
“Beneficiary” means an individual, group of persons, a private sector 
entity or an NGO, which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
which, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive, a Grant for the carrying out of a 
Subproject; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(l) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, determined by the 
Borrower and the Association as capable of assisting in the fulfillment of the objectives 
of the Project; 
(m) 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations;  
(o) 
“Financial Reporting System” means the financial reporting system 
referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(p) 
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 5 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Nakfa” means currency of the Borrower;  
(r) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
(s) 
“Initial Deposit” means the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation 
Manual referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(u) 
“Chart of Accounts” means the Chart of Accounts referred to in 
paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(v) 
“PEC” means the Procurement Evaluation Committee referred to in 
paragraph 2 (f) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower 
on account of withdrawals made under a Grant to meet the reasonable costs of goods, 
works and services required for a Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Page  5
-
4
-
Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 2011 and ending May 1, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2021 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Page  6
-
5
-
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, cultural assets conservation and management practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03 The Borrower shall: (i) open and thereafter maintain, until completion 
of the Project, an account in a bank to be used exclusively to meet the costs of the Project 
not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) deposit into the Project Account for each 
calendar quarter, no later than the first day of the calendar quarter, the amount of the 
Borrower’s quarterly counterpart contribution to Project costs for such quarter, as 
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Association; and (iii) deposit into 
the Project Account an initial amount of Nakfa 350,000. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  9
-
8
-
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)  
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has opened the Project Account 
and deposited the Initial Deposit. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being responsible for 
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
P. O. Box 895 
 
Asmara 
 
Eritrea 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
583492421150   
291 1 127947 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.
 
64145
(MCI) 
Page  11
-
10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
THE STATE OF ERITREA 
 
By /s/   Girma Asmerom 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/    Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  12
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil Works  
1,025,000 
90%  
(2) 
Goods 
475,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
(3) 
Consultants’ 950,000 
100% 
 services, 
workshops, 
 
training, study tours 
 and 
audits 
(4) 
Grants 
630,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
475,000 
90% 
(6) Unallocated 
445,000 
 
________
TOTAL 4,000,000 
 
=======  
Page  13
-
12 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
 the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, communications, transport, travel, supervision costs and Project support staff 
but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with eligibility 
criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Project Implementation 
Manual and Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts costing less than 
$75,000 equivalent each; (iii) consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding: (A) 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants; and (iv) Operating Costs and training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a separate special deposit 
account, in a bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 
1; and 
Page  14
-
13 -
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this  
Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports. 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
 
intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  15
-
14 -
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
Page  17
-
16 -
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
17 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the  
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000. 
Page  19
-
18 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the conservation and 
management of its cultural assets as an integral part of the development of its economy. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Site Planning, Conservation and Museum Development
1. 
The carrying out by the National Museum of Eritrea of community-based 
management planning through: 
(a) 
a systematic pilot archeological site inventory of the greater Asmara 
area; 
 
(b) 
a community-based management planning exercise for Qohaito and 
Nakfa pilot sites; and 
 
(c) 
management, conservation and development actions to address priority 
needs identified by the exercise undertaken under Part A.1 (b) above. 
2. 
The planning, design and rehabilitation, under the supervision of the Secretariat 
of the Steering Committee and based on the advice of the Steering Committee, of the 
National Museum in Asmara for the conservation of the Borrower’s cultural assets and 
heritage, including: (i) the determination of the objectives and functions of, and the 
development of a functional plan and a management structure for, the Museum; (ii) the 
carrying out, by the Secretariat of the Steering Committee, of the first phase of renovation 
work for the Museum; and (iii) the development of links by the Museum with secondary 
education institutions in Asmara. 
Part B
:
Conservation of the Built Environment
1. 
The integration of urban economic growth and poverty reduction programs with 
the conservation of the architectural heritage of Asmara, Massawa and other Eritrean 
cities, through: 
(a) 
the design and operation, on a pilot basis, of a legally constituted 
conservation fund (the Eritrean Conservation Fund) to provide support (including grants 
to the private sector and to communities) for the carrying out of subprojects and other 
activities for the restoration of buildings and public spaces for adaptive re-use and the 
carrying out of agreed building conservation activities, in accordance with criteria set out 
or referred to in the Project Implementation Manual; 
Page  20
-
19 -
(b) 
the strengthening of the capacity of small enterprises working in the 
building trades, including: (i) support and training for small-scale enterprise development 
for the restoration of cultural assets and training in the building trades (including the 
establishment of the small Seranda Workshop in Massawa); and (ii) assisting in the 
restoration of the architecturally significant “Covered Walkway” in the center of 
Massawa; 
(c) 
small-scale enterprise development, including the selective conservation 
and adaptive re-use of the Borrower’s Alfa Romeo Center in Asmara as: (i) an exhibition 
and studio space for the Asmara arts community; and (ii) a training facility for a new 
generation of artisans and crafts people; and 
(d) 
improving and reviving community and public services and assets of 
significant cultural value, through: (i) the conservation of several of Asmara’s theaters for 
their re-use by the community, including the carrying out of preliminary planning and 
emergency conservation works at the Teatro Asmara and the Capitol Theater; and (ii) the 
improved use of public spaces, including: (A) the carrying out of conservation works of 
the Central Post office, (B) the revival of the community-based use and management of 
two of Asmara’s piazzas and parks for social and cultural events, and (C) the provision of 
support to the ancient monastery of Debre Bizen including the building of an archive for 
its collection of ancient ecclesiastical manuscripts, and the opening of a small museum at 
the site of the monastery. 
2. 
(a) 
The development of a basic set of conservation building skills through: 
(i) the provision for skilled cadre of knowledgeable craftspeople, of a pilot training 
course on building preservation and conservation at the Asmara Technical School and 
other suitable small urban centers; and (ii) the holding of additional courses and 
workshops for unskilled and unemployed laborers to provide them with basic training in 
building preservation and conservation skills. 
(b) 
Improving the capacity for conservation planning through a series of 
priority planning initiatives for Asmara, including: (i) clarifying and formalizing the 
boundaries of the historic perimeter of Asmara; (ii) improving the regulatory framework 
for built heritage conservation; and (iii) preparation of selected conservation plans 
supported by targeted mapping and cadastral surveys. 
Part C
:
Supporting Living Culture
1. 
Reviving oral traditions and folklore through: (i) the documentation of oral 
poetry from known griots and griottes of Eritrea; (ii) the preservation of the poetry for 
future publication and dissemination in primary and secondary schools; (iii) the 
documentation and classification of material collected; and (iv) the cataloguing, and the 
making of transcriptions of the text of the catalogued material. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s Cultural Affairs Bureau to carry out 
Part C.1 of the Project, including: (i) the establishment of partnership arrangements with 
persons and organizations concerned with the revival of oral traditions and folklore and 
Page  21
-
20 -
the utilization of technical advisory services; (ii) the provision of training and training 
material and the holding of field studies for staff of the Cultural Affairs Bureau; and (iii) 
arranging for traditional oral poets and storytellers to perform at festivals and workshops. 
3. 
The collection of oral history through the carrying out of field studies and the 
provision of training by the Borrower in collaboration with the appropriate local 
institutions. 
Part D
:
Document and Information Management
Development of a system of management of national and regional archives, 
through: (i) the strengthening of existing capacity for the management of such archives, 
including: (A) the training of personnel at the national and regional levels in such 
archival management, and (B) the provision of other capacity building support; (ii) the 
acquisition  of equipment and information management technologies to assist in the 
establishment of a user-friendly system of information retrieval; and (iii) the provision of 
support for the management of the Borrower’s Pavoni Center collections in Asmara, 
records of Asmara’s Municipal building plan and other public and private archives. 
Part E
:
Coordination and Management
Coordination and management of Project activities, including: (i) financial and 
procurement management, and (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2004. 
Page  22
-
21 -
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Cons
ultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Page  23
-
22 -
Individual units of office equipment (e.g. individual fax machines, printers, and 
laptop computers), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
5. Community 
Participation
Works executed under the direct supervision of Project executing agencies 
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $200,000 equivalent, involving work based on specific expertise shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or more; and (ii) the first three contracts procured on the basis of national 
competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
Page  24
-
23 -
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
2. 
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  25
-
24 -
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than: (i) $100,000 equivalent per contract in the 
case of consulting firms; and (ii) $50,000 equivalent per contract in the case of individual 
consultants, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of: (A) consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (B) individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (ii) the terms of 
reference of every contract; (iii) the proposed budgets for every contract; (iv) the 
qualification of all consultants; (v) all single source consultancy and training contracts, 
and contracts for workshops and study tours, irrespective of the value of such contracts; 
Page  26
-
25 -
and (vi) each contract for the services of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent 
of less than $25,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26 -
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Part A
:
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. The 
Project Implementation Manual shall outline all procedures, guidelines, timetables and 
criteria required for the Project, including the procurement and disbursement procedures 
and the eligibility criteria for Subprojects and Grants; and 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual if, in the opinion of 
the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee on Cultural 
Heritage in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association. The Steering Committee shall be responsible for: (i) facilitating activities 
required under the Project; (ii) setting priorities for Project executing agencies; and (iii) 
mobilizing resources for accomplishing the Project’s objectives regarding cultural asset 
management. 
(b) 
The membership of the Steering Committee shall include representatives 
of the following organizations: (i) the Research and Documentation Center; (ii) the 
National Museums of Eritrea (University of Asmara); (iii) the People’s Front for 
Democracy and Justice; (iv) the Ministry of Education; (v) the Ministry of Tourism; (vi) 
the Ministry of Finance; (vii) the Office of the President; and (viii) the Municipalities of 
Asmara and Massawa. Without limiting the preceding provisions of this subparagraph (a) 
the membership of the Steering Committee shall be subject to modification by the 
Borrower. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall maintain the existing Secretariat of the Steering 
Committee, established by the Borrower in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. The Secretariat shall be responsible for: (i) the 
operation and maintenance of a systematic monitoring and reporting system under the 
Project; and (ii) the day-to-day coordination and management of the Project. The staff of 
the Secretariat shall include: (i) a Chairman and Project Coordinator; (ii) a Project 
accountant and a Procurement Specialist; and (iii) a Monitoring and Evaluation 
Specialist, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
(d) 
The Secretariat shall be assisted in the carrying out of its functions by the 
following agencies, namely: (i) the Borrower’s Research and Documentation Center; (ii) 
the National Museums of Eritrea; and (iii) the Cultural Affairs Bureau. The said agencies 
Page  28
-
27 -
shall have primary responsibility for the day to day carrying out of various components of 
the Project as set out in the Project Implementation Manual. 
(e) 
The Borrower shall no later than three months after the Effective Date 
establish and thereafter maintain a Procurement Evaluation Committee in a form and with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. PEC shall assist the 
Borrower in the procurement of goods, works and services under the Project. Its 
functions shall also include: (i) the evaluation of tender documents for all goods, works 
and services to be procured under the Project; and (ii) on the basis of said evaluation, the 
making of recommendations to the Steering Committee regarding contract awards under 
the Project. 
(f) 
The membership of PEC shall comprise: (i) the Chairman of the 
Secretariat and the Project Coordinator; (ii) the Procurement Specialist in the Secretariat, 
as member and Secretary; (iii) the Accountant in the Secretariat; and (iv) such other 
members as the Borrower shall in consultation with the Association appoint. 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare a Chart of Accounts in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(b) 
no later than 6 months after the Effective Date  prepare a Financial 
Procedures Manual in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
install and maintain a financial Reporting System in a form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(d) 
prepare and furnish to the Association no later than 3 months after the 
Effective Date a procurement plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
said plan being subject to annual modification by agreement between the Borrower and 
the Association. 
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement: (i) the carrying out by the Borrower of the Project; and (ii) the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on: (i) the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project, during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project; and (ii) the achievement 
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
Page  29
-
28 -
(c) 
review with the Association by May 31 and November 30 of each year, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph 
(b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter; and 
(d) 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association no later than 
January 30 in each year of the Project an action plan (the Action Plan) including an 
annual work plan and budget and procurement plan in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2003, carry out jointly 
with the Association, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. 
The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things: (i) the progress made in meeting 
the objectives of the Project; and (ii) the overall performance by the Borrower of its 
obligations under the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than one month after the 
completion of the Midterm Review, the recommendations of the Midterm Review as 
agreed with the Association and set out in an action plan of the Project satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Part B
:
Subprojects and Grants
6. 
The Borrower shall enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association for the 
making of grants to Beneficiaries. The terms and conditions of each Grant Agreement 
shall inter
alia
:
(a) 
require the Beneficiary: (i) to carry out the Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and 
managerial standards; and (ii) to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating to the 
Subproject; 
(b) 
require the goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of 
the Grant shall: (i) to be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) to 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; and 
(c) 
reserve for the Borrower the right to: 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the Association 
shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents; 
Page  30
-
29 -
(ii) 
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the Beneficiary; and 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement. 
Page  31
-
30 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modification by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association: 
A. 
Site Planning, Conservation and Museum Development
1. 
Archeological inventory for Asmara is completed, and an evaluation of the 
inventory approach is completed to assess its potential for wider application. 
2. 
Community-based site conservation and management plans are prepared and are 
under implementation in Qohaito and Nakfa, and are evaluated for wider application. 
3. 
Institutional base, management structure, and mission statement for National 
Museums of Eritrea are determined. 
4. 
New museum facility is planned, and first phase of renovation is completed. 
B. 
Conserving the Built Environment
5. 
Eritrean Conservation Fund is established and is financing private sector and 
community-based conservation activities. 
6. 
Seranda Workshop is established and Covered Walkway in Massawa is 
renovated/restored. 
7. 
Alfa Romeo Building is conserved as exhibition space and studio space for 
Asmara arts community as a demonstration project. 
8. 
Conservation plans and emergency conservation works of Teatro Asmara and 
Capitol Theater are completed. 
9. 
Conservation plans and emergency conservation works of Central Post Office 
and of two city parks/piazzas (using community-based approaches) are completed. 
10. 
Archival/museum support mobilized for Debre Bizen monastery. 
11. 
Training program for skilled craftspeople and unskilled workers in building 
conservation carried out. 
12. 
Planning initiatives for Asmara are completed, which focus on improving the 
regulatory framework, the development of special conservation areas, and development 
of selected conservation plans. 
Page  32
-
31 -
C. 
Supporting Living Culture
13. 
Program of field studies and training in oral history and oral literature and 
traditions are carried out. 
14. 
Representative oral poetry is collected by supporting performance opportunities 
and workshops, material is documented and transcripted, and is included into educational 
curricula. 
15. 
Oral histories are collected, published, and disseminated. 
D. 
Documentation and Information Management
16. 
Program of overseas training in records management is completed, and local 
training program is developed and implemented. 
17. 
Training in maintenance of digital conversion equipment and of audio-visual and 
photographic material is carried out, and equipment/materials needed for conservation of 
audio-visual and photographic material is procured and deployed. 
18. 
Storage units for ecclesiastic manuscripts are procured and delivered to 
monasteries in conjunction with training in manuscript conservation. 
19. 
Training and equipment is provided to the Pavoni center to begin preparation of 
library catalogue.
 
