                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR0000708




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IDA-35470)

                                         ON A

                        LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN


     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                        TO THE


                                  STATE OF ERITREA


                                         FOR A


                 CULTURAL ASSETS REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                    30 January, 2008


Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development Unit (AFTCS)

Eritrea Country Department

Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective 30 January, 2008)

                                Currency Unit = Nakfa
                                  1.00 = US$ 0.067
                                    US$ 1.00 = 15

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1 ­ June 30


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAB Cultural Affairs Bureau
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs Community Based Organizations
DCA Development Credit Agreement
ECF Eritrea Conservation Fund
ECHO European Commission Humanitarian Office
EU European Union
IDA International Development Association
ISS Interim Support Strategy
KPI Key Performance Indicator
M&E Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF Ministry of Finance
MOND Ministry of National Development
MTR Mid-term Review
NGO Non-Governmental Organizations
OHP Oral History Project
PCU Project Coordination Unit
PDO Project Development Objective
PMT Project Management Team
RDC Research and Documentation Center
TA Technical Assistance
TTL Task Team Leader



                            Vice President: Obiageli Ezekwesili
                          Country Director: James Christopher Lovelace
                           Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
                       Project Team Leader: Roxanne Hakim
                         ICR Team Leader: June Taboroff

                                                    ERITREA
                             Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 9
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 14
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 20
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 24
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 26
 Annex 2. Outputs and KPIs and Ratings by Component...........
 Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........................... 1
 Annex 4. Lessons Learnt: Synthesis from Borrower's ICR ....................................................... 3
 Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................... 5
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Cultural Assets
Country:                Eritrea                Project Name:
                                                                      Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P058724                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35470
ICR Date:               01/31/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     LIL                    Borrower:              STATE OF ERITREA
Original Total
                        XDR 4.0M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 1.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of National Development
Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/29/2000     Effectiveness:       10/05/2001          10/05/2001
Appraisal:             11/08/2000     Restructuring(s):                        04/13/2004
Approval:              07/06/2001     Mid-term Review:                         04/13/2004
                                      Closing:             01/31/2005          07/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately                                    Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing           Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                         Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 5                 15
Other social services                                            95                 85


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction            Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                             Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         James Christopher Lovelace        Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:           Ian Bannon                         Roger C. Sullivan
Project Team Leader:      Roxanne Hakim                      Peter A. Dewees
ICR Team Leader:          June Taboroff
ICR Primary Author:       June Taboroff



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to test and develop approaches, on a pilot basis, for more
fully integrating the conservation and management of cultural assets into local and
national economic development. This will be achieved through a focus in part on the
architectural heritage in Asmara and other urban centers, on selected historical sites and
on written, oral and artistic traditions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                               ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                             approval          Target       Completion or
                                           documents)          Values       Target Years
              Eritrea has more resource centres and better documented resource materials on
              culture




Indicator 1 :




              Eritrea has more resource centers a
Value         National archives (RDC) Training &



                                             iii

quantitative or lacks equipment & skills equipment to RDC
Qualitative)    Private archives (Pavoni) Manuscripts
                not inventoried           inventoried
                No info on urban          Univ course in
                archaeological heritage   record mgmt estb
                                          Pavoni catalogued
                                          ACA used by
                                          planners
                                          Planning
                                          guidelines used by
                                          municip of A & M
                                          5 pub on
                                          Architecture
Date achieved 01/07/2000                  07/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Management of cultural resources illustrate and identify role and benefit for local
                govt, local community and technical bodies
                Devpt plans do not take
                archaeological sites into Archaeological
                consideration             survey of Amara
Value           No experience in          integrated with
quantitative or manageing restoration     dev plan
Qualitative)    works                     2 theatres restored
                No experience in          Model site mgmt
                managing archaeological plan for Qohaito
                sites
Date achieved 01/07/2000                  07/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Capacity and awareness of partner institutions and private sector is increased
                leading to a more active role in urban conservation planning
                No guidelines on urban    Historic area for A
                heritage mangmt           & M doc and
                No skills in supervising  planning

Value           restoration works         guidelines for A in

quantitative or No institution for        use by Munic.

Qualitative)    financial support to cul  Improvement in
                and conservation          skill pool for
                No capacity for           restoration
                supervision and           ECF established
                restoration in munici     with pilot projects
Date achieved 01/07/2000                  07/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Public is more exposed to culture through performance and publication of



                                                iv

               materials on archaeology, architecture, oral tradition and oral history, with
               special targeting to school children
                                          2 new exhibits in
                                          Museum
                                          Architecture books
               No materials accessible    in schools
               on architecture of A & M. Federal history

Value          Limited doc and            book

quantitative orawareness of oral history School reader on

Qualitative)   Oral traditions of 9       oral history
               ethnic groups not well     Oral tradition of 9
               documented or              grps done
               disseminated               Hist of stage
                                          performance
                                          TV drama film of
                                          Tigray story
Date achieved 01/07/2000                  07/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Good practices for cultural asset conservation activities are identified.
                                          Devpt plans take
                                          account of
                                          archeological
               No documentation of        assets
               good practises             LG and comm take

Value          No clear responsibilities lead on Qohaito

(quantitative  for managing cultural      plan

or Qualitative)assets                     Restoration of 2
               Mgmt of cul assets         theatres
               scattered and funding ad commenced
               hoc                        Guidelines for hist
                                          area of A in use
                                          ECF structure
                                          agreed
Date achieved 01/07/2000                  07/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                      IP                Disbursements
                                                                     (USD millions)
 1    11/07/2001        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.25
 2    12/19/2001        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.25
 3    05/01/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.30
 4    06/26/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.30
 5    12/18/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.43
 6    05/29/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.63
 7    11/26/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     1.00
 8    06/02/2004       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                    1.16
 9    12/15/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     1.46
10    02/03/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     1.64
11    06/29/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     1.64
12    12/21/2005        Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory              1.80

13    03/13/2006         Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                    1.82

14    09/15/2006         Moderately           Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                    1.91

15    12/19/2006         Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                    1.91

16    06/28/2007         Moderately           Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                    2.06



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at    Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                  Restructuring
              PDO Change                                      Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP    in USD
                                           millions
                                                       (a) Low disbursements due to
                                                       bottlenecks in implementation.
  04/13/2004        N         S      S         1.16    (b) Political developments
                                                       leading to changes in GOE
                                                       priorities.




                                        vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
The Eritrea Cultural Asset Rehabilitation Project was identified and prepared in the late 1990s,
at a time when the Government of Eritrea was beginning the process of rebuilding its economy
after the apparent close of the conflict with Ethiopia. The project was coincident with progress
being made in launching post-conflict activities oriented toward economic reconstruction and
recovery, and other social and economic programs with poverty reduction objectives.

It was consistent with the previous CAS's objectives related to capacity building and increasing
sources of growth and human resource and to the Interim Support Strategy for Eritrea that was
discussed by the Board in conjunction with its review of the Eritrea Emergency Reconstruction
Program in mid-November 2000. The Interim Support Strategy (ISS) articulated a program of
future Bank support for meeting near-term emergency humanitarian needs, for reconstruction,
and for Eritrea's wider economic recovery and development efforts. The ISS anticipated that, in
addition to supporting reconstruction and recovery, future lending would focus on community-
based development and education (among other things) complemented by activities to revive the
private sector that would be necessary to generate growth and employment. It is within this
framework that the Cultural Asset Rehabilitation Project was prepared.

Bank support for cultural asset conservation and management in Eritrea is an outcome of longer
term discussions with Government; the Bank first agreed to consider providing support to the
sector, at Government's request, in mid-1998. Appraisal of the project in November 2000 was
delayed nearly two years because of the outbreak of new hostilities with Ethiopia. The project
was approved eight months later in July 2001 without any updating or changes, and became
effective in October of the same year.

At the time of preparation and appraisal, the Bank was experimenting with small cultural heritage
projects, often LILs, in a number of post-conflict societies in sub-Saharan Africa, ECA and other
regions.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of Eritrea in testing
several approaches, on a pilot basis, for integrating poverty reduction and growth objectives
with the conservation and rehabilitation of the country's cultural assets, focusing in part on
the unique architectural heritage of Asmara and other urban centers, as well as on selected
historic sites, and on its rich written, oral and artistic traditions.   The project would work
closely with communities in historic areas and in urban sites, to revitalize their economic and
cultural life through conservation, for example by providing support for building skills, and for
small and medium-size building enterprises. Job creation and skills development were to be
supported through a modest civil works programs, and important groundwork for local tourism
laid. The project aimed to strengthen the management of public records in order to contribute to
the development of a historiography of Eritrea while improving the efficiency of the public sector.
The project would also strengthen the management of public records both to contribute to the
development of a historiography of Eritrea while improving the efficiency of the public sector.




                                                  1

 The loan was processed as a LIL because of its strong capacity building elements, the pilot
 nature of individual components for which technical, financial, and social solutions required
 testing, and the need for experimentation with different institutional/partnership arrangements
 with the private sector, government bodies, communities, local institutions, and groups of
 artisans, craftsmen, and builders.

 In regard to Key Indicators, at the national level, progress in meeting the project's Development
 Objectives was to be assessed by focusing on and disseminating good practices for cultural asset
 conservation and management activities piloted by the project, and the effectiveness of the
 Steering Committee in catalyzing action, setting priorities, and mobilizing resources for
 accomplishing national goals.

 The following indicators were originally proposed for the project components:
 Component A.      Site Planning and Conservation

· Site inventories, plans, and conservation activities, with a strong community-based growth and
   development orientation, are developed and under implementation at pilot sites. An evaluation
   mechanism is in place to ensure that the lessons from these pilots are captured Site inventories,
   plans, and conservation activities, with a strong community-based in the design of future
   interventions. The results from these evaluations are effectively disseminated.

· The National Museum is better able to deliver on its mandate of education, research, and
   exhibition, with trained staff and management, and improved facilities.

  Component B.       Conserving the Built Environment

· A `growth-oriented' planning process for urban architectural management and conservation is
   underway, and the capacity to carry out planning is improved. Guidelines for architectural
   management and conservation are developed and disseminated.

· A Conservation Fund is under implementation, designed to stimulate the private sector and to
   engage communities in urban architectural conservation, and is assessed for its effectiveness
   and sustainability. Results of the assessment are disseminated.

· Capacity for undertaking building conservation is improved in the building trades. Low income
   groups are targeted for training in specialized building trades related to conservation.

· Conservation of priority and targeted sites in Asmara and Massawa is completed, with a
   particular emphasis on improving community access to public services and spaces.

       Component C.      Supporting Living Cultures

· Traditions of oral literature are strengthened. Programs of training in oral history and oral
   literature and traditions are in place, and the management of information about oral history and
   literature is improved.

· Oral histories of various periods (i.e., pre colonial, Italian, British and Federal, and Ethiopian
   annexation and armed struggle, 1961-1991) are collected, disseminated, and incorporated into
   the educational curricula.

        Component D.     Documentation and Information Management

· The capacity for archives and records management is improved. Investments in improved
   records management technologies are made and are resulting in better records conservation.


                                                   2

· Asmara municipal building records are made more accessible through improved management.

· Inventory of arts and manuscripts in religious institutes (both Christian and Muslim) is
   undertaken, and appropriate storage facilities for safe keeping of parchments and other
   manuscripts is provided to selected monasteries.


 PDO Indicators            1. Good practices for cultural asset conservation activities are
                           identified.
                           2. Regional and local governments gain perspectives on how cultural
                           asset management can generate benefits.
                           3. Partners in the private sector take a more active role in cultural
                           asset conservation.
                           4. Other local institutions are more fully involved in cultural asset
                           management and use.



 1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
 reasons/justification
 The MTR took place in April 2004, with the project moving to another sector unit and the
 appointment of a new Team Leader. Although extensive changes were introduced in an effort to
 reduce implementation bottlenecks and accommodate the changing priorities of the Government,
 Management and the Task Team chose to retain the original PDOs rather than formally
 restructure the project. There was agreement within the Bank team and with implementing
 partner agencies that the retained and new cluster of activities would continue to contribute to the
 PDO. Thus while some activities had changed in form, they were still focused to the original
 PDO. In retrospect, it may have been more realistic to eliminate the poverty reduction and
 growth aspects of the development objective as Government support for community and private
 sector involvement was waning, tourism prospects were problematic, and expansion of the
 economy was uncertain.       At the MTR some activities were dropped, some new activities
 introduced, and others amended (see Section 1.6). In view of these changes and the history of
 slow implementation, the new Bank team and the PCU developed refined PDO outcome
 indicators with clear benchmarks as below.

 PDO Indicator                    Baseline as on 01/07/2000         End of Project Status as on
                                                                    31/07/2007
 1. Eritrea has more resource     National archives (RDC)           Training and equipment to
 centres and better               lacks equipment & skills.         RDC. Islamic and Christian
 documented resource              Private archives (Pavoni) not     manuscripts inventoried.
 materials on culture.            inventoried. No info on urban     University course in record
                                  archaeological heritage.          management established.
                                                                    Pavoni Center library of the
                                                                    Horn of Africa catalogued.
                                                                    Asmara Center for
                                                                    Architecture used by
                                                                    planners. Planning guidelines
                                                                    on historic perimeter used by
                                                                    Municipalities of Asmara &



                                                   3

                                                                Massawa. Five publications
                                                                on architecture on the market.
2. Management of cultural        Development plans do not       Archaeological survey of
resources illustrate and         take archaeological sites into Amara complete and
identify role and benefit for    consideration. No experience   integrated with development
local government, local          in bidding and managing        plan of Asmara. Two
community and technical          restoration works. Limited     theatres under restoration.
bodies.                          surveying capacity and no      Model site management plan
                                 experience in managing         for Qohaito archeological site
                                 archaeological sites.          prepared.
3. Capacity and awareness of     No guidelines on urban         Historic area for Asmara and
partner institutions and         heritage management. No        Massawa documented and
private sector is increased      skills in supervising          planning guidelines for
leading to a more active role    restoration works. No          Asmara developed and in use
in urban conservation            institution for financial      by Municipality.
planning                         support to culture and         Improvement in skill pool
                                 conservation. No capacity for and resource base for
                                 supervision and restoration    restoration works. Eritrean
                                 works in Municipality of       Conservation Fund
                                 Asmara.                        established with pilot projects
4. Public is more exposed to     No materials accessible on     Two new exhibits in National
culture through performance      architecture of Asmara and     Museum. Architecture books
and publication of materials     Massawa. Limited               in market and schools. Oral
on archaeology, architecture,    documentation and awareness    history books on Federal
oral tradition and oral history, of oral history. Oral          period and school reader.
with special targeting to        traditions of 9 ethnic groups  Oral tradition of 9 ethnic
school children.                 poorly documented or           groups catalogued and
                                 disseminated                   disseminated. History of
                                                                stage performance published.
                                                                TV drama film of Tigre story
                                                                disseminated. School visits
                                                                to archaeological sites.
Intermediate outcome
indicator(s)
1. Good practices for cultural   No documentation of good       Development plans take
asset conservation activities    practices. No clear            account of archeological
are identified.                  responsibilities for managing  sites. Local Government and
                                 cultural assets. Management    community take lead on
                                 of cultural assets scattered   Qohaito plan. Restoration of
                                 and funding ad hoc.            2 theatres commences.
                                                                Guidelines for historic area of
                                                                Asmara in use. Eritrean
                                                                Conservation Fund structure
                                                                agreed.

In addition, the Bank team and Project Steering Committee worked to identify detailed Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs) with measurable benchmarks, aimed at tracking the progress of



                                                  4

each activity (see Annex 2). This served as a key tool through the rest of project implementation
and was extremely useful to the Bank team as well as the Borrower as it provided a common
framework. The KPIs are a projected output. See Annex 2 for actual achievements.

Component A: Site Planning, Conservation and Museum Development
A1: A pilot archaeological inventory of the Greater Asmara Area is completed
An evaluation of the inventory approach is completed to assess its potential for wider application
A2: Community based site conservation and management plan is prepared and is under
implementation in Qohaito, and is evaluated for wider application, and community based
restoration activities on Metera carried out
A3: Upgrade and improve facilities, collections, and exhibitions in National Museum of Eritrea
(NME) and Massawa Museum

Component B: Conserving the Built Environment
B4: Initiative to raise awareness (locally and internationally) on the built environment has been
successfully implemented
B5: Eritrea Conservation Fund (ECF) is established and is financing private sector and
community based conservation activities.
B6: Conservation plan for identified historic buildings in Massawa is completed
B7:     Conservation plans for identified historic buildings in Asmara, Dekemhare and 2
monasteries are completed
B8: Restoration works for Asmara Theatre completed
B9: Restoration works for Capitol Theatre completed
B10: Design and civil works for open spaces and parking in Asmara completed and spaces being
used by local community
B11: Training program in building conservation carried out for Asmara municipality technicians
and skilled labor
B12: Preparation of planning guidelines for Asmara and Massawa are completed, which focus on
improving regulatory framework, the development of special conservation areas, and
development of selected conservation plans.

Component C: Supporting Living Culture
C13: Program of research on stage performance and training in collection of oral literature and
traditions are carried out.
C14: Program of research on stage performance and training in collection of oral literature and
traditions are carried out
C15: Representative oral literature and tradition are collected; performance opportunities are
supported; collected material is documented, transcribed and disseminated; and materials
submitted for inclusion into educational curricula.

Component D: Documentation and Information Management
D16: Program of overseas training in records management is completed, and local training
program is developed and implemented.
D17:     Equipment/materials needed for digital conversion, audio-visual and photographing
procured
D18: Storage units for ecclesiastic manuscripts are procured and delivered to religious
institutions and individual owners of manuscripts in conjunction with training in liturgical hymns
and manuscript conservation, and equipment for manuscript archiving procured and deployed
D19: Support and equipment is provided to the Pavoni Centre to complete library inventory on
Horn of Africa and Technical Manual and Dictionary on Book Binding



                                                 5

See Annex 2 for the detailed benchmarks and assessment at end of project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group"
identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and
organizations expected to benefit from the project)
The main beneficiaries identified in the PAD are the main institutions responsible for the
safeguarding of Eritrea's cultural heritage. This includes the nine key institutions represented on
the Steering Committee: the Research and Documentation Centre (RDC), the National Museums
of Eritrea (University of Asmara), the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ), the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the
President, and the Municipalities of Asmara and Massawa.                   The Ministry of National
Development and Ministry of Lands, Water and Environment (not cited in PAD) would also be
target groups. Other stakeholders mentioned in the PAD are professional associations such as the
Eritrean Society for Historical Architecture, the Eritrean Association of Architects and Engineers,
and the Eritrean Association of Artists; the Pavoni Center (a private archive); the Debre Bizen
Monastery Committee; and representatives from religious organizations, including the Orthodox
Church, the Moslem Council, and the Catholic Patriarchal Office.

The private sector was intended to benefit through project support to building trades, publishing,
media and information technology providers, and tourism services.

Communities living adjacent to key cultural sites, such as Qohaito, Sembel and Nakfa as well as
the urban population of Asmara and Massawa were also considered to be target groups. School
children were expected to benefit from the project due to the introduction of new resources for the
school curriculum, new museum exhibits and awareness raising on archaeological sites and urban
architectural styles. The projected beneficiaries were not expected to significantly alter following
the changes in project activities at MTR. However it was acknowledged that the involvement of
the Tourism Ministry was low and that the impact on Debre Bizen Monastery and Massawa
would be less as a result of changes in project activity. It was also recognized that the project
would be restricted in its ability to involve the private sector and work with community groups
due to changes in Government policy towards these groups. The disappointing curtailment of the
Restore Asmara Campaign supported by the project demonstrated the limitations of working with
communities, even in urban areas.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project comprised the following four components:
a)     Site planning and conservation. This component aimed at developing pilot community-
based and "growth oriented" conservation activities at selected historic sites, in particular around
Qohaito and Asmara, which are suffering from severe degradation. The component introduced
community-based conservation approaches to assist in the management of cultural assets,
including those created during the independence struggle prior to 1991 (such as underground
theatres, clinics, libraries and other structures). It also planned to strengthen the National Museum
of Eritrea by upgrading and improving its facilities and establishing linkages between the
National Museum and educational institutions in Asmara, thereby contributing to educational
curriculum development.

b)   Conserving the built environment. This component focused on integrating poverty reduction
and growth objectives with the conservation of the unique architectural heritage of Asmara, and



                                                     6

on developing future interventions in Massawa and other sites. The component was expected to
strengthen the institutional and legal framework for protecting and conserving historically and
architecturally important buildings, neighborhoods, and streets. It was also intended to support
enterprise development and economic growth through various innovative arrangements
("custodial assignments," private-public partnerships); improve the delivery of community and
public services, by focusing on the conservation and use of community assets and public spaces
to serve the poorest groups; and through training and capacity building improve the institutional,
regulatory, and technical capacity of public institutions to manage urban conservation and
development. The project aimed to provide resources to develop the mechanisms for listing and
protecting historic buildings; for restoring modified buildings to their original form and shape;
afnd for assessing the nature of the built heritage in other parts of Eritrea such as Massawa, Debre
Bizen, Dekamhare, and Keren, by carrying out detailed surveys and assessments of the historic
built environment, making selected emergency investments in stabilizing historic structures or in
otherwise improving the stability and integrity of important buildings.

c)     Supporting living cultures. This component was designed to support the development of
language, literature, and history and strengthen Eritrea's rich oral traditions, in particular poetry
and storytelling. It planned to provide performance opportunities for oral poets and storytellers,
training in field methods for the collection of oral literature and history, and pilot field studies to
document and record threatened oral traditions. These activities were to be linked to educational
curriculum development and to improving literacy.

d)       Documentation and information management. This component aimed to support the
development of national and regional archives. The focus in the first instance was to provide
training and capacity building for the eventual establishment of a National Archive, including
equipment and information management technologies for a user-friendly system of information
retrieval. The component also planned to support the management of other public and private
archives, namely the collection at the Pavoni Center, and Asmara's municipal building records.

1.6 Revised Components
The MTR identified certain triggers to demonstrate Borrower commitment to the proposed
changes. The project was then extended for two years until 31 July, 2007. The structure of the
four components was conserved but several activities changed.

The activities that were cancelled are:
        a) Renovation of a historic building for a new National Museum. Due to the deadlock
             between the National Museum and CARP PMU, stemming from lack of agreement
             on an appropriate site. (Component A)
        b) Nakfa Site Management Plan. Practical difficulties related to the need for the
             involvement of the Ministry of Defense, technical issues related to the restoration of
             trenches, distant location of the site, and travel restrictions. (Component A)
        c) Emergency repairs to historic structures. Cancellation of small scale civil works at
             the insistence of CARP Coordinator and Ministry of National Development in favor
             of restoration of two Asmara historic buildings. (Component B).

New activities that were agreed are:
      a) Upgrading and improvement of collections and exhibits in the National and Massawa
           museums. This includes the development of new exhibits and displays. (Component A).




                                                   7

      b) Restoration of Asmara and Capitol Theatres in Asmara. CARP, in consultation with
           the GOE, proposed the restoration of two prominent Asmara theatres with increased
           costs to be met by reallocations from dropped activities in Component A, reduction in
           allocation towards the Eritrea Conservation Fund, and some reallocations from
           Components C and D. (Component B).

The DCA was revised formally and signed by the Borrower to reflect the changes in activities and
the new KPIs.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)
The project was originally placed under the Ministry of National Development as there was no
Ministry that had the official mandate for cultural heritage. The project was moved to the
Ministry of Finance in 2007, along with all other donor projects. This late change in Ministry
resulted in a sudden decision to cancel a proposed second project extension which was aimed at
completing the much delayed civil works of two theatres.

Over the course of the project, three main shifts are observed in Government orientation that
affected project activities and achievement of development objectives:

         (a) Activities in support of the private sector were eliminated or greatly reduced. This had
         an impact on the proposed Eritrean Conservation Fund, Component A and ultimately on
         poverty reduction and growth objectives.

         (b) The scope to work with community groups was greatly restricted. This was evident in
         the stop put on the Restore Asmara Campaign, and gave a strong message to the project
         regarding working directly with community groups.

         (c) The withdrawal of construction contractors' licenses imposed by the Government in
         the last few of years resulting in delays in activities involving civil works, many of which
         remained undone at project closure. The lack of reliable information on when this would
         be lifted left the project in limbo, thereby preventing the re-allocation of the civil works
         budget to alternative activities. This also had a negative impact on the project's job
         creation and growth objectives.

Aside from the above significant changes, in the period following the MTR the project team made
efforts to ensure that the project had the flexibility to respond to bottlenecks. For example, the
management oversight for the Qohaito archaeological site was shifted to the Zoba (local
government) with the National Museum limited to a technical role. This adjustment was made so
that funding would continue beyond the project and reduce the chances of procedural bottlenecks.

The changes in activities at MTR resulted in changed funding allocations. The categories of
funding were re-arranged to accommodate the Government's request for restoration of the two
theatres in Asmara, thereby significantly increasing the allocation for civil works and associated
consultancies.




                                                   8

                                               Amount of the
                                              Credit Allocated                  % of
                                              (Expressed in                  Expenditures
       Category                              SDR Equivalent)                to be Financed

                                 Original Credit       Reallocated
                                                          Credit

        1. Civil works               1,025,000          1,806,983               90%

        2. Goods                     475,000             472,237         100% of foreign
                                                                         expenditures and
                                                                         90% of local
                                                                         expenditures

        3. Consultants               950,000            1,293,446        100%
        services,
        workshops, training,
        study tours and
        Audit


        4. Grants                    630,000                  -          100% of amounts
                                                                         disbursed

        5. Operating Costs           475,000             259,635                90%

        6. Unallocated               445,000             167,699


                                   ___________         __________

              TOTAL                  4,000,000           4,000,000

                                  ==========           =========


Component allocations were also revised at MTR and then again at frequent intervals to reflect
the progress of activities and response to changes in priorities and bottlenecks. The winners of
increased funding were Components B and D, while Component A lost funding.
                                   At Appraisal (US $)               In 2006 (US $)
Component A                        1.40                              0.66
Component B                        2.3                               2.51
Component C                        0.5                               0.51
Component D                        0.5                               0.76



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)




                                                 9

Project preparation was detailed and drew on the knowledge of internationally recognized
Eritrean cultural experts as well as expertise from the International Centre for the Preservation
(ICCROM). Project preparation and design benefited from the preceding Institutional
Development Fund grant of 1999 which focused on the institutional framework for addressing the
management of cultural assets. This grant drew attention to the need to integrate economic
growth and development objectives with investments in cultural asset management and to focus
on local development priorities. Because the CARP project was one of the early cultural heritage
LILs and no evaluation of their design or outcomes had been undertaken, it was premature to
draw lessons from similar Bank projects.        However, a series of detailed technical studies
undertaken at project preparation show that the team drew adequately on international expertise
in each of the sub-areas of cultural management and used that to inform project design.

A weak point in the design was the identification of risks and their mitigation (see section 3.1).
Several important risks, especially, political risk, were underestimated. The project was also
overambitious in its scope and included too many small activities in each component (e.g., see list
of activities originally in Component B). It would have worked to the project's advantage to have
had fewer activities under each aspect of cultural management that was being piloted.

Project preparation was informed by considerable consultation, especially with national experts.
In 1999, Government created a multi-sectoral and high level Steering Committee on Cultural
Heritage under the authority of the Ministry of Finance to begin to coordinate responsibilities and
to develop a strategy for cultural asset management activities across institutions. The Steering
Committee, the locus of strategic thinking about the direction of Government's approach to
cultural asset conservation and management, prepared a series of policy notes that addressed
national concerns such as the conservation of historic architecture, archaeological sites and
museums, Eritrean historical documents, folklore, and oral history. These policy notes articulated
progress made to date and propose activities to address cultural asset management in each of
these areas.     Activities for each component were discussed in detail with the primary
implementing agency and there was enthusiastic buy-in from these agencies. Direct consultation
at the local level, in areas to be affected by project activities, does not appear to have been
undertaken but was assumed through interaction with main implementing agencies.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
The project had two distinct phases of implementation ­ pre and post Mid Term Review with
very different approaches and results, therefore meriting different ratings. The initial years of
the project focused on the built heritage, with some attention to records management. However,
there was almost no progress on other components and little or no attention to budgetary
discipline. While the project had laudable achievement in raising awareness of the country's
remarkable architectural legacy and mapping of Asmara's historic district was underway, by early
2004 about half of the project activities had not yet commenced, disbursement was under 20%,
and no supervision mission had been carried out for almost two years. In this critical stage of
project start up only two Bank missions (one for two days) were carried out by the Task Leader.
Moreover, the appointment of a Task Leader with no operational experience and outside the
Africa region resulted in serious deficiencies in project management. Project budgets were not
available and expenditure categories did not relate to activities on the ground.        Numerous
deviations from project design without adequate justification or record keeping took place.
Although some were worthy activities, such as the Pedals for Progress program, they tended to


                                                10

distract from core activities. It is therefore surprising that the project was consistently rated S in
all areas of implementation until June 2004, despite periods during which there was no Task
Leader and virtually no supervision. As discussed by the QAG team, Management input was also
insufficient, as these inadequacies were not picked up by the sector or country management.

When the project was transferred to AFTS2 in 2004, only one year of implementation remained
although no Mid-Term Review had been conducted. The new sector manager appointed a new
Task Team Leader. Three missions (including MTR) were carried out in 2004 to put the project
back on track. As noted in Section 1.3, while the project was not formally restructured (the PDO
was not changed), the MTR explored the bottlenecks that were preventing so many activities
from starting up, evaluated the extent to which these bottlenecks could be resolved, and made
decisions on dropping or amending activities. The April 2004 mission organized a very
successful workshop where all the implementing partners came together for the first time to
discuss activities within a common framework and objectives. Project restructuring was stretched
over two missions to ensure buy in to restructured activities and correspondence with budgets.
These budgetary matters took several months and a new finance officer to sort out. The project
was extended until July 31, 2007 only after the project had met established triggers.

The final two years of the project were characterized by intensive supervision and contact
between CARP and the Bank team. The team took a proactive approach to implementation
support with regular bi-annual missions, regular follow up every two weeks via video conference
or phone meetings to discuss progress on activities and address any bottlenecks, and a brisk Email
traffic. The Bank team brought on a technical consultant who was able to provide significant
support to the PCU and National Museum. The development of the KPI annex (see Annex 1 of
all Aide Memoires from 2004 onward) that was used consistently through the remainder of the
project to measure progress was greatly valued by the client and the Bank team as an aide to
comprehensive implementation support.

From 2005 onwards the project ratings swung back and forth between satisfactory, moderately
unsatisfactory, and unsatisfactory reflecting the low disbursements stemming from wavering
Government policy and poor decision making on the part of the second Project Coordinator,
despite the Task Team's proactive efforts to induce better performance.

The project had risk flags on several occasions. Eritrea has a country at risk flag as a result of the
border dispute with Ethiopia. Other flags included disbursement lags and a resettlement flag
which was soon resolved.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The initial monitoring indicators are sometimes abstract and not conducive to measurement. In
particular, the list includes such difficult to measure concepts as "good practices for cultural asset
conservation activities are identified," or "regional and local governments gain perspectives on
how cultural asset management can generate benefits." Other indicators are proposed that were
beyond the project's control, namely partners in the private sector take a more active role in
cultural asset conservation, and other local institutions are more fully involved in cultural asset
management and use.

Following the MTR, the task team worked consistently with the project implementors to
develop more precise and measurable indicators for the PDO as well as detailed KPIs for all
project activities. Every mission involved detailed discussion on the progress of each activity
along the agreed benchmarks and an estimation of the percent completion of each KPI. This
provided an easy to visualize way to gauge project progress towards objectives, especially for a


                                                  11

project with many small activities. This joint activity went a long way in creating a cooperative
atmosphere between the Bank team and the implementing bodies as true partners working on
common goals. The KPI table (see Annex 2) was very useful as a consistent framework for the
Aide-Memoires, ISRs and Borrower monitoring reports. The percentage completion, while very
helpful in tracking leaders and laggards, does not reflect the relative importance of the activities
for the project as a whole.

The new Bank team approached OPCS on two or three occasions to discuss the monitoring needs
of the project. Each time they were assured that the Aide-Memoires, borrower reports and the
KPI table were adequate monitoring from the Bank's side.

Borrower monitoring was inconsistent. The project unit did not hire a M & E specialist as was
originally planned. Quarterly reports were received from the Project Unit until the last year when
there were delays due to absence of a Project Coordinator. These reports indicated basic activity
progress but were not very reflective on PDO or outcomes. The Project Unit hired a consultant
up to 2004 who delivered bi-annual monitoring reports; the content was acceptable but basic. The
consultant was not renewed when the intermediate project coordinator took over, despite
consistent mention from the Bank team that project M & E was not satisfactory.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
It is inexplicable that the project was judged to be exempt from the Cultural Property OPN 11.03
as it clearly had the potential for significant impact on cultural properties, both archaeological and
historic. The PAD notes, "The project is being implemented in part by the National Museum of
Eritrea, which has primary responsibility for safeguarding heritage sites and cultural property."
This, however, does not change the potential for impact.

The QAG review stated that "While the project should have triggered OPN 11.03 on Cultural
Property, project implementation and supervision has in fact been fully compliant. Failure to
trigger the policy was a procedural error which did not result in any adverse impact. As noted
earlier the Panel also believes OP 4.01 and OP 4.12 should have been triggered; however these
are largely procedural mistakes which are unlikely to have resulted in adverse impacts on the
ground. The current Task Team did in fact recognize the applicability of OP 4.12, and addressed
it during supervision."

The Bank looked carefully at potential resettlement issues at the Alfa Romeo building where the
activity was dropped due to Government's refusal to resettle four families during the planned
civil works. The team raised a potential issue at Teatro Asmara, and after many queries and an
on-site inspection during the October 2006 mission, was satisfied that the activity would not
involve resettlement.

It is justifiable, therefore to conclude that while there were procedural issues in the initial stages
of the project, and Safeguards were not always stringently addressed in the early 2000s), the new
Task Team took adequate action to ensure that there was safeguard compliance.

The MTR raised serious concern on the state of financial management which had gone
unobserved in the initial period of implementation and had been marked as S in all ISRs prior to
2004.    The team took significant steps to prioritize and rectify the situation including (a)
recruiting a new and well qualified finance officer in the Project Coordination Unit, (b)
specifying rectified budgets as a trigger to project extension, (c) insisting that the Project
Coordinator send quarterly finance reports to the Steering Committee, (d) arranging Bank


                                                  12

supervision by a technical specialist, and (e) re-allocating budgets and amending schedule in the
DCA to reflect changes in project activities.

Audit reports have been consistently satisfactory and delivered on time since 2004.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
The project envisaged two mechanisms to ensure a healthy post-Project afterlife: the Eritrea
Conservation Fund (ECF); and the creation of a cadre of trained heritage managers.
Although a well researched and serious proposal for the ECF was prepared under the Project by
an Eritrean legal expert, the Government has yet to establish the Fund. It is unclear when or if the
ECF will become operational through a legal proclamation, in part due to the Government's
declining support to the private sector. Significant training given and experience retained by the
staff of key cultural institutions, including the Research and Documentation Center (RDC),
National Museum, Cultural Affairs Bureau, Oral History Project and Asmara Municipality, under
the project provide a sound basis for sustaining project impacts. Further, each of these key
institutions has benefited from valuable equipment (including training in its use and maintenance).
The creation of the Asmara Center for Architecture and the establishment of a system for
screening all building works in the Historic Perimeter of Asmara will ensure that project goals
continue to the met. The RDC has been transformed into a credible institution to serve as the
National Archive in Eritrea and developed a stable base to provide training and guidance across
the country. The National Museum was introduced to site management planning and deepened its
capacity to carry out archaeological field surveys as part of environmental assessment. The
capacity building goals of the project have been well met in all the sub-sectors.

The project also assisted the Government to have three monuments placed on the World
Monuments Fund's "100 Endangered Monuments" list which resulted in attracting other donor
funding for restoration of two of the monuments. Discussions about the UNESCO Tentative
World Heritage List for Eritrea began with proposals for nominations for Asmara and Qohaitu
although work remains to be done for submission.

A key outcome of the project has been the experience these cultural institutions have had to work
together. Project implementors were unanimous in their assessment that one of the most
important gains from CARP has been this "space that has been created for us to work together
and think of the cultural sector as a whole. This is what will be most missed once CARP is
closed."

In order to fully consolidate the project's impacts, the challenge remains with the central
government, municipalities, and the voluntary and private sectors. The Government has to find
a home for the culture sector. CARP served as an important point of reference and signposting
for the cultural sector, both internally and for international donors. There is a risk that this
identity will become submerged in that of the Ministry of National Development, particularly
without a designated budget. At the local level, CARP has greatly enhanced the capacity of
Municipality staff and developed planning regulations and a documentation resource base to
better manage the historic built environment. However, the voluntary and private sectors need to
work together with government to demonstrate that cultural heritage assets can be a source of
growth.




                                                13

At project closure, the individual institutions involved in the project became the stewards for their
activities but often lacked adequate support from central Government. These institutions and
their heads who served as CARP's Steering Committee have been closely involved in the drafting
of the Draft Culture Policy document for Eritrea which lays out the vision for cultural
management in Eritrea and has drawn on the CARP experience. This policy however, still
remains to be officially discussed in Parliament.

At present World Bank country strategy does not include any follow-on project. CARP, however,
has been instrumental in raising donor awareness and willingness to invest in Eritrea's cultural
assets. The project had successful partnerships with the Alliance Francaise, Italian Trust Fund,
Netherlands Trust Fund, NGO Pedals for Progress, and British High Commission. The Italian
Cooperation and the Norwegian Embassy also expressed interest in funding additional activities
linked to CARP. It is particularly encouraging that the EU has recently made inquiries about
carrying forward some of the work of CARP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
This project is in many respects a visionary project in its efforts to bring together the various
strands of heritage ­ archaeology and museums, the built environment, oral history and oral
traditions ­ under one umbrella and to demonstrate their relevance to the social and economic
reconstruction of a post-conflict society. Therefore its objectives and design are highly relevant,
although its implementation was uneven.

At Appraisal the project was broadly in line with the previous CAS objectives related to capacity
building, increasing sources of growth, and human resource development. Capacity building was
to be the focus of training activities associated with community-based approaches to site planning,
traditional building skills for conservation of the built environment, and the national archives.
Increasing sources of growth was linked to improvement in urban and historic sites for tourism
purposes and overall urban growth. Human resource development was to be achieved through
linkages with the National Museum and educational institutions and support for development of
arts, language and literature.

Overall the project design was moderately unsatisfactory. While preparation benefited from the
input of national and international experts, risks and their mitigation were not adequately
identified. The project was overambitious with too many activities, especially in Component B.

The project design overestimated the Steering Committee role and capacity in project
management. Initially nine institutions were represented on the SC, of which four are Ministries,
two are municipalities, and three are autonomous government agencies (Research and
Documentation Centre, University of Asmara [National Museum of Eritrea] and the People's
Front for Democracy and Justice [PFDJ]). There was an inherent and unrecognized conflict of
interest in this arrangement as five of the SC members were directly responsible for implementing
project components, including the Project Coordinator. Even more problematic was the fact that
the later also headed the SC.

The assumptions on risk factors were deficient. The project's main overall risk assessment was
negligible (N) with individual component ratings as follows: A) Site Planning and Conservation ­
N; B) Conserving the Built Environment ­ M; C) Supporting Living Culture ­ N; and D)
Documentation and Information Management ­ N. Other risk factors were clear mechanisms for


                                                  14

collaboration and cooperation between multiple stakeholders (N), counterpart funds (S), and
timely hiring of staff (M). Risk mitigation measure did not always correspond to the risk, for
example the risk that conserved sites will be attractive to tourists was to be mitigated by social
assessment and focus on community role in site management. A more realistic mitigation
measure would be investment in site infrastructure and interpretation and visitor facilities. In
retrospect, the risk assessment was overly optimistic and should have been Moderate (M)
rather than Negligible (N). Indeed, during implementation other risk factors seriously affected
implementation: change in Government support for the involvement of the private sector; a
downturn in tourism as a result of regional instability and border conflict; resulting depleting
human resource base with out-migration and army enrollment; and an inadequately staffed PCU.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
Overall the project was able to meet its objectives of testing out and developing the means for
more fully integrating the conservation and management of cultural assets into local and
national economic development. Furthermore, it promoted learning in many areas that are
central to development at an institutional and skills level.

The main achievements of the project are:
    · Urban development plans take into account impacts on archaeological and built heritage.

    · Strengthened capacity for management of the historic built environment.

    · Development of a robust and capable institution (RDC) to serve as the National archives.

    · Increase in skill base for historic building restoration.

    · Increased knowledge base and access for archaeological and architectural heritage, and
        written and oral traditions.

    · Dissemination of oral history and oral traditions through publications and performances
        targeting communities and school children.

    · Documentation of oral traditions of all nine ethnic groups with emphasis on fold songs,
        poems, stories etc.

    · Significantly raised awareness of the significance of Eritrea's cultural assets at both a
        national and international level.

    · Trained cadre of survey archaeologists, urban planners, archival and record management
        staff, and recorders of oral history.

    · Creation of an acknowledged institutional forum for the management of heritage and
        culture. Prior to the project cultural institutions were fragmented with little cohesion.

    · Procurement experience with reference to selective bidding on archaeological outputs and
        restoration civil works.




                                                  15

    · Building social capital around cultural restoration as embodied in the Restore Asmara
         Campaign.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
The PAD argued that because of the pilot nature of the project, only notional and qualitative
economic analyses were to be undertaken a priori. The project was expected to generate a range
of benefits associated with: a) experience gained with various institutional partnership
arrangements for cultural asset conservation; b) improved planning and site interpretation to
accommodate conservation needs and tourism interests in cultural sites; c) growth and poverty
reduction associated with the development of enterprises and the private sector to support built
heritage conservation; d) conservation of cultural assets which might otherwise have been lost,
for example, to theft or as a result of development; e) community involvement in cultural site
conservation and management; f) improved management of public records; and g) improved
institutional capacity to formulate and implement cultural asset management programs.

The PAD also asserted that cost-effectiveness was carefully considered during project design. As
pilot operations, interventions under all components are expected to be relatively small-scale and
to optimize the impacts of resource use by developing partnership and possible co-financing
arrangements with domestic and international organizations such as Mrara Art Association,
Mahber Fikri Sine-Tibeb, ICCROM, and UNESCO. With the inclusion of larger scale
conservation works at Teatro Asmara and Cinema Capital at the later stages of the project, this
was no longer a valid assumption. Site conservation activities are expected to use local building
materials and labor intensive methods.

Overall the project shows good value for money in view of the extensive training that was
achieved in many areas of heritage management, including archaeological field surveys, site
management planning, urban heritage planning, archive management, and oral history. The
majority of assumed benefits were realized, although the growth and poverty reduction benefits
stemming from private sector involvement were not forthcoming. The institutional legacy
envisaged through the re-use of the Alfa-Romeo building and Eritrean Conservation Fund has
fallen short. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that significant time and energy of the project
went into creating institutional buy-in, building partnerships between institutions (e.g. RDC and
Pavoni Center) and cooperation with different sub-sectors. While this is not reflected in project
disbursement, it has been one of the main project achievements: the building blocks of a practical
vision, based on sound experience, of how culture can be managed in Eritrea.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The project was highly relevant, achieved a good part of its PDO, and demonstrated considerable
value for money. However, it is noted that the penultimate and final ISRs rated the project as
Moderately Unsatisfactory. The task team had been rating the DO as S for several missions as
they felt that the objectives were being met, albeit not uniformly through all activities. The
Implementation Progress was hence rated MU or U. The team was subsequently advised by the
Region's OPCS that this was inconsistent, and recommended lowering the DO rating to MU. The
final ICR, was similarly treated as a reflection of the disappointing progress in the last 6 months,
thereby retaining the MU ratings. On reflection, the task team states that had they realized that


                                                 16

the last ICR should have been treated as an overall evaluation of the project, the DO rating would
definitely have been MS.

The ICR firmly believes that a MS rating is fully justified as the project demonstrates extensive
achievements and lessons learnt. It also demonstrated that investing in cultural assets is an
element of nation building, as for example the work carried out on record management and oral
history, and post-conflict reconstruction. It is difficult to assess, however, the contribution of
cultural assets to economic growth in the present circumstances of Eritrea. On the less positive
side, the project experienced many delays and did not disburse the full loan. More synergies
could have been developed among the project components, for example using oral history in
museum exhibitions or in urban conservation or utilizing recent archaeological findings in school
curricula. As the project was a LIL, the ICR takes the view that it is important to focus on the
strong learning aspects of the project, which are often not adequately reflected when viewed
through the lens of incomplete disbursements.

The QAG at supervision noted the following: "The project has clearly contributed to increased
recognition of the importance of cultural heritage in Eritrea. Among other achievements, it has
led to the production of a number of important publications and studies of Eritrean cultural
heritage, particularly related to the old districts of Asmara and Massawa. These publications and
studies have become popular among both tourists and scholars and have increased awareness of
the cultural heritage of the country. The potential for increased tourism and international interest
in historic sites and local culture provide important opportunities both for building social capital
and for contributing to economic growth. The project has also successfully provoked increased
cooperation among municipalities and other Government bodies, urban planners, the private
sector and cultural heritage professionals (e.g., professionals at the National Museum) directed
towards the preservation and protection of the cultural heritage of the country. This has included
new zoning and building height and frontage regulations designed to preserve the historic cores of
Asmara and Massawa."


The outcome of awareness raising on historical architecture and cultural tourism exceeded
expectation. The project attracted numerous write ups in international and national press; BBC
and other documentaries were made (information from project participants and Task Team).
More recently, a traveling exhibition on Asmara's architectural heritage is drawing audiences in
several cities in Europe and gaining interest of travel promotion groups.


The project has also had laudable success in creating a good base for records management in
Eritrea. The RDC has taken every opportunity to provide significant training to staff and is now
fully equipped and capable of serving as a national archive. The project takes credit for breaking
the deadlock between the Pavoni Center (private archives) and the RDC who now work together
through a Memorandum of Understanding.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty impacts are primarily anecdotal as social assessment was not carried out at the beginning
of the project. In regard to gender aspects, the project trained a good proportion of women and the
Qohaito Management Plan paid particular attention to the role of women through field work and
consultations. The oral history and oral traditions project used female informants as well as male.
The Pedals for Progress activities focused primarily on facilitating girls to go to school. The



                                                   17

architecture and urban environment and hygiene competitions got school children from all over
the country exposed to historical architecture. The community discussions, visits and school
visits to the archaeological sites of Asmara, Qohaito and Metera made archaeology a part of the
living heritage to communities living around the sites.

It can be argued that the project was strongly committed to social development, as one of its
prime target groups were children and the project adopted an explicitly inclusive policy towards
all ethnic groups and languages in the recording of oral traditions and history.

The Restore Asmara Campaign was a wonderful example of building social capital through
cultural restoration. The project brought together a large number of citizens and resources in
Asmara to restore the main avenue over one weekend. Unfortunately the campaign was stopped
at the last minute.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
The project started in a relatively new country with negligible capacity, immature institutions,
and no vision for the management of its cultural assets. The objective of the LIL was not to
establish institutions but to pilot institutional arrangements and learn from them, an objective that
has been well met by CARP.

- Drafting of culture policy: The project has served as the central arena for discussion and
formulation of a draft policy on culture management in Eritrea. The Steering Committee brought
together the key players in different aspects of culture services (museums, archives, oral
traditions and history, archaeology, building and urban conservation), who until now worked in
isolation under different institutional set-ups. The policy discusses options for institutional
management of culture in Eritrea, and draws heavily on the CARP experience.

- Institutional legacy beyond CARP: The team, supported by Management were resolute on
retaining the ECF to ensure institutional sustainability for cultural activities in Eritrea following
project closure. Steering Committee and GOE support was secured by expanding the scope of the
ECF beyond architectural conservation (as in PAD) to include other aspects of culture
(archaeology, oral traditions, archiving etc.), and extending its mandate to support both private
and public sector initiatives. The project has designed the fund but it remains to be legally
established.

- Institutional development to support Architecture: The project has established the Asmara
Center for Architecture which is affiliated to the Municipality. It serves as a resource center for
training and a repository for architectural information which is now accessible to researchers,
architects and professionals.      CARP has also established the Committee for the Historical
Perimeter of Asmara, which is chaired by the Municipality, and includes private sector and
government professionals to review and advice on construction within the Historic Perimeter
using the building guidelines developed through CARP.

- Institutional model for management of archaeological sites:             The project demonstrated
flexibility in piloting different arrangements for site management. The current model of local
government (management, budget, works), National Museum (technical role) and community
(services -guides, shops) has been accepted by MOND as a model for management of
archaeological sites in Eritrea.

-Linking culture with education:         The project has built strong links between culture and
education. This is seen in a range of activities: school tours and public lectures during metera
stelae restoration, competition for school children focussing on urban architecture and



                                                    18

environmental awareness, publication and distribution of school materials and research books on
architecture, oral history, and oral traditions.

-Donor interest for Eritrean culture: CARP has been extremely successful in demonstrating the
value of investing in cultural assets. The project generated a lot of interest from many donors and
private entrepreneurs and took on board several activities that these groups wanted to support
(e.g. Municipality and archaeology survey training (Italians), competition for school children
(British), exhibition on archaeology (French), restoration of stelae (French), training on building
skills (Italians) etc.). Donor investment in cultural assets is very likely to continue as is
demonstrated by the recent interest of the Norwegians to build on CARP investment to further
enhance the resources of the RDC.

-Link to international resources: The project has ensured that long-term links are established
with international funding and technical resource institutions. The selection of 3 structures on the
current World Monuments Fund Endangered list, the hosting of Africa meeting of UNESCO's
heritage sites selection conference in Asmara, links with the BBC, Merrel publishers etc. all go a
long way to ensure that funds will keep flowing into the management of cultural resources in
Eritrea.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The planning guidelines of the historic perimeter of Asmara and the archaeological survey of
Greater Asmara are currently being used to develop the city's strategic plan, under financing from
the African Development Bank. The project made a big effort to work with the Municipality and
build ownership with the intention of integrating project outputs into relevant development plans.

Asmara has become well known among architects and preservationists for its outstanding
modernist architecture, due to the Internationally renowned publication by Merrel Publishers on
"Asmara ­ Africa's Secret Modernist City. This was based on the material documented through
the Project (currently available for purchase in local shops and via Amazon.com), exhibitions in
Europe that used the material collected through the Project (at the Royal Institute of British
Architectures headquarters in London, Cairo and various cities in Germany in 2007 and now in
many cities in Italy in 2008) as well as magazine articles writing about the project and
architecture in Eritrea. This media attention on Eritrea's cultural heritage has created a positive
image of Eritrea and laid the foundation for niche tourism.

Three monuments in Eritrea were successful in entering the World Monuments Fund list of 100
Most Endangered Monuments and attracted funding for restoration. The intiative to propose the
monuments and the financing of the application were a result of the project.

The project also financed the Conference for Africa submissions to the tentative list of UNESCO
World Heritage Sites. It was agreed at the Conference that Eritrea should submit an application
but this is still to be done as the country lacks some the legal and management requirements.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
No surveys were undertaken although household interviews and focus groups were conducted as
part of the Qohaito Site Management Plan.           A very successful workshop of implementing
partners was held during the MTR to draw on common lessons and develop a common vision for
the project and is detailed in the April 2004 Aide Memoire. The Steering Group met during the
2006 mission to consider lessons learned and heads of individual components submitted their
observations to CARP in October 2007.



                                                   19

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
CARP aimed at piloting arrangements for management of culture in Eritrea, and served as an
umbrella institution for the different agencies working on culture. Prior to the project, each
agency working on an aspect of culture functioned on its own, with minimal communication or
exchange with the private sector, or even between public agencies (such as Museum, Archives
etc.). The project created synergies between institutions, brought in the private sector and
demonstrated the potential of community involvement. The institutional experience gained from
CARP has significantly informed the proposed institutional structure in the draft culture policy.
However, there is a risk that these synergies may not be further strengthened if this policy
remains unendorsed for a long time. There is also a similar risk that the ECF may take a while to
be established by legal proclamation.

CARP has achieved significant success in the area of capacity building both through training of
personnel and investment in necessary equipment. The project has consistently ensured that
technology was tailored to the available skills and adequate attention has been given to training in
equipment maintenance and access to spare parts.

The projected financial flow to the sector is somewhat uneven. While the project has recorded
significant success in increasing donor interest to financing cultural management in Eritrea, the
support from Government looks less promising. Following project closure, some donor funds are
being channeled directly to individual implementing agencies. However donors explicitly
commented that they were less willing to invest in the absence of an umbrella institution to
replace CARP.

The social development outcomes are dependant on the future economic and political stability in
Eritrea and the resolution of its border situation. The project has created much awareness within
and outside Eritrea, exposed school children to the different sub-sectors, and demonstrated how
culture can serve to create employment, build social capital and reduce conflict. However, these
building blocks can result in economic and social development only with stable national growth
and regeneration of the economy. The recent political developments indicate that the country is
on its way to addressing these issues.

With economic growth, the Government is highly likely to invest in cultural management as the
project has adequately demonstrated its potential for economic growth and national integration.
If this happens, coupled with the raised interest from the private sector, donors and community
groups, CARP's legacy will result in its intended objectives for a long time.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.
The design team cannot be faulted on the detailed and admirable technical background work done
which drew on relevant international expertise in the different sub-sectors of cultural management.
The design however, was overambitious. Too many small activities, especially in Component B,


                                                  20

were not in tune with the light management structure expected in a LIL. The project was also
heavily dependant on outputs linked to the National Museum who were one of the weakest
institutions in terms of limited technical skills and an inefficient decision making structure.
Finally, the institutional design of the implementing partners being the core of the Steering
Committee (SC) and the Project Coordinator doubling as its head, limited the scope of the SC to
resolve bottlenecks with implementation agencies and look beyond individual components.
The definition of outcomes indicators and the analysis of risks at entry were weak.        While the
political instability may not have been predictable, other risks linked to fledgling institutions and
a nascent economic base were underestimated. There was no QAG at entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
To judge the quality of supervision it is necessary to differentiate the two distinct phases of the
project: pre Mid Term Review (Moderately Unsatisfactory) and Post Mid Term Review
(Satisfactory).

The quality of supervision pre Mid Term Review was poor. From effectiveness in 2001 until
2004 when the project had only a year left for implementation (although no mid-term review had
been conducted), no supervision mission had been carried out for almost 2 years and a short term
consultant with no project supervision experience had been assigned as Task Manager. Although
the project did much to raise awareness of the country's remarkable architectural legacy, and the
mapping Asmara's historic district was underway, about half the activities had not yet
commenced, and disbursement was under 20%. No Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was
prepared, project budgets were not available, and expenditure categories did not relate to
activities on the ground. The office did not have a procurement staff. Three Safeguard policies
should have been triggered and were not, although there were negative impacts or consequences.
Despite this, the ISRs are rated S. Bank management failed to respond to these inadequacies in
supervision.

From 2004 the quality of supervision improved dramatically and was satisfactory. The
development of the KPI annex (see Annex 1 of all AMs) using percentages to indicate status has
been an excellent tool that is greatly valued by the client and the Bank team as an aide to
comprehensive supervision. The Bank team was proactive, with regular mission and intensive
communication through email and regular Video Conferences to monitor progress and address
bottlenecks. The QAG review rated the project as a moderately satisfactory, although they
specifically commented that the task team's "supervision and insights were of high quality" but
felt that management could have been more proactive to respond to the issues raised by the team.
In this regard it needs to be stated that country management response was extremely proactive
and supportive in the last year of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on the bank performance discussed above and considering that overall the highlighted
inadequacies in Quality at Entry were outweighed by a technically robust design and proactive
implementation support in the post MTR phase, overall bank performance is rated as moderately
Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.


                                                 21

The Government showed strong commitment to the project at the identification stage while
during the last two years of the project there were difficulties in reaching decisions in a timely
manner on some key matters, including the physical works at the Asmara theatres and the design
and establishment of ECF. The PCU, particularly under the last Project Coordinator, worked
very hard to deliver the project under considerable pressure of time. Amongst the issues effecting
Government performance are:

Effectiveness delay: The project took more than eleven months from Appraisal (11/2000) to
Effectiveness (10/2001).

Staff turnover: Changes and delays in appointing Project Coordinators significantly disrupted
project implementation as there was no system of handover. The project remained without a
Project Coordinator for several months in the last phase which caused unnecessary delays and
disbursement hold-ups.

Lengthy response time from Project Unit: A pattern of long gaps in response and reluctance to
make decisions resulted in many delays on activities that could have moved ahead. This was very
evident during at least the last two years of the project, despite numerous reminders from the
Bank team. This had a negative impact on the proposed civil works for theatres, the ECF etc.

Changing and unpredictable Government priorities: The MTR agreed to the restoration of two
theatres following strong demand from the Project Unit and Ministry. These activities progressed
slowly despite World Bank flexibility on procurement and ultimately remained undone at project
closure. This tied up funds which could have been used on other activities.

Revocation of contractor's licenses: The effective stoppage of licensed contractors in Asmara
resulted in a situation where physical works approved under the project, namely the repair of the
National Museum and the restoration of the two theatres was first delayed and finally cancelled.
In the case of the National Museum, asbestos removal was seen as a health risk to staff and
visitors but no exemption was granted by Government.

Decreasing support to private sector: The changing political environment in Eritrea resulted in
decreasing support to private sector and community groups. This meant that the project had to
change certain activities that were originally envisaged with strong civil society involvement.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: The PCU experienced three distinct phases with three Project Coordinators. Up to the
MTR the PCU had significant achievements in component B but other activities had not even
commenced. The coordinator was a great visionary, passionate about architecture and urban
planning.    However, the unit lacked management skills, and procurement and financial
management were unsatisfactory.         Relations with implementing partners on the Steering
Committee were not always smooth and the project recorded uneven progress.

Following the MTR, a new project coordinator was appointed. This phase started out in a
promising manner, and financial management improved significantly. However, there were
significant delays in decision making without adequate justification. Low morale set in within
PCU staff and there was reluctance to delegate or take decisions efficiently. The ECF, Qohaito
management plan, museum exhibits and theatre civil works suffered significant set-backs.

The final year of the project again saw delays as the Project Coordinator left and there was a long
delay before an Acting Coordinator was appointed. Although he was not from the relevant


                                                 22

technical field, he created a feeling of partnership within the Steering Committee and worked
hard to push through decisions efficiently. Unfortunately by this period, time was running short
and the Ministry of Finance decided not to extend the project.
It is worth noting that the Aide Memoires raised relevant issues related to the performance of the
PCU in a candid manner.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Based on the bank performance discussed above, overall borrower performance is rated as
moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
Begun in a new and post-conflict country with negligible capacity, immature institutions, and
no vision for the management of its cultural assets, the Cultural Asset Rehabilitation LIL had
as its objective to pilot institutional arrangements and learn from them, not to establish
institutions. Therefore most of the learning focuses on aspects of cultural asset management.
The project has left behind very relevant experience to inform the creation of a new institution for
culture management in Eritrea. The project offers a number of lessons that should be considered
for future operations to make project impacts more sustainable and replicable:


(a) Importance of a common institutional umbrella for management of the culture sector: The
project has served as the central arena for discussion and formulation of a draft policy on culture
management in Eritrea. The Steering Committee brought together the key players in different
aspects of culture services (museums, archives, oral history, archaeology, building and urban
conservation), who previously had worked in isolation under different institutional set-ups. The
project clearly demonstrated that culture cannot continue to be managed by different bodies under
different institutional set-ups. It proved the value and effectiveness of a common umbrella
housing the different bodies working on culture.

(b) Linking culture with education: The project has built strong links between culture and
education, and demonstrated the importance of culture to national identity and integration. This
is seen in a range of activities: school tours and public lectures during the Metera stelae
restoration, competition for school children focusing on urban architecture and environmental
awareness, publication and distribution of school materials, and research books on architecture,
oral history, and oral traditions.

(c) Role of private sector and community in cultural conservation: The project demonstrated the
important role that non-government players have in supporting culture. The discussions around
the Eritrean Conservation Fund (ECF), the method of procurement for restoration works, the role
of the community in archaeological site management in Qohaito, the creation of the Committee
for the Historical Perimeter of Asmara, the activities targeted at school children all contributed to
convince public sector bodies that the private sector and civil society are a partner in their
endeavor rather than competitors to be held at arms length. In some cases, such as the Pavoni ­
RDC partnership, it convinced private sector to acknowledge the importance of public bodies in
safeguarding culture.

(d) Donor interest for Eritrean culture: CARP has been very successful in demonstrating the
value of investing in cultural assets. The project generated important interest from many donors
and private entrepreneurs and took on board several activities that these groups wanted to support
(e.g., competition for school children [British], exhibition on archaeology [French], restoration of



                                                 23

stelae [French], training on building skills [Italians] etc.). Donor investment in cultural assets is
likely to continue if an appropriate and transparent institutional home is established.

(e) Link to international resources: The project has ensured that long-term links are established
with international funding and technical resource institutions. The selection of three structures on
the current World Monuments Fund Endangered list, the hosting of a UNESCO conference on
World Heritage Sites in Asmara, contact with the Africa desk at the World Heritage Centre in
regard to the tentative list nomination of Qohaito, links with the BBC and Merrel publishers etc.
are positive steps to ensure external support for the management of cultural resources in Eritrea.

(f) Using culture as a unifying force in post conflict societies: CARP had a tremendous response
and success in organizing a community initiative to restore the main street in Asmara using
donations (paint, cement) from private companies and sponsors. This was a great attempt at
using culture to build community social capital in a conflict environment. Similarly, the school
competitions, public discussions at archaeological sites, and dissemination of oral history and
traditions to people have contributed in promoting national identity and tolerance. As the QAG
report noted, "Cultural heritage should be recognized for its potential as a unifying force in a
post-conflict situation. Failure to recognize this constitutes a serious missed opportunity."


(g) Need for simplicity in designing LILs: The initial project design was overambitious that
resulted in several years of slow implementation with many activities not even commenced over
almost 4 years. As a LIL, project design has to be simple. A few activities are adequate to test an
objective. The focus should be on the learning through the activity and not on the number of
activities achieved. Moreover, activities should be tailored to capacity and management skills,
something that was significantly over-estimated in a new country like Eritrea.

(h) Need for flexibility in design and supervision: The project demonstrated the need for the
project team and Bank management to be flexible and sensitive to bottlenecks and problems,
especially when working in a new sector and in an unstable post-conflict situation. The purpose
of the LIL is to learn, and the project implemented this concept by being open to changing
arrangements and adapting activities within the project, in order to meet the objectives in the most
feasible manner. This is demonstrated in the piloting of different arrangements for the Qohaito
site management.      The current model of local government (management, budget, works),
National Museum (technical role) and community (services -guides, shops) has now been
accepted as a model for management of archaeological sites in Eritrea, and is very different from
the earlier arrangement where the whole site was under the sole authority of the technical
National Museum.

(i) Need for sustained engagement by Bank management. The project also points attention to
support mechanisms within the Bank. "The Panel [QAG of Supervision] also feels that the
project has been treated as marginal within the Bank's portfolio in Eritrea, and that an
important opportunity to promote cultural heritage for national-building and unification of a
post-conflict situation has not been sufficiently taken advantage of. The failure to plan for a
follow-up to this LIL heightens the sense that work in this area is not a priority for the Bank or
Government."

The End of Project Evaluation submitted by the Borrower lists detailed lessons learned for each
of the main components (see Annex 4).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                                 24

MOND voiced concern with World Bank procurement procedures that were deemed inflexible to
the particular situation of restoration works. However, the World Bank tried to be extremely
flexible, but when a compromise was agreed, the project moved to MOF who cancelled the
activity under discussion.

The PCU was concerned over the gap in TTLship and the inadequate field visits prior to the MTR.
Procurement support was also limited, but this improved dramatically with the recruitment of a
procurement analyst in the WB Asmara office.

Implementing agencies expressed sincere appreciation of the effort made by the post MTR team
to be flexible and supportive of their needs, and for providing close technical guidance. They
also found the team to be effective in addressing conflict issues between the PCU and themselves.

(b) Cofinanciers
Many donor agencies were extremely impressed with CARP and approached the Project to
provide funding to culture through the CARP channel (see above for list of activities funded by
donors). CARP could not accommodate all the demands though a host of activities were
absorbed into the project. The donor agencies have voiced their concern that they will lack a
channel to fund cultural activities following the closure of CARP (as the ECF is not established
and cultural management remains disbursed in Eritrea). However, the individual agencies have
been significantly strengthened and donors can channel funds through the relevant sub-sector as
is demonstrated by the proposed intention of the Norwegians to invest in the RDC and restoration
of the historic church in Senafe by the World Monuments Fund.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
There was much interest and demand from the private sector for funding a range of activities such
as restoration of historic buildings (e.g. gas station, wooden balcony in Massawa etc.), supporting
artists and performers and financing individual researchers. CARP was extremely flexible in its
approach and stretched to accommodate many demands. However, support to these activities
such as publication of text on Archaeology, tourist guide for Keren, support to Artist group for
postcards, workshop on traditional music instruments were done in a somewhat ad-hoc manner.
There was open demand for a more formal process that was originally envisaged through ECF but
did not see implementation due to lack of support from Government.




                                                   25

   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                   Project Costs: Financial Allocation and Disbursement Status

Table1.1: Project Financing by Component and Source (in USD million equivalents) before the 2006
reallocation.

                                                          Actual as of           Percentage of
                                Appraisal Estimate        July31/2007          Actual/Appraisal
         Component              IDA GOE Total IDA GOE               Total   IDA      GOE       Total
Site Planning, Conservation
and Museum Development.          1.40   0.10    1.50   0.26   0.01   0.27   18.6%    10.0%     18.0%
Conserving the Built
Environment                      2.30   0.20    2.50   0.75   0.01   0.76   32.6%      5.0%    30.4%
Support Living Culture           0.50   0.02    0.52   0.27   0.02   0.29   54.6%    90.0%     56.0%
Documentation & Information
Management                       0.50   0.05    0.55   0.35   0.01   0.36   70.0%    14.0%     64.9%
Coordination & Management        0.30   0.04    0.34   0.37   0.20   0.57 123.3% 487.5% 166.2%
Total Baseline Cost              5.00   0.41    5.41 2.00     0.24   2.24   40.1%    58.5%    41.5%
Source: Source: CARP, Finance Section, October 2007
Note: Figures are rounded




   Table1.2: Project Financing by Component and Source (in USD million equivalents) after the
   2006 reallocation.

                                                          Actual as of           Percentage of
                                Appraisal Estimate        July31/2007           Actual/Appraisal
         Component              IDA GOE Total IDA GOE               Total   IDA       GOE      Total
Site Planning, Conservation
and Museum Devt.                 0.66   0.01    0.67   0.26   0.01    0.27  39.4% 100.0%       40.3%
Conserving the Built
Environment                      2.51   0.20    2.71   0.75 0.001     0.75  29.7%      0.5%    27.5%
Support Living Culture           0.51   0.04    0.55   0.27   0.02    0.29  53.5%     45.0%    52.9%
Documentation & Information
Management                       0.76   0.08    0.84   0.35   0.01    0.36  46.1%      8.8%    42.5%
Coordination & Management        0.56   0.07    0.63   0.37   0.20    0.57  66.1% 278.6%       89.7%
Total Baseline Cost              5.00   0.40    5.40 2.00     0.24    2.24  40.0%     60.0%    41.4%
Source: Source: CARP, Finance Section, October 2007
Note: Figures are rounded




                                                26

 Table 2.1: Project Financing by Category (in USD million equivalent) before the 2006 reallocation

                                                       Actual as of
                              Appraisal Estimate       July31/2007               % of Appraisal
 Expenditure Category         IDA GOE Total IDA           GOE Total          IDA      GOE       Total
 Civil Works                  1.30   0.14    1.44  0.01    0.01   0.02       0.8%      7.1%      1.5%
 Goods & Equipment            0.60   0.21    0.81  0.60    0.02   0.62 100.0%          9.5%     76.5%
 Consulting Service ,
 Training, Audit,
 Workshops, etc.              1.20   0.00    1.20  1.20    0.00   1.20 100.0%          0.0% 100.0%
 Grants                       0.80   0.00    0.80  0.00    0.00   0.00       0.0%      0.0%      0.0%
 Operating Cost               0.60   0.06    0.66  0.19    0.21    0.40     31.7% 351.7%        60.8%
 Unallocated                  0.50   0.00    0.50  0.00    0.00   0.00        0.0%     0.0%      0.0%
 Total                        5.00   0.41    5.41  2.00    0.24   2.24      40.0%    58.8%     41.4%
 Source: Source: CARP, Finance Section, October 2007
 Note: Figures are rounded




 Table 2.2: Project Financing by Category (in USD million equivalent) after the 2006 reallocation

                                 Reallocated           Actual as of
                                  Estimate             July31/2007               % of Appraisal
 Expenditure Category         IDA GOE Total IDA           GOE Total          IDA      GOE        Total
 Civil Works                  2.37   0.14    2.51  0.01    0.01   0.02        0.4%     0.7%       0.4%
 Goods & Equipment            0.60   0.20    0.80  0.60    0.02   0.62 100.0%         15.0%      78.8%
 Consulting Service ,
 Training, Audit,
 Workshops, etc.              1.02   0.00    1.02  1.20    0.00   1.20 117.6%          0.0% 117.6%
 ECF Consultants              0.20   0.00    0.20  0.00    0.00   0.00      10.0%      0.0%      10.0%
 Operating Cost               0.60   0.06    0.66  0.19    0.21   0.40      28.3% 354.5%         58.0%
 Unallocated                  0.21   0.00    0.21  0.00    0.00   0.00        0.0%     0.0%       0.0%
 Total                        5.00   0.40    5.40  2.00    0.24   2.24      40.0%     60.9%      41.5%
 Source: Source: CARP, Finance Section, October 2007
 Note: Figures are rounded


Table 3: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual as of July 31/2007 in USD Million
equivalent)
Category                          Procurement Arrangement
                                  SS        DC       QCBS      ICB        NCB       Shop       Total
Civil Works                          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.01        0.00     0.00      0.01
Goods and Equipment                  0.00      0.09     0.00      0.13        0.01     0.40      0.63
Consulting Service , Training,
Audits, Workshops, etc               0.76      0.03     0.07      0.30        0.00     0.05        1.2



                                             27

Operating Cost                                               0.00              0.00         0.00              0.00         0.00             0.40          0.40
                       Total                                 0.76              0.12         0.07              0.44         0.01             0.84          2.23
                 Percent of total                            0.34              0.05         0.03              0.20         0.00             0.38          1.00
Source: CARP, Finance Section, October 2007

Chart 1: Project Financing by Component and Source


 6.00




 5.00


                                                                                                                                   Site Planing ,
                                                                                                                                   Conservation and
 4.00                                                                                                                              Museium Devt.
                                                                                                                                   Conserving the Built
                                                                                                                                   Environment

 3.00                                                                                                                              Support Living Culture


                                                                                                                                   Documentation &
                                                                                                                                   Information
 2.00                                                                                                                              Management
                                                                                                                                   Coordination &
                                                                                                                                   Management


 1.00                                                                                                                              Total Baseline Cost




 0.00
                IDA        GOE          Total      IDA          GOE           Total     IDA         GOE            Total

                     Appraisal Estimate               Actual as of July31/2007           Percentage of Actual/Appraisal

Source: (CARP), Table 1&2, Annex 1.



Chart II: Project Financing by Category


                                                    Project Financing by Category                                         Civil Works
                 6.00

                                                                                                                          Goods & Equipment

                 5.00
                                                                                                                          Consulting Service ,
                                                                                                                          Training

                 4.00                                                                                                     ,Audit,Workshop
                                                                                                                          Grants
       n
        llioi
             m 3.00                                                                                                       Operating Cost
             DSU
                                                                                                                          Unallocated
                 2.00



                 1.00



                 0.00
                            IDA            GOE         Total               IDA          GOE            Total

                                    Appraisal Estimate                        Actual as of July31/2007




                                                                           28

Annex 2: Outputs and KPIs and Ratings by Component

RESTRUCTURED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND PROGRESS AS OF 31 JULY, 2007



                                                              Component A . Site Planning, Conservation and Museum Development
KPI A1                       Benchmarks & Current Rating                         Activities Covered                Progress                              Action
A pilot archaeological       25% equipment procured and training on its use      (i) equipment; (ii) training by   KPI achieved.                         KPI achieved
inventory of the greater     completed; 50% phase 1 of survey completed,
Asmara area is completed,    phase 2 sites identified and survey started; 75%    Manzo, (iii) field survey, (iv)
and an evaluation of the     survey completed and TOR for evaluation
inventory approach is        finalized; 100% methodology evaluated and final     interim and final report
completed to assess its      report submitted and published
potential for wider                                                              preparation and publication
application                  Previous Rating: 100%

                             Current Rating: 100%
KPI A2                       Benchmarks & Current Rating                         Activities Covered                Progress                              Action
Community based site         25% implementation committee set-up,                (i) IC setup and operation for    (i) Final management plan submitted   KPI partly achieved
conservation and             preliminary work plan submitted and TOR for         Q, (ii) consultant for site       by Consultant but falling short of
management plan is           consultant for site plan finalized, restoration of  management plan for Q, (iii)      several areas.
prepared and is under        Metera completed using community labor, 1           site management of Q by           (ii) Inventory of 300 of 750 known
implementation in Qohaito,   school tours of Q, 1 school tour of M completed;    zoba (iv) visitor center          sites completed.
and is evaluated for wider   50% 2nd school tour of M completed, consultant      design and civil works in Q,      (iii) No progress on construction of
application, and community   for site plan recruited, visitor center designed    (v) visitor center goods and      visitor center or development of
based restoration activities and located, time-line and content of community     equipment including               exhibit material.
on Metera carried out        awareness workshops finalized, draft site plan;     preparation of visitor            (iv) No progress on training of
                             75% 3 public workshops held, civil works for        materials, (vi) other site        guides or signage.
                             visitor center commenced, site plan final, goods    specific civil works in Q, (vii)  (v) 3 public workshops held to
                             for visitor center procured; 100% visitor center    community awareness               discuss plan with community, govt
                             ready with displays, community workshops            activities in Q, (viii) training  and private stakeholders.
                             completed, signage posted, guides trained, civil    of guides in Q and M, (ix)
                             works completed, site management plan               community based restoration
                             finalized.                                          activities in Metera (with
                             Previous Rating: 70%                                French donor), (x) 1 school
                                                                                 tour of Q, (xi) 2 school tours
                             Current Rating: 73%                                 of M




                                                                                       1

KPI A3                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                       Activities Covered             Progress                               Action
Upgrade and improve           25% photo exhibit on archaeology prepared,        (i) Photo exhibit on            (i) No progress on exhibits.          KPI partly achieved
facilities, collections and   goods and equipment for NM and MM procured,       archaeology with Alliance       (ii) Furniture for National museum
exhibitions in National       draft bid documents for NM civil works ready;     Francaise, (ii) civil works to  procured.
museum (NM) and               50% photo exhibit on archaeology on display,      upgrade NM building, (iii)      (iii) No progress on civil works
Massawa museum (MM)           civil works on NM commenced, proposals for 2      goods and equipment for NM      despite CARP PCU's extensive
                              new exhibits completed; 75% civil works for NM    and MM exhibit                  efforts to elicit interest from the
                              completed, one exhibit ready; 100% 2 exhibits in  improvements.                   limited licensed contractors.
                              NM and MM upgraded and on display




                              Previous Rating: 55%

                              Current Rating: 60%


                                                                       Component B . Conserving the Built Environment
KPI B4                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                       Activities Covered              Progress                              Action
Initiatives to raise          25% consultants recruited for identified          (i) publication and             (i)School booklets on built           KPI achieved
awareness [locally and        books/maps on Asmara (A) and Massawa (M),         distribution of maps and        environment submitted to Ministry of
internationally] on the built Renovate Asmara Campaign ready, workshop on       guides to built environment     Education for distribution to schools
environment have been         culture and sustainability; 50% guide book, map   on A and M, (ii) Tigrinya       in all regions.
successfully implemented      and international publication on A published, 2   book on culture, (iii)          (ii) Guide books on M & A, Tigrinya
                              urban environment activities linked to pedals for international book on           book on culture and international
                              progress commenced, UNESCO conference             Asmara secret city, (iv)        book on A available to public in 2
                              held, Tigrinya book on culture published; 75%     school booklet in English,      local bookstores.
                              guide book and map on M published, WMF            Tigrinya and Arabic on built
                              proposals submitted, World Heritage Site          environment for Min of
                              proposal for A submitted; 100% school booklet     Education, (v) UNESCO
                              on built environment completed in English,        conference on nomination of
                              Tigrinya and Arabic and delivered to schools,     World Heritage site,
                              CARP books available in local outlets in major    submission of proposal for
                              cities in Eritrea.                                Asmara and workshop on
                                                                                WHS requirements, (vi)
                                                                                WMF proposals, (vii)
                              Previous Rating: 85%                              Renovate Asmara




                                                                                      2

                                                                                Campaign, (viii) activities
                              Current Rating: 100%                              linked to Pedals for Progress
                                                                                with Netherlands Embassy,
                                                                                (ix) urban awareness
                                                                                activities for schools with
                                                                                British & Netherlands
                                                                                Embassy
                                                                                (x) workshop on culture and
                                                                                sustainability
KPI B5                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                       Activities Covered             Progress
Eritrean Conservation Fund    25% TOR for ECF studies drafted and consultant    (i) Studies/Consultancies for  (i) ECF design finalised and        KPI partly achieved.
(ECF) is established and is   recruited, 50% Pilot design for ECF structure     structure of ECF, (ii) setting approved by Steering Committee.
financing private sector and  submitted and pilot activities begin; 75% Funds   up ECF, (iii) piloting sub-    (ii) No progress on ECF piloting.
community based               for pilots 50% disbursed and legal activities to  projects.                      (iii) No progress on legal
conservation activities.      establish ECF underway; 100% pilot sub-projects                                  establishment of ECF.
                              completed and ECF legally established



                              Previous Rating: 45%

                              Current Rating: 46%




KPI B6                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                       Activities Covered             Progress                            Action
Conservation plans for        25% consultants for design of covered walkway     (i) design of covered          KPI achieved                        KPI achieved
identified historic buildings and Banco d'Italia recruited; 50% design for      walkway, (ii) design of Banco
in Massawa are completed      covered walkway complete and Banco d'Italia       d'Italia, (iii) design for
                              underway; 75% design for Banco d'Italia           Governor Palace
                              complete and consultant for design of Governor
                              Palace recruited; 100% design for Governor
                              Palace complete



                              Current Rating: 100%




                                                                                      3

KPI B7                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                                                      Progress                            Action
                                                                                Activities Covered
Conservation plans for        25% consultants for design of 4 of 9 identified   (i) design of Alfa Romeo, (ii) KPI achieved                         KPI achieved
identified historic buildings buildings recruited; 50% 4 of 9 designs complete, design of Asmara Theatre,
in Asmara, Dekemhare and      and consultants recruited for design of 2 more    (iii) design of Eritrean War   The mission would like to note that
2 monasteries are             buildings; 75% 5 of 9 designs complete, and       Disabled Building, (iv) design the design for the Asmara and
completed                     consultants for design of remaining 2 buildings   of Abuna Bitsu Amlak           Capitol Theatres and War Disabled
                              recruited; 100% 9 of 9 designs complete           Monastery, (v) design of       Building ensures that they are
                                                                                Dekemhare Martyrs              disable accessible.
                              Previous Rating: 100%                             Cemetery, (vi) design of
                                                                                Central Post Office, (vii)
                              Current Rating: 100%                              design of Capitol Theatre
                                                                                (viii) design of library and
                                                                                museum for Debre Bizen
                                                                                monastery, (ix) design for
                                                                                Sudan Embassy
KPI B8                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                       Activities Covered             Progress                            Action
Restoration works for         25% bid documents ready and approved; 50%         (i) preparation of bid         No progress due to MOF decision to   KPI partly achieved
Asmara Theatre completed      civil works contract awarded and work             documents, (ii) civil works,   close project.
                              commenced, consulting supervisor recruited,       (iii) consultant supervisor
                              75% civil works 50% complete; 100% civil works
                              100% complete

                              Previous Rating: 30%

                              Current Rating: 30%
KPI B9                                                                                                         Progress                            Action
                              Benchmarks & Current Rating                       Activities Covered
Restoration works for         25% bid documents ready and approved; 50%         (i) preparation of bid         No progress due to MOF decision to   KPI partly achieved
Capitol Theatre completed     civil works contract awarded and work             documents, (ii) civil works,   close project.
                              commenced, consulting supervisor recruited,       (iii) consultant supervisor
                              75% civil works 50% complete; 100% civil works
                              100% complete



                              Previous Rating: 30%




                                                                                       4

                             Current Rating: 30%

KPI B10                      Benchmarks & Current Rating                         Activities Covered                 Progress                              Action
Design and civil works for 2 25% consultant recruited and draft design           (i) Design of open spaces,         (i) Firm contracted to proceed with   KPI achieved
open spaces in Asmara        proposed, 2 sites selected; 50% bid documents       (ii) civil works, (iii) furniture  civil works for 2 open spaces.
completed and spaces         approved and bid awarded; 75% civil works 50%       for open spaces                    (ii) Civil works for 2 open spaces
being used by local          complete; 100% civil works for 2 spaces                                                completed and spaces being used
community                    complete and spaces being used by local                                                by local community.
                             community


                             Previous Rating: 40%

                             Current Rating: 100%
KPI B11                                                                                                             Progress                              Action
                             Benchmarks & Current Rating                         Activities Covered
Training program in building 25% plan for trainings developed, identification of (i) management for ACA             KPI achieved                          KPI achieved
conservation carried out for schools & partner institutions, trainers for urban  ready,, (ii) consultant
Asmara municipality          planning course recruited; 50% trainers for         trainers, (iii) goods and
technicians and skilled      skilled labor training recruited, both trainings    equipment needed for
labor                        underway, Asmara Center for Architecture set-       trainings, (iv) preparation
                             up; 75% both trainings at least 50% complete;       and publication of manual on
                             100% both trainings completed with at least 50%     restoration techniques, (v)
                             of trainees using skills in work place, manual on   establishment of ACA.
                             conservation techniques completed and
                             distributed, Asmara Center for Architecture
                             providing services to municipality



                             Previous Rating: 100%
                             Current Rating: 100%
KPI B12                                                                                                             Progress                              Action
                             Benchmarks & Current Rating                         Activities Covered
Planning initiatives for     25% TOR developed and consultants recruited         (i) preparation of guidelines      (i) Exhibition on Asmara architecture KPI achieved




                                                                                        5

Asmara and Massawa are         to prepare guidelines on historic perimeter (HP)    for historic perimeter in        in Berlin, London and other places
completed, which focus on      in Asmara, consultants for preparation of green     Asmara, (ii) green book on       took place successfully. This was
improving regulatory           book on Asmara recruited, 50% Phase 1 of HP         Asmara, (iii) blue book on       inspired by CARP's products. Done
framework, the                 consultancy complete, green book on Asmara          Massawa, (iii) guidance          in cooperation with German and
development of special         HP complete, consultants recruited for blue book    provided by CARP to              Eritrean architects, G & E
conservation areas, and        on Massawa, 75% phase 2 of HP consultancy           municipalities of Asmara and     embassies, Municipalities & CARP.
development of selected        underway, green book data being used by             Massawa on restoration and       Exhibition expected to return to A
conservation plans.            Asmara municipality, blue book on Massawa in        new building construction,       following world tour.
                               preparation, 100% complete guidelines on HP         (iv) procedures in place to
                               delivered to Asmara municipality, blue and green    ensure use of HP guidelines      KPI achieved
                               book data being used by researchers                 and blue and green book
                                                                                   data
                               Previous Rating:100%

                               Current Rating: 100%



                                                                               Component C . Supporting Living Culture:
KPI C13                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                         Activities Covered               Progress                            Action
Program of research on         25% equipment for collection specified, training    (i) Equipment for collection     (i) Remaining equipment procured.   KPI achieved
stage performance and          program developed; TOR for consultancy on           of oral traditions, (ii) 1 month
training in collection of oral history of performance developed; 50%               training of collectors of oral
literature and traditions are  equipment for collection procured, trainees         tradition and refresher
carried out.                   identified and trainers recruited for collection    course, (iii) research for book
                               training, consultancy on history of performance     on history of performance
                               underway; 75% 1 month training on collection
                               completed; research on history of performance
                               complete; 100% refresher training on collection
                               completed, research on history of performance
                               compiled and ready for editing, all equipment
                               procured.



                               Previous Rating: 98%
                               Current Rating: 100%




                                                                                         6

KPI C14                                                                           Activities Covered                Progress                                Action
                               Benchmarks & Current Rating
Representative oral            25% collection of oral traditions commenced,       (i) collection of oral traditions (i) Cataloguing of 9 ethnic groups      KPI achieved
literature and traditions are  transcribers recruited, two public performances    in 9 ethnic groups, (ii)          completed.
collected, performance         completed and recorded on audio; 50%               transcription of collected        (ii) Book on Saho, Nara, Tigre oral
opportunities are              collection of oral traditions 50% complete,        material of 3 groups, (iii)       tradition published
supported, collected           transcription of 3 ethnic groups underway; 75%     cataloguing and                   (iii) Book on Tigre oral tradition
material is documented,        collection of oral tradition of 9 ethnic groups    classification of collected       published
transcribed and                completed, collected material of 9 ethnic groups   material of 3 groups, (iv)        (iv) Publication of collected material
disseminated, and              is 25% transcribed & catalogued, book on history   publication of selected           in "Quolahta" children's journal
materials submitted for        of stage performance published & distributed,      material in 2 journals, (v)       (50,000 copies)
inclusion into educational     Tigre TV drama shown on TV; 100%                   editing and publishing of         (v) Selection of material for inclusion
curricula                      transcription and cataloguing of material of 9     book on history of stage          in school curricula.
                               ethnic groups completed, selected material         performance, (vi) support to      (vi) Performance of Tigre drama and
                               submitted for inclusion in educational curricula,  cultural performances in          cultural show in 20 Tigre speaking
                               TV drama distributed, selected material            schools and in public             villages.
                               published in CAB journal/books, performances of
                               oral tradition in Tigre speaking area.



                               Previous Rating: 80%
                               Current Rating:100%

KPI C15                        Benchmarks & Current Rating                        Activities Covered                Progress                                Action
Training in collection of oral 25% collectors recruited, partner organizations    (i) equipment for collection      (i) Research on Federal period part     KPI achieved
history is carried out and     identified, equipment identified; 50% research for and publication of oral           II complete, edited and ready for
oral histories are collected,  books on federal period underway, initial training history, (ii) collection of oral  publication.
published and                  for partner organizations completed, transcribers  history through interviews,       (ii) Book on readings on oral history
disseminated m                 recruited, draft of book on federal period part 1  (iii) transcription and           published.
                               ready, 80% equipment procured; 75% book on         cataloguing of collected          (iii) Book on Federal period part 1
                               federal period part 1 published in Tigrinya,       material, (iv) publication of     translated into Arabic.
                               research on federal period part 2 underway,        books on federal history -
                               book on readings in oral history 50% completed,    part 1, (v) preparation of
                               training to partner organizations completed;       book on federal history ­
                               100% all equipment procured, book on readings      part 2, (vi) publication of
                               in oral history published and book on federal      book on readings in on oral




                                                                                          7

                            period part 2 ready for publication, book on             history, (vii) training to
                            federal period part 1 also translated to Arabic.         partner organizations


                            Previous Rating: 85%
                            Current Rating: 100%

                                                                    Component D . Documentation and Information Management
KPI D16                     Benchmarks & Current Rating                              Activities Covered              Progress                            Action
Program of overseas         25% RDC director enrolled in UK MSc program,             (i) masters course in UK for    (i) RDC director completes Masters  KPI achieved
training in records         undergraduate course for Univ. of Asmara                 RDC director, (ii) 2 batches    course and graduates
management is completed,    designed; 50% 1st batch of students graduate             of 1 year course in Asmara      (ii) Software for records
and local training program  from Univ. of Asmara course, consultant                  university, (iii) training in   management procured
is developed and            recruited for preparation of national framework          English language, (iv)          (iii) All additional equipment
implemented.                on record management needs, 1st English                  provision of training on        procured
                            language training completed, training on                 electronic records by RDC,
                            documentation and preservation of f                      (v) consultancy for national
                            photographic and cartographic materials                  framework on record
                            completed; 75% 2nd batch of students graduate            management needs, (vi)
                            from Univ. of Asmara course, 2nd English course          training on documentation
                            for RDC completed, national framework                    and preservation of
                            completed and delivered to RDC; 100% RDC                 photographic and
                            delivers training on electronic records                  cartographic materials
                            management , RDC director successfully
                            completes MSc course.

                           Previous Rating: 95%

                           Current Rating: 100%
KPI D17                     Benchmarks & Current Rating                              Activities Covered              Progress                            Action
Equipment/materials         25% equipment for audio-visual conversion and            (i) purchase of mini discs      (i) Remaining equipment for         KPI achieved
needed for digital          conservation specified; 50% equipment for audio-         and betacam cassettes for       photographic conservation delivered
conversion, and             visual conversion and conservation procured,
                            photographic equipment specified; 75% most               digital conversion and          and set up
conservation of audio-      photographic equipment procured and consultant           conservation, (ii) purchase of
visual and photographic     recruited for training in use of photographic equipment; equipment for conservation
material is procured and    100% training in use of photographic equipment           of photographs, (iii) training




                                                                                           8

deployed                      complete and all equipment procured and in use     in use and maintenance of
                                                                                 audio visual and
                              Previous Rating: 95%                               photographic equipment


                              Current Rating: 5%
KPI D18                       Benchmarks & Current Rating                        Activities Covered              Progress                             Action
Storage units for             25% Orthodox and Islamic manuscripts               (i) inventory of orthodox and   KPI achieved                          KPI achieved
ecclesiastic manuscripts      commenced; 50% workshop on conservation to         Islamic manuscripts, (ii)
are procured and delivered    manuscript owners, inventory of religious          workshop on manuscript
to religious institutions and manuscripts & objects completed, storage           conservation, (iii)
individual owners of          containers procured; 75% storage containers        procurement and delivery of
manuscripts in conjunction    delivered to monasteries with training, micro-film manuscript storage
with training in liturgical   equipment procured; 100% training for priests in   containers, (iv) procurement
hymns and manuscript          liturgical hymns completed, inventory for Islamic  of micro-film for manuscript
conservation, and             manuscripts completed, storage containers          archiving, (v) binding of old
equipment for manuscript      delivered to individual owners with training,      manuscripts (vi) training for
archiving procured and        binding of old manuscripts completed               priests in liturgical hymns (in
deployed                                                                         collaboration with UNESCO)
                              Previous Rating: 100%

                              Current Rating: 100%
KPI D19                       Benchmarks & Current Rating                        Activities Covered              Progress                             Action
Support and equipment is      25% Equipment needed for cataloguing and           (i) equipment for cataloguing   KPI achieved                          KPI achieved
provided to the Pavoni        binding training specified, dictionary on book     and binding training, (ii)
center to complete library    binding published; 50% all equipment procured,     printing of dictionary on book  Cataloguing of Horn of Africa
inventory on Horn of Africa   consultants for cataloguing and binding manual     binding, (iii) development of   material continuously updated and
and manual and dictionary     recruited, vol. 1 of manual complete; 75%          3 part manual on binding        has now been expanded
on book binding               inventory of Horn of Africa 75% complete, vol. 2   techniques, (iv) consultancy    to include periodicals and journals.
                              of manual complete; 100% inventory on Horn of      on inventory of Horn of
                              Africa complete and in use, vol. 3 of manual       Africa, (v) consultancy on
                              complete and all 3 vols. in use                    binding

                              Previous Rating: 100%

                              Current Rating: 100%




                                                                                       9

Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Peter Dewees             Sr. Environment Specialist          AFTI    TTL

Marylou Bradley          Operations Officer                  AFTH3   Costing and
                                                                     operations
Supervision/ICR
Arlene Flemming          Consultant, Cultural Heritage       ENV     TTL
Roxanne Hakim            Sr. Anthropologist                  AFTCS TTL
Francesco Sarno          Consultant, Procurement                     Procurement
Sandra Jo Bulls          Program Assistant                  AFTEN ACS
Efrem Fitwi              Procurement Analyst                 AFTPC Procurement
Rogati Anael Kayani      Consultant                          AFTPC Procurement
Brighton Musungwa        Senior Finance Officer             LOAFC Finance
Ernestine Ngobo-Njoke    Language Program Assistant         AFTEN ACS

June Taboroff            Consultant, Cultural Heritage       AFTCS   Technical support
                                                                     and ICR
Moses Sabuni Wasike      Sr Financial Management Specialist OPCFM Finance

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                  31.73
  FY00                                       10                         74.44
  FY01                                        6                         22.85
  FY02                                        1                          4.23
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                        Total:               17                        133.25
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                                                   0.00
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                        5                         43.04
  FY03                                        4                         49.86



                                           1

FY04               12     87.53
FY05               13     66.79
FY06               16     84.07
FY07               16     59.82
FY08                3     10.13
        Total:     69    401.24




                  2

Annex 4. Lessons Learned: Synthesis from Borrower's ICR

Component A
  · The need for professionals in various fields
  · The benefits of coordination of various institutions in the protection of cultural
     assets
  · Existing potentials of the country in the area of archaeological assets and
     antiquities have been discovered;
  · The empowerment to identify, know and write Eritrean ancient history free from
     Axumite hegemony and excessive Sabean influence
  · Recognition of traditional skills (such as stone and wood carvings, leather works,
     iron and gold smithery, etc.) as well as building confidence in such traditional
     skilled trades;
  · Identification of local materials and tools, which can easily be merged and/or be
     complemented with modern materials and tools in the maintenance and
     renovation efforts

Component B
  · It has been realized that there is local capacity and strong learning aspect in
     restoration work
  · Municipality of Asmara has realized the need of continuing training (through its
     own funds) initiated by CARP
 ·   Municipality staff developed criteria for the application and identification of
     inconsistent structures and errors in design and architecture.

Component C
  · Oral literature, as part and parcel of the informal education and training, is the
     best media for the expression of daily lives of the people. It is a `life long' process
     that equips young people with skills and competencies to co-exist in their society.
     It will continue to exist as new ones crop up and old ones are recorded and pass to
     the new generation.
  · Oral literature is under the custodian of private people, often with little personal
     means, capacity and motivation to preserve and pass it (even orally) to the next
     generation. CARP is indeed a learning and innovative project not only because it
     created awareness and knowledge on its utility among decision makers, but
     equally on how it should be collected, protected and stored before the present
     custodians pass away.
  · There is the cognition on the usefulness of indigenous sources for historical
     research
  · Improved interpretation of Eritrean history by Eritreans
  · Thorough understanding, interpretation and analysis of colonial history of Eritrea
  · Enhanced relevance of school curriculum by availing rich source of historical
     material.




                                           3

· The importance of flexibility in the utilization of WB funds-transfer of funds to
  local training instead of training abroad when local capacity exists
· The importance of creativity and vision in better implementation of project
· The usefulness of coordination and cooperation in management of cultural assets-
  artefacts were properly listed and recorded by RDC and final report submitted to
  NME
· Cooperation and coordination between RDC and Pavoni centre is positive and
  advantageous to all sides




                                        4

Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents

1)   The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, for a Cultural Assets Rehabilitation
     Project, May 2001.
2)   The World Bank: Eritrea ­ Aide Memoir, Culture Heritage Project (LIL)
     Pre-appraisal Mission, May 9 to 21, 2000.
3)   The World Bank: Eritrea ­ Aide Memoir, Culture Assets Rehabilitation Project (LIL),
     Appraisal Mission, November 8 To 14, 2000
4)   The World Bank: Eritrea ­ Aide Memoir, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed
     Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), May 29 to June, 2001.
5)   The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project,
     Supervision and Implementation Support Mission, November 11-19, 2001.
6)   The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
     Supervision and Implementation Support Mission, May 6-24, 2002.
7)   The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project,
     Supervision Mission, November 6-24, 2002.
8)   The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project,
     Supervision Mission, January 27 to February 3, 2004.
9)   The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project,
     Supervision Mission, November 30th ­ December 8th, 2004
10)  The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project,
     Supervision Mission, March 15 ­ 23, 2005
11)  The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project,
     Implementation Support Mission, November 15 ­ 21, 2005
12)  The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Project
     Implementation Support Mission, April 18 ­ 29, 2006.
13)  The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Asset Rehabilitation Project
     Technical and Supervision mission, October 16-21, 2006
14)  The World Bank, Eritrea: Aide Memoir, Cultural Asset Rehabilitation Project,
     Implementation Support Mission, February 25 ­ March 7, 2007.
15)  The World Bank, Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7), November 2006
16)  T. Consultant, CARP: Monitoring and Evaluation Report, March 2003.
17)  T. Consultant, CARP: Monitoring and Evaluation Report, May 2003.
18)  T. Consultant, CARP: Monitoring and Evaluation Report, July 2003.
19)  T. Consultant, CARP: Monitoring and Evaluation Report, January 2004
20)  Comprehensive Report on the Implementation of CARP of Component C2: Oral
     Literature, MOE: CAB, August17, 2007.
21)  Report of Activities implemented with CARP, Component C1: Oral History, August 23,
     2007 (Tigrigna).
22)  Memhir Asres Tessema, `Teamot', 2006 (A Book Written in Tigrigna, sponsored by
     CARP, and describing the History of Stage Performance in Eritrea).
23)  Yosief Libsekal, National Museum of Eritrea, CARP Implementation Report, August 27,
     2007
24)  Azeb Tewolde, Final Report of CARP, Component D: Documentation and Information
     Management, August 2007
25)  Tesfa Mariam Tekie, End of Project Evaluation (CARP), September 24, 2007




                                           5

