Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 4057-SLU 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(
Telecommunications and Information and Communications Technology 
Development Pro
ject) 
 
between 
 
SAINT LUCIA
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated                                                    , 2005
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4057-SLU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated __________________________, 2005, between SAINT 
LUCIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the loan agreement (Loan Agreement) 
of the same date herewith entered into between the Borrower and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Borrower also has requested the Bank to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is making a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of two hundred seventy two thousand one hundred and sixty 
one Dollars ($272,161) (the Loan); 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of 
the Loan are made; 
(D) 
the Project will also be financed by other loans from the Bank and credits 
from the Association, in an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,171,844 (the Other Loans 
and Credits) to Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, and Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines (the Other Participating Countries), as provided in the loan 
agreements and development credit agreements of the same date herewith entered into 
between each of the Other Participating Countries and the Bank or the Association, as the 
case may be (the Other Loan and Credit Agreements); 
 
(E) 
the Project will be carried out by Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications 
Authority (ECTEL) with the Borrower’s and the Other Participating Countries’ assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower and the Other Participating Countries will 
make the proceeds of the Credit, the Loan, and the Other Loans and Credits available to 
ECTEL, as set forth in this Agreement, the Loan Agreement, and the Other Loan and 
Credit Agreements; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ECTEL 
(the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004) (the General Conditions), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, 
the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits. To that end, if 
the Association shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to 
in respect of such item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to 
be consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Loan Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and 
the Preamble to the Project Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 200,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15, and October 15, in each year.  
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15, and October 15, commencing October 15, 2015 and ending April 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2025 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of ECTEL, and any person whom he or she 
shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement, 
Sections 3.01, 3.02, and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement and Schedules 1 and 2, thereto are 
incorporated in this Agreement, with the following modifications in said Sections and 
Schedules unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) 
the term “Bank” shall be read as “Association”; 
(b) 
the term “Loan” and “Loan Account” shall be read as “Credit” and 
“Credit Account”; and 
(c) 
the term “this Agreement” shall be read as “the Credit Agreement”.
 
Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ECTEL 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise 
by the Association: 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Bank with respect to 
any Project-related matter under the Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be taken or 
given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and 
(b) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank 
with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement or the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the Association. 
ARTICLE IV
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events set out in Section 
5.01 of the Loan A
greement shall have occurred, provided however, that the term “Bank” 
appearing in such Section shall be read as “Association”. 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events set out in Section 
5.02 of the Loan Agreement shall have occurred, provided however, that the term “Bank” 
appearing in such Section shall be read as “Association”. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness 
of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ________________________________ is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Office of the Prime Minister 
New Government Buildings 
Waterfront, Castries 
Saint Lucia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
758-453-7352 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the ________________________________________________________, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
