Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4775-GRD 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Telecommunications and Information and Communications Technology 
Development Project) 
 
between 
 
GRENADA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 14, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4775-GRD 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2005, between GRENADA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Borrower also has requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financial assistance towards the 
financing of the Project, and by the Development Credit Agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association of even date herewith (the Credit Agreement), the 
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in a principal amount equivalent to two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 200,000) (the Credit); 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in the Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) are made; 
 (D) 
the Project also will be financed by other loans from the Bank and credits 
from the Association, in an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,171,844 (the Other Loans 
and Credits) to Commonwealth of Dominica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines (the Other Participating Countries),
 
as provided in the 
loan agreements and credit agreements of the same date herewith entered into between 
each of the Other Participating Countries and the Bank or the Association, as the case 
may be (the Other Loan and Credit Agreements); 
(E) 
the Project will be carried out by Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications 
Authority (ECTEL) with the Borrower’s and the Other Participating Countries’ assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower and the Other Participating Countries will 
make the proceeds of the Loan, the Credit, and the Other Loans and Credits available to 
ECTEL, as set forth in this Agreement, the Credit Agreement, and the Other Loan and 
Credit Agreements; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  3
-
2
–
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ECTEL 
(the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01
.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans.  To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
Page  4
-
3
–
(a) 
“Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications Authority” or “ECTEL” means 
the entity established as an international organization, with autonomous juridical 
personality, in accordance with the Treaty Establishing the Eastern Caribbean 
Communications Authority of May 4, 2000, the terms of which have been adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to its Telecommunications Act No. 31 of 2000, as such act may be 
amended from time to time; 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;   
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(e) 
“Financial Policy and Procedures Manual” means the financial policy 
and procedures manual adopted by ECTEL in December 2004, including all annexes 
thereto, which sets forth provisions for the financial management of the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank;  
(f) 
“ICT” means information and communications technology as referred to 
in Schedule 2 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“National Telecommunications Regulatory Commission” or “NTRC” 
means the national telecommunications regulatory commissions of each of the 
Participating Countries, and collectively referred to as NTRCs; 
(h) 
“Participating Countries” means the Borrower and the Other 
Participating Countries as defined in the Preamble of this Agreement, and “Participating 
Country” means any of such countries; 
(i) 
“Procurement Plan” means ECTEL’s procurement plan, dated April 
2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.02 to the Project Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation; 
(j) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
ECTEL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
–
(k)  
“Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual adopted by 
ECTEL in April 2005, including all annexes thereto, which sets forth the policies and 
procedures for carrying out the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank;  
(l) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
 
(n) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ECTEL pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(o) 
“Treaty” means the treaty referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
(p) 
“Universal Service Fund” or “USF” means the fund referred to under 
Schedule 2, Part B.1 of this Agreement; and 
(q) 
“Universal Service Guidelines” or “USG” means the guidelines referred 
to under Schedule 2, Part B.1 of this Agreement, adopted by ECTEL and acceptable to 
the Bank, including all annexes thereto, which set forth the polices and procedures for the 
carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project, and such guidelines may be amended from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ECTEL. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred seventy two thousand one hundred and sixty one Dollars ($272,161). 
 
Page  6
-
5
–
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.   
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
Page  7
-
6
–
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09.  The Managing Director of ECTEL, and any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause ECTEL to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ECTEL therein set forth, 
Page  8
-
7
–
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ECTEL to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, jointly with the other Participating Countries, enter 
into a subsidiary loan agreement with ECTEL, under terms and conditions which have 
been approved by the Bank, for the purposes of governing their respective roles in the 
carrying out of the Project and making the proceeds of the Loan available to ECTEL. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.  In case of any conflict among the terms of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and those of this Agreement and/or the Other Loan and Credit Agreements, 
the terms of this Agreement and/or the Other Loan and Credit Agreements shall prevail. 
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ECTEL pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  9
-
8
–
(a) 
ECTEL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ECTEL will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall have withdrawn from the Treaty, or shall have 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived its Telecommunications Act No. 31 
of 2000, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ECTEL to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.   
 
(d)  
Any of the Other Loan and Credit Agreements shall have failed to 
become effective by October 12, 2005, or such later date as the Bank may agree; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(e) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower, or any of the Other 
Participating Countries, to withdraw the proceeds of  any 
loan or credit made to the Borrower, or any of the Other 
Participating Countries, as the case may be, for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the loan or credit agreements providing 
therefor, as the case may be, or 
(B) 
any such loan or credit shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower, or the Other Participating Countries, establish to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower, or the Other Participating Countries, from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Borrower, or the Other Participating Countries,  under this 
Agreement. 
Page  10
-
9
–
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraphs 
(a), (c), (d), and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of 60 days after notice thereof has been given by the Bank to the Borrower and 
ECTEL.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that: 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and ECTEL;   
(b) 
ECTEL has appointed ECTEL staff, including a project manager, for the 
carrying out of the activities under the Project, in accordance with Section 3.01 of the 
Project Agreement; and 
(c) 
ECTEL has customized its financial management software to meet the 
financial reporting requirements of the Project and of the Treaty.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that: 
(a) 
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ECTEL, 
and is legally binding upon ECTEL in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and ECTEL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ECTEL in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date October 12, 2005,
 
is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
 
Page  11
-
10 
–
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.  
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Financial Complex, the Carenage 
Saint
 George’s 
Grenada
 
Facsimile: 
 
473-440-4115 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11 
–
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
GRENADA 
 
By/s/ Denis Antoine 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12 
–
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent 
Dollars
to be Financed 
(1) 
Goods under Parts A, B.1,   
17,982 
24,348 
100%  
 
B.2, C and D of the Project 
 
(2) Goods 
under 
 
51,377 
69,565 
100% 
 
Part B.3 of the Project 
 
  
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
96,684 
130,910 
85%  
 
(4) Training 
12,623 
17,091 
100% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
0 
1,361 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
21,334 
28,866 
 
 
______ ______ 
 TOTAL 
200,000
272,161
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” means reasonable 
expenditures directly related to the provision of training under Part A.5 of the Project.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of:  
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
Page  14
-
13 
–
(b) 
payments made for expenditures made under Category (2) unless ECTEL 
has adopted USG for the carrying out of the USF under Part B.3 of the Project. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.   
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  15
-
14 
–
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if ECTEL shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  16
-
15 
–
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16 
–
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $270,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  18
-
17 
–
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18 
–
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  20
-
19 
–
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Participating Countries in improving 
public access to and the quality and use of telecommunications and information and 
communications technology (ICT) services, in support of socio-economic development 
among the Participating Countries. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A.
Legal and Regulatory Reforms
Provision of technical assistance to ECTEL and the Participating Countries’ 
National Telecommunications Regulatory Commissions (NTRCs) to:  
1. 
strengthen national and regional regulatory frameworks to promote 
competition in the telecommunications and ICT services sector;  
2
establish a regional forum to build consensus and facilitate resolution of 
commercial and public policy issues related telecommunications and ICT services;  
3.  
establish guidelines and a standard model for alternative dispute 
resolution facilities;  
4.  
develop costing methodology and policies and procedures to determine 
interconnection and related consumer rates, and explore methods to attract additional 
service providers to enter the telecommunications market; and  
5.  
conduct a comprehensive review of the telecommunications legislation, 
focusing on interconnection and spectrum management and implementation of 
numbering and dispute resolution procedures (this includes the provision of a 
comprehensive regional program of related training to the staff of ECTEL and NTRC and 
government staff of the Participating Countries). 
 
Page  21
-
20 
–
Part B
.
Universal Access
1. 
Establishment of universal service guidelines (USG) for the management 
and implementation of a universal service fund (USF), including: (a) reviewing existing 
telecommunications legislation and regulations relating to universal access; and (b) 
conducting regional consultations to seek consensus in Participating Countries on the 
implementation of the USF. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to ECTEL and NTRCs to adapt the 
USG within each Participating Country for the management and implementation of the 
USF. 
3. 
Implementation of a USF designed to improve public access to 
telecommunications infrastructure and broadband connectivity, through the financing of 
specific projects which promote private investment in broadband connectivity and 
advanced ICT access infrastructure for under-served communities and public institutions. 
 
Part C
.
Information and Communication Technologies
1. 
Expansion of broadband applications used by Participating Countries and 
the private sector through: (a) identification of policies required for facilitating the 
development of broadband applications and infrastructure, and drafting of appropriate 
regulations to implement such policies; (b) recommendation of a common information 
systems architecture, information technology standards for the Participating Countries, 
and a viable mechanism by which complex information systems may be supported and 
maintained; and (c) design of pilot projects that encourage regional use of broadband 
technologies. 
2.  
Implementation of up to five ICT pilot projects that demonstrate the 
viability and business case for ICT and the application of ICT using broadband 
connectivity, with focus on regional initiatives. 
3. 
Establishment of an alternative telecommunications system to transfer 
data from the radio spectrum monitoring system to ECTEL and the five NTRCs through 
the use of alternative technology.  
 
Part D
.
Project Management
Strengthening the capacity of ECTEL staff in priority technical areas and project 
management, including the provision of technical assistance in procurement and financial 
management, and the conducting of auditing activities for the Project. 
Page  22
-
21 
–
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  23
-
22 
–
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
On each October 15 and April 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2008 
  
 
 
through October 15, 2017 
  
10,000 
 
beginning April 15, 2018 
  
 
 
through October 15, 2019 
  
15,000 
 
On April 15, 2020 
  
22,161 
 
