Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1223 
Project Name 
Heads of Households Transition 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P055483 
Borrower(s) 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Labor, Employoment and Social Security 
Avnd. L.N. Alem 640 Piso 15 
Argentina 
Tel: 54-114-310-6384  
cberra@trabajo.gov.ar 
Argentine  Republic 
Argentina 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X ] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 31, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 31, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The social impact of the recent crisis in Argentina was severe.  Recognizing the seriousness of 
the situation, the Government expanded safety net programs, including the Heads of Household 
workfare program, which transfers the equivalent of US$50/mo to unemployed heads of 
household with minors 18 years of age or under (or pregnant women or disabled of any age).  
The participants are required to work or participate in training/education activities a minimum of 
4
hours a day in exchange for the transfer, but organizing activities for a large number of 
beneficiaries proved difficult, nor was the requirement strictly enforced in all localities.  
Currently, household survey data (the best information available) shows that only 60% of 
participants fulfill the work or training/education activities.  In many areas, most Jefes 
participants who work, do so in municipal services, such as health, education, maintenance, etc.  
Initial registration procedures were chaotic in many areas, resulting in incomplete compliance 
with the legal eligibility requirements.  Also, up to a third of beneficiaries did not register 
through the municipality as was legally required, but instead were proposed by groups of 
unemployed or local politicians.  In spite of these difficulties, the impact evaluation shows the 
Program partially compensated many losers from the crisis and reduced extreme poverty, 
although many participants were not strictly-speaking heads of household (70% are women), and 
some were not active in the labor market.  Targeting performance was satisfactory.  After taking 
into account the estimated foregone income, about 40% of the participants came from the bottom 
20% of the household income distribution, while about 80% came from the bottom 40%.   
 
Page  2
Since mid-2003, management of the Program has improved.  The Ministry of Labor has 
established clear cut procedures to enable ineligible beneficiaries to be dropped from the rolls 
and in fully using the information available from cross-checks with other data bases (taxes, obras 
socials, etc.).  Nevertheless, given the poor initial registration procedures and the speed at which 
the Program expanded in 2002 and in the pre-election period in early 2003, problems continue to 
be discovered, including receipt of the Program by public sector employees.  Although so far 
these discoveries do not account in total for even 1% of the total number of beneficiaries, it 
contributes to negative public opinion about the Program.  As of November 2004, beneficiaries 
total 1.6 million, covering 16% of households in Argentina (up to 40% in 4 provinces).  The 
number of beneficiaries has fallen by 20% from its peak in May 2003, explained in roughly 
equal proportions by entries into the formal labor market and enforcement of the other eligibility 
requirements.   
 
Reform Agenda: Reorienting the Heads of Household Program.  
Emergency programs 
helped limit the impact of the crisis on the poor, but now that the economy is improving, the 
Government has decided on an exit strategy.    The economy grew by around 7% during 2003-4.    
Employment is growing and the rate of unemployment has dropped, although it still remains 
high by historical standards.  Beginning January 2005, the Ministries of Social Development and 
Labor would jointly manage the transition of the Heads of Household Program for 6 months (one 
extension for a similar period is possible).  The exit strategy is two-pronged.
1
First,
 some 
participants (female-headed households or families with 3 or more children) would transfer to an 
existing conditional transfer program managed by the Ministry of Social Development, with the 
aim to prevent the inter-generational transmission of poverty.  Data from the household survey 
indicates that about 45 percent of beneficiaries of the Heads of Household Program have 3 or 
more children.  The Government also considers that these individuals have less possibility to 
enter the labor market.  These individuals would receive slightly more than the transfer they 
receive currently from Jefes given the benefit structure of the conditional transfer program 
(US$34 as a base benefit, with US$8 per child, up to a maximum of US$66).  IDB would finance 
the expansion of the conditional transfer program.   
Second
,
the Ministry of Labor would focus 
on helping the remai
ning beneficiaries find employment.  Central to the Ministry’s efforts is the 
development of a national network of employment services.  These offices would provide 
personalized services to the participants in the Heads of Household Program, and to other 
unemployed individuals on demand, including labor orientation, job search support, and labor 
intermediation services.  These offices would also link participants to expanded opportunities to 
complete their basic education, and selectively, undertake other training.  At the same time, the 
current workfare activities would be restructured with the aim of using them more to help 
improve the employment prospects for beneficiaries.  Through the proposed project, the Bank 
would support the reorientation of the Heads of Household Program and the activities focused on 
employment.  In addition, the project would continue to support improvements in monitoring and 
controls in order to improve targeting and reduce the number of participants who do not fulfill 
the eligibility criteria, measured against agreed results. 
 
Fit with CAS.  
The project supports the CAS’ overall objection of helping reduce the extent and 
severity of poverty in Argentina.  The most recent CAS highlights the need to redirect the 
1
The Government presented the strategy to a joint mission of the IDB/World Bank in April 2004 and has formalized 
it recently in Presidential Decree 1506.  The main provisions of the Decree are summarized in Annex 1.  
Page  3
emergency programs, such as the Heads of Household Program, to serve the medium and longer-
term development agenda, including employment.            
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The project would support the workfare part of the Heads of Household Program, a social safety 
net launched by the Government of Argentina in April 2002 to alleviate the impact of risking 
unemployment due to the sharp worsening of the economic crisis.  Although economic 
conditions have improved recently, unemployment rates are still quite high, particularly among 
the poor.  In addition, the project would support the delivery of personalized employment 
services to the beneficiaries of the Program, with the goal of improving employment outcomes 
for them.  As a result of the project, beneficiaries would receive support in obtaining 
employment (including labor orientation, supported job search, intermediation services, 
education, and training).   
 
3. Preliminary description 
A
specific investment loan is proposed.  The project builds on the Heads of Household Project 
and is intended to facilitate the transition out of the emergency programs.  The Bank team is 
coordinating closely with the IDB team preparing the loan to support the expansion of the 
conditional transfer program.  This would need to continue during the preparation and 
implementation of the proposed project, particularly given the shared responsibilities of the 
Ministries of Social Development and Labor during the 6-12 month transition period next year.   
 
Component 1:  Transfers to Heads of Household Participants ($200 million).  
A
substantial 
share of the loan (80%) would finance transfers to workfare participants (as is the case in the 
current Heads of Household Project).  The project would support further improvements in 
governance of the Program, including a continuation of supervision of municipal registration 
information, completion of the process of replacing bank payment of the monthly benefit by use 
of automatic debit cards, and stricter enforcement of work or training/education requirements, 
and over time job search and counseling.    
 
Component 2:  Provision of Employment Services and Provision ($8.5 million).  
Through 
this component the Ministry of Labor would carry out a program to strengthen the delivery of 
employment services at the municipal level through the provision of technical assistance and 
equipment.  Selectively, the Ministry would also establish some offices itself which would serve 
the double purpose of providing employment services and serving as models of best practice and 
sources of technical assistance.    
 
Component 3:  Provision of Basic Education and Training Services ($4 million).  
The  
project would finance the materials and other costs of providing basic education classes and 
training courses.       
 
Component 4:  Materials for Workfare Activities ($30 million) 
The project would on a 
relatively small-scale provide materials for workfare projects under the reoriented Heads of 
Household Program.  The purpose of these projects would be closely linked to improving the 
Page  4
employment prospects of the participants.  They would mainly be small civil works at the 
municipal level, some productive projects for groups of mainly Heads of Household participants, 
and strengthening of community services.  The share of financing will depend on the 
characteristics of the municipalities and agreed during project preparation, but would be less than 
is the case under the current project. 
 
Component 5:  Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation ($5 million).  
This would 
support improvements in management of the Program to integrate better the different 
employment interventions and to provide support to the municipalities in the personalized 
support to beneficiaries.  The existing monitoring system of the Heads of Household Program 
suffered from several weaknesses.  Under the new strategy, it will be important not only to 
strengthen monitoring, but also to change the focus from an emphasis on registration and 
payments to beneficiaries, to one focused more on results in the provision of services to 
beneficiaries, and ultimately, to success in job placement.  The project would also finance 
rigorous evaluations of the impact and cost-effectiveness of the most important employment 
services, as well as education and training.  This would built on earlier evaluations carried out by 
the Ministry supported by the Bank.   
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
The project, as currently defined, does not trigger the Bank’s environmental or social safeguard 
policies.  In order to understand better the social considerations of the Heads of Household 
program, as part of loan preparation, three activities are planned.  These include: (1)  the 
preparation of a social assessment which would cover the informal practices influencing the 
program currently, as well as attitudes towards the policies being proposed for the transitional 
period; (2) the examination in several municipalities of both the management of the Heads of 
Household Program and attitudes/capacity for the new activities to promote employment; and (3) 
a
series of consultations with government and key stakeholders in several regions of the country 
concerning the strategy to be implemented during the transition.  Environmental aspects will 
continue to be addressed in the operational manuals for the relevant components.  Finally, the 
project will continue to support additional improvements in governance of the Heads of 
Household Program, with the aim of bettering its targeting performance.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 
  500 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
250 
 Total 
750 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Theresa Jones 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-5309 
Fax: (202) 522-1201 
Email: Tjones2@worldbank.org 
Page  5
