                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001395



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-73690)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                            ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                     FOR A

               HEADS OF HOUSEHOLD TRANSITION PROJECT



                                  April 26, 2010




Human Development Sector Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 31st, 2010)

                                Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                 AR$ 3.876                     =                          US$1

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1                   ­                        December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGN              Auditoría General de la Nación (National Audit Agency)
ANSES            Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (National Administration of Social
                 Security)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CCT              Conditional Cash Transfer
CIC              Centro Integrador Comunitario (Community Integration Center)
EPH              Encuesta Permanente de Hogares (Permanent Household Survey)
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
HH               Head of Household
ICR              Implementation Completion and Results Report
IERIC            Instituto de Estadística y Registro de la Industria de la Construcción (Institute of
                 Statistics and Registry of the Construction Industry)
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS              Management Information System
MSD              Ministerio de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
MTESS            Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social (Ministry of Labor, Employment and
                 Social Security)
OE               Oficinas de Empleo (Employment Offices)
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PAMI             Programa de Asistencia Médica Integral (Integral Medical Assistance Program)
PDO              Project Development Objectives
SAMEEP           Servicio de Agua y Mantenimiento Empresa del Estado Provincial (Provincial Water
                 Service and Maintenance Company)
SEPA             Sistema de Ejecución de Planes de Adquisiciones (Procurement Plan Execution System)
SOE              Statement of Expenditures
SWAp             Sector-wide Approach
TA               Technical Assistance
UK               United Kingdom
UOCRA            Unión Obrera de la Construcción de la República Argentina (Argentine Construction
                 Workers Union)
US               United States


     Vice President:                             Pamela Cox
     Acting Country Director:                    Stefan Koeberle
     Sector Manager:                             Helena Ribe
     Project Team Leader:                        Theresa Jones
     ICR Team:                                   Theresa Jones and Marcela Salvador
                                    ARGENTINA
                       HEADS OF HOUSEHOLD TRANSITION PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 47
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 49
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 51
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 58
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 59
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 64
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 71
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Heads of Household
Country:                Argentina               Project Name:
                                                                          Transition Project
Project ID:             P055483                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73690
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARGENTINA
Original Total
                        USD 350.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 350.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 350.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministerio de Trabajo
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/24/2004     Effectiveness:             05/18/2006       05/18/2006
Appraisal:            04/15/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/23/2006     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007       09/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                 99                  99
Sub-national government administration                                 1                   1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                               33                  33
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  17                  17
Social safety nets                                                    33                  33
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                               17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Stefan G. Koeberle                   Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Helena G. Ribe                       Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project Team Leader:       Theresa Jones                        Theresa Jones
ICR Team Leader:           Theresa Jones
ICR Primary Author:        Theresa Jones
                           Marcela Ines Salvador


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives are to help: (i) reduce poverty by supporting the
workfare component of the Heads of Household Program, including continued
improvements in Program management and governance; and (ii) promote activities aimed
at getting more beneficiaries of this Program into full-time employment, thereby enabling
them to graduate from the Program. Activities to promote labor market participation by


                                                ii
beneficiaries would include: (i) workfare sub-projects designed especially to promote
employability, for example, by combining them with training, skill certification, and
targets for job placement; (ii) support for productive micro-projects; and (iii) the
establishment and support to municipal offices of employment services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values          Target Years
                Share of participants in lower half of income distribution rising from 88 to 92
Indicator 1 :
                percent;
Value
quantitative or 88%                        91.3%                               91.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                No less than 20 percent of those Heads of Household beneficiaries participating
Indicator 2 : either in workfare activities designed to facilitate employment or training
                couses, placed in jobs;
Value
quantitative or Not less than 20%          19.2%                               16.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                No less than 20 percent of beneficiaries of grants for productive projects engaged
Indicator 3 : in activities generating income at least equal to AR$150/mo after 18 months of
                operation
Value
quantitative or Not less than 20%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                No less than 100,000 (current or newly) ineligible participants dropped from
Indicator 4 :
                Heads of Household Program.
Value
                0                          333,667                             542,357
quantitative or



                                                iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006                   12/31/2007                           12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
                No less than a third of the recipients of grants for productive projects enrolled in
Indicator 1 :   the Registro de Efectores one year after receipt of the materials and equipment
                from the grant;
Value
(quantitative   0                        23%                                28.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006                 12/31/2007                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                No less than 300,000 Heads of Household participants interviewed in
Indicator 2 :
                employment offices;
Value
(quantitative   No less than 300,000     329,476                            381,125
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006                 12/30/2007                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                No less than 150,000 Heads of Household participants having taken a labor
Indicator 3 :
                orientation course; and
Value
(quantitative   No less than 150,000                        49,195          95,499
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006                                    12/30/2007      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                No less than 5,000 Heads of Household participants having completed either
Indicator 4 :
                primary or secondary education cycle.
Value
(quantitative   0                        No less than 5,000 2,473           5,943
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/18/2006                 12/30/2007         12/30/2007      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %



                                                iv
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                 IP         Disbursements
        Archived
                                                            (USD millions)
  1    06/18/2006         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           105.88
  2    10/02/2006         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           130.55
  3    05/19/2007         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           214.70
  4    11/01/2007         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           261.56
  5    03/05/2008         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           286.57
  6    12/01/2008         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           304.94
  7    06/30/2009         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           349.42
  8    12/29/2009         Satisfactory       Satisfactory           350.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

      A. Country and sector issues
Argentina was recovering from a deep economic crisis. At the height of the economic
crisis in April 2002, the Government had created a massive emergency safety net, the
Heads of Household Program (Program), which was supported by the World Bank
(Ln.7157). Economic growth averaged 9 percent during 2003-2005, resulting in a
recovery of GDP to its pre-crisis peak. During the upturn, the incomes of the poor grew
faster than the average for the population, in part reflecting the impact of the Heads of
Household Program. Although the poverty rate fell from its peak of 60 percent to 38.5
percent by the first half of 2005, it was still above the pre-crisis level of 30 percent.
Economic growth had improved job creation and social conditions but much remained to
be done to help those who had yet to benefit from the recovery.

With the normalization of the economic and social situation, in October 2004, the
Government decided on a two-prong transition strategy for the Program to be jointly
managed by the ministries of Social Development and Labor1. The strategy was to
distinguish among the current Program beneficiaries those that had higher re-employment
chances from those that at least currently required a different type of longer-term safety
net, linked to building human capital for children. The strategy was termed `transitional'
as it aimed to support and test several approaches to raise beneficiaries' human capital
and employment prospects, while at the same time facilitating the transfer of
beneficiaries from the current Heads of Household Program to other programs. On
March 29, 2006, the Government announced further measures in the transition strategy
through the creation of a non-contributory Training and Employment Insurance. Initially,
the insurance would only be available to current Heads of Household Program
beneficiaries who could opt to switch to the new program.

      B. Rationale for Bank assistance
The Bank had supported workfare programs in Argentina since 1995 and worked closely
with the Government in the social sectors for two decades. The Bank had collaborated
for many years with the Ministry of Labor, in capacity-building and implementation of a
previous workfare program (Trabajar), as well as with the Ministry of Social
Development in other safety net activities. The Bank had assisted the Government's
crisis response by financing the workfare part of the Heads of Household Program,
promoted governance and management reforms in the Program, and helped to evaluate its
impact. The Project supported the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) overall objective
of helping to reduce the extent and severity of poverty in Argentina and, specifically

1
    Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security.



                                                     1
through the CAS pillar of social inclusion. It also was closely related to the Bank's
broader role in helping the Government to redirect the emergency programs toward
programs that would address medium-term challenges and promote more equity in
opportunities for those who had yet to benefit from the economic recovery, including
through higher employment levels.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objectives were to help: (i) reduce poverty by supporting the
workfare component of the Heads of Household Program, including continued
improvements in Program management and governance; and (ii) promote activities aimed
at getting more beneficiaries of this Program into full-time employment, thereby enabling
them to graduate from the Program.

Outcome Indicators (targets set for December 2007, the original closing date):2

         (i)      Share of participants in lower half of income distribution rising from 88 to
                  92 percent3;

         (ii)     No less than 20 percent of those Heads of Household beneficiaries
                  participating either in workfare activities designed to facilitate
                  employment or training courses, placed in jobs;

         (iii)    No less than 20 percent of beneficiaries of grants for productive projects
                  engaged in activities generating income at least equal to AR$150/mo after
                  18 months of operation; and

         (iv)     No less than 100,000 (current or newly) ineligible participants dropped
                  from the Heads of Household Program. 4

Intermediate Results Indicators:

         (i)      No less than a third of the recipients of grants for productive projects
                  enrolled in the Registro de Efectores (and therefore registered as self-
                  employed who would have to pay taxes after receiving a tax break for two
                  years) one year after receipt of the materials and equipment from the
                  grant;

         (ii)     No less than 300,000 Heads of Household participants interviewed in
                  employment offices;



2
  All outcome and intermediate results indicators are net of expected transfer of beneficiaries to the
Familias Program.
3
  Using data from Permanent Household Survey calculated for individuals post-program payment.
4
  This figure includes remaining, albeit small, errors in eligibility, but also new ineligibility during 2006-
2007 (e.g., beneficiaries not complying with the work requirement, their child exceeds the eligible age,
results of follow-up on new fraud allegations, results of cross-checks with more databases).


                                                      2
       (iii)   No less than 150,000 Heads of Household participants having taken a
               labor orientation course; and

       (iv)    No less than 5,000 Heads of Household participants having completed
               either primary or secondary education cycle.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions to the Project Development Objectives or key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The primary target group was the beneficiaries of the Heads of Household Program who
were to be supported to improve their employment outcomes and graduate from the
Program. Some of the resources of the loan were also directed to activities to strengthen
the capacity of the Ministry, in particular, its initiative to promote a municipal network of
employment services and test strategies and instruments to be used to deliver these
services.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component A: Heads of Household Program Subprojects. Most loan resources were
allocated to financing the transfer payment to those beneficiaries of the Heads of
Household Program complying with the requirement to participate in workfare or
training/education activities. An important aim of the Heads of Household Transition
Strategy was to increase the number of participants who improved their employability by
completing basic education, participating in training courses, combining the work
requirement with on-the-job training, and participating in sub-projects designed to
provide experience and skills for future jobs.

Component B: Heads of Household Productive Subprojects. This component
supported the provision of grants for productive sub-projects proposed by small groups of
Program participants to finance the cost of tools, equipment and inputs.

Component C: Employment Services. This component supported the establishment
and strengthening of employment services in some municipalities.

Component D: Governance Improvements and Monitoring & Evaluation. This
component supported governance improvements in the Program and activities of the
Ministry of Labor to assist small and medium-sized businesses to meet labor and social
security regulations.



1.6 Revised Components




                                             3
As explained below, a Project amendment added a component - Activities to Promote the
Employability of Participants in the Training and Employment Insurance.

1.7 Other significant changes

In mid-2007, the Ministry of Labor and the Bank discussed changes that were needed in
the Project in order to address several issues: the continuing decline in workfare
compliance; the deterioration in the quality and consistency of the administrative data
used to support loan disbursements; and the desire of the Government to extend the
closing date. At the same time, the economic context had continued to improve and good
progress was being made on the transition strategy, including the decision of some
beneficiaries of the Heads of Household Program to opt for the Training and Insurance
Program. It was agreed to amend the Project in order to move from supporting the
overall workfare part of the Heads of Household Program, to supporting only activities
directly linked to improvements in employability. This change also reduced the Project's
fiduciary risk because of the narrower eligibility for financing, as well as the use of more
robust administrative data to support disbursement requests. The amendment narrowed
eligibility to only those Program beneficiaries participating in activities directly related to
improvements in employability (education, training, self-employment subprojects, and
combined training/workfare subprojects). The monthly transfers for the Training and
Employment Insurance participants engaged in the same activities were made eligible for
financing under the Loan, effective October 1, 2007. In addition, the disbursement
percentage for these transfers was increased to 90 percent.

The Country Director approved these changes. Support to the Training and Employment
Insurance fell under the second development objective of the Project. There were no
major changes in implementation arrangements.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation and design reflected sound analytical and operational analysis derived
from Bank involvement in helping the Government respond to the economic crisis,
including the original Heads of Household project. Starting in 2004, the Bank supported
the Government to develop a transition strategy for the Heads of Household Program,
working with the Ministries of Labor and Social Development, in collaboration with the
Inter-American Development Bank. The Project incorporated lessons from best practice
on workfare design, experience from the previous project, and international experience
on employment services and grant financing for productive projects.

The Project was intended to support Government in its transition strategy for the Heads
of Household Program. The development objectives reflected the transition in the
Program by combining its continued operation with improvements in management and
governance, as well as the promotion of activities aimed at getting more beneficiaries into
full-time employment. These objectives were clear, realistic and important. The
transition strategy was an important policy area for the Government and the Project was


                                              4
consistent with the objectives of the strategy to reorient the Program laid out in Decree
1506/04. The Project design built on activities financed under the previous project, but
also included innovations such as upgrading workfare activities to improve the
employability of participants and support to establish a municipal network of
employment services.

All components supported achievement of the objectives of the Project and the transition
strategy. The Project built on the installed capacity of the Ministry of Labor, which was
experienced in the management of previous workfare programs and Bank-financed
projects. The transition strategy involved two ministries, but this was necessary given the
differentiated approach required for beneficiaries and coordination was satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

The Project was extended twice, the first time by a year, to December 31, 2008, and the
second time to September 30, 2009. There were two significant delays early on. First,
Bank senior management postponed Board presentation by about 8 months until the
Government completed a review of the files of Heads of Household Program participants
and addressed any findings, and pending a review by the Bank of any additional remedies
and risk mitigation measures which were needed in order to reduce the risks of
irregularities and ensure the benefits of the Program. During this period the number of
participants in the Heads of Household program declined by 20 percent. Since the largest
expenditure category of the loan financed transfers for temporary workers under the
Program, this delay reduced the pace of disbursements possible under the loan.

Second, works (construction) subprojects did not start being approved until almost a year
after Project effectiveness because it took longer than expected to finalize the operational
manual. In addition, municipal elections in late 2006 delayed the submission of sub-
project proposals. This caused some problems in the execution of these subprojects.

In general, the activities aimed to improve employability were more difficult to
implement than expected, in part because the economic recovery made it hard to attract
participants who had competing opportunities to earn money through informal work.
Enforcement of the work or training/education requirement - historically a problem in the
Program ­ was weak. The supply of training and education courses, especially of
adequate quality, was insufficient in many municipalities. In the case of the productive
subprojects, there were delays in the activation of the National Register of Participants in
Local Development and the Social Economy.

The risks identified in the Project Appraisal Document were generally relevant and
adequately mitigated. Strong economic growth during the period supported an
improvement in labor market conditions, facilitating the transition strategy and after some
initial hesitation, many municipalities opted to establish employment offices. The
Ministry of Labor persisted in improving governance of the Program.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


                                             5
Design is assessed as partially satisfactory. Adequate indicators were identified to
monitor progress towards the Project Development Objectives, drawn mostly from either
existing administrative data or the Permanent Household Survey. The choice of
indicators was consistent with the objectives of the Project ­ temporary employment for
the poor in the Heads of Household Program, governance improvements in the Program,
and promotion of labor market insertion for workfare participants. The monitoring
indicators developed for specific components were fairly comprehensive and operational
(Selected indicators are in Annex 2). The fact that the Permanent Household Survey
contained a question on Program participation was a significant advantage, facilitating
close monitoring and serving as an independent check on the less robust local
administrative data on workfare compliance.

However, the proposed designs for impact evaluations of employment services and for
construction sub-projects were overly ambitious. In the case of the former, the design did
not take into consideration the time necessary to install capacity to provide employment
services. In the case of the latter, the design was impractical given its complex
implementation arrangements.

M&E implementation was satisfactory. The Ministry of Labor demonstrated strong
capacity in this area and had qualified staff. Data was collected on a timely basis and was
made available to operational staff in the Ministry and the Bank. Monthly indicators
were collected on overall trends in the Heads of Household Program and in the Training
and Employment Insurance. The national database on formal employment was cross-
checked periodically in order to track formal employment outcomes. Collection
mechanisms were appropriate and attention was paid to ensuring quality and consistency.
The arrangements appear to be sustainable beyond the Project as they are being extended
to other activities of the Ministry. Although no impact evaluations were carried out, the
Bank and Ministry staff developed alternate arrangements. High-quality and useful ex-
post evaluations were carried out for the construction and productive subprojects. In
order to track progress on the installation of employment services, the Bank and the
Ministry collaborated to design and implement a survey of employment offices.

One minor difficulty was that owing to internal political disagreements within the
Government, after the release of the data for the 1st quarter of 2007, the databases for the
Permanent Household Survey were not made public. Although this was a limitation, by
that point in time, the Bank and the Borrower were discussing the amendment which
discontinued financing of the overall workfare part of the Heads of Household Program,
making this information less crucial. The databases were made available again in 2009.

M&E utilization was satisfactory. Monitoring indicators were reviewed and used to
measure progress and to identify problems for all components. Findings of the ex-post
evaluations were used to modify some procedures and to take remedial actions. There
could have been more effort to monitor the progress and effectiveness of the Project and
the transition strategy as a whole across (and between) the different components and
areas of the Ministry of Labor. Feedback mechanisms and use of the data to inform



                                             6
decision making were adequate at the activity level, but less pro-active at an overall and
more strategic level.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The implementing agency (Ministry of Labor) failed to ensure the carrying out of the
monthly concurrent audit, as stipulated in the Loan Agreement. There were several
problems with the concurrent audit. First, although it should have started when the
Project became effective in May 2006, the agreement between the Ministry of Labor and
the National Audit Agency was not signed until November 2006. Second, although the
Ministry and the Bank received oral briefings from AGN on the results of their field
work, receipt of the reports lagged because of internal administrative delays within the
audit agency, as well as the fact that the agreement with the Ministry did not specify the
delivery dates. The first report was not received until October 2007. Only 3 additional
reports were received (December 2007, September 2008, and July 2009). The field work
covered 9 months out of 40 months of project execution.

An important reason for carrying out the concurrent audit was to facilitate the issuing of
an audit opinion on the Project financial statements. In spite of the spotty performance
on the concurrent audit, the delivery and the findings of the annual financial audits were
satisfactory. Minor weaknesses included the delayed receipt of one annual audit and a
qualification on the opinion for the 2008 audit.

There was relatively little procurement in the Project since cash transfers to beneficiaries
accounted for 85 percent of loan proceeds. In relation to the procurement carried out
under the Project, the Ministry of Labor experienced difficulties in complying with Bank
policy and procedural requirements including the use of the Procurement Plans
Administration System (SEPA) and of correct procedures, and timely notification of
changes to the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

While the Heads of Household Program was an effective program for mitigating the
effects of the 2001-02 crisis, it was designed as an emergency program and was never
intended to be part of a longer-term social protection strategy. Beginning in 2005, the
Government implemented a transition strategy to phase out the Program, which was
supported by the Project and completed in 2010, a year earlier than expected.

The Bank continues to assist the Government of Argentina to strengthen its social
protection system. The Lifelong Learning and Training Project (Ln. 7474) supports
active labor market policies of adult education and training to increase the employability
and productivity of workers, in addition to the installation of a competency-based
qualifications and training system and a youth employment program implemented
through the municipal employment offices. The objective of the Basic Protection Project
(Ln.7703) is to increase the effectiveness of Argentina's income transfer programs for the
unemployed and families with children, by improving selected design features and the
transparency and accountability of Family Allowances and the Training and Employment


                                             7
Insurance. Other specific activities of the Project which aimed to increase employability
have been incorporated into the regular structure of the Ministry of Labor. In March
2009, through Ministerial Resolution No. 274, the Ministry of Labor established a budget
category for productive subprojects in order to continue support for self-employment,
creating a specific area responsible for the activity.

At the beginning of the Project, in part a result of the economic crisis and the rapid scale-
up of the Heads of Household Program, about 600 consultants were financed under the
loan, a situation recognized as undesirable by the Bank and the Government. The
Ministry of Labor agreed to reduce progressively the number of consultants financed by
the Project by 50 percent, mainly through their gradual incorporation into the
administrative structure of the Ministry. Starting from 610 people in July 2006, by
December 2007 the project financed 202 individuals, well below the target of 300. There
were further decreases to 103 in December 2008 and 60 by project closing in September
2009.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design and implementation of the Project remain consistent with
Argentina's development priorities and with Bank country and sector assistance
strategies.    In the most recent Country Partnership Strategy (2010-2012)5, under the
pillar for social inclusion, the objective is to "consolidate the reduction in poverty and
expand efforts to reverse the longer-term poverty trend by increasing household incomes
and integrating marginalized groups into the productive marketplace, to be supported
through programs to improve the employability of the most vulnerable". The report
highlighted the dialogue and solid analytical work that had been undertaken to move the
Heads of Household Program from emergency income support to a more comprehensive,
long-term and sustainable strategy for social protection as well as to a focus on increasing
the employability of the poor. Argentina's generally strong economic performance
provided an appropriate context for Project implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

This section discusses progress on the transition strategy, and achievements on the two
development objectives. Table 1 (p.11) contains the data for the key indicators, showing
actual performance at both the original and revised closing dates. For details on
component outputs see Annex 2.




5
    Report No. 48476, May 6, 2009.


                                             8
Progress on Transition Strategy

As Figure 1 shows, progress on the transition strategy was good. By November 2007,
there were about 770,000 beneficiaries in the Program, 30 percent lower than a year
earlier and below the enrollment projected in the PAD (940,000). The decrease reflected
the transfer of beneficiaries to the Familias conditional cash transfer program and the
Training and Employment Insurance, the continued application of controls and
governance measures by the Ministry of Labor, and growth in employment. By
December 2009, there were only 353,888 beneficiaries in the Program.

                 Figure 1: Trends in Transition Strategy for Heads of Household
                                January 2005 ­ December 2009

    1,800,000               HH Beneficiaries (Left Axis)                                              Transfer to Seguro (Right Axis)                        500,000
                            Transfer to Familias (Right Axis)                                         Exit to formal employment (Right Axis)
    1,620,000               Exit for other reason (Right Axis)                                                                                               450,000

    1,440,000                                                                                                                                                400,000

    1,260,000                                                                                                                                                350,000

    1,080,000                                                                                                                                                300,000

     900,000                                                                                                                                                 250,000

     720,000                                                                                                                                                 200,000

     540,000                                                                                                                                                 150,000

     360,000                                                                                                                                                 100,000

     180,000                                                                                                                                                 50,000

            0                                                                                                                                                0
                 Jan-05




                                            Jan-06




                                                                       Jan-07




                                                                                                       Jan-08




                                                                                                                                  Jan-09
                                   Dec-05




                                                              Dec-06




                                                                                         Dec-07




                                                                                                                         Dec-08




                                                                                                                                                    Dec-09
                          Jul-05




                                                     Jul-06




                                                                                Jul-07




                                                                                                                Jul-08




                                                                                                                                           Jul-09




    Source: Ministry of Labor



On October 2009, the President signed Decree No. 1602 that gives almost all children
under 18 a monthly allowance (US$46), extending a benefit which had been available
only for formal salaried workers' children to children of unemployed and informal
workers, and made it conditional on some health and education requirements. All
participants in the Heads of Household and the Familias Programs were automatically
transferred to the new benefit6. To date, 3.5 million children are registered in the new
family allowance (non-contributory), slightly exceeding the number of children of formal
employed workers who were already receiving the benefit from the contributory system.

Before the reform, family allowances reached about 30 percent of households, by
providing benefits to low and middle-income formal salaried workers. They had a small
progressive impact on income distribution and reduced poverty (2 percent points based
on 2006 data). The reform announced in late 2009 represents an effective approach to

6
 Participants in the Training and Employment Insurance with children have to opt for one or the other
benefit.


                                                                                                  9
increase the impact of the Argentine social protection system on the welfare and human
capital formation of the poor. Ex-ante simulations show that, if family allowances were
extended beyond their current beneficiary population, to cover all children in the first and
second quintiles, extreme poverty would drop from 8 percent to below 3 percent of the
population, at a cost of only 0.5-0.6 percent of GDP7.

Development Objective 1: To reduce poverty by supporting the workfare
component of the Heads of Household Program, including improvements in
Program management and governance.

Previous analysis had shown that overall the Heads of Household Program had been
successful in reaching the poor and mitigating the impact of the social and economic
crisis8. Data from the household survey (2nd semester 2006) confirms the continued
poverty reduction impact of the Program. In its absence, extreme poverty would have
been about 1 percentage point higher (7.8 percent vs. 8.9 percent) with a similar impact
on poverty levels (25.0 percent vs. 25.8 percent). The poverty gap would have been
higher (10.2 percent vs. 11.2 percent), as well would the Gini Index (0.477 vs. 0.482)9.

In relation to the indicators for the first development objective, the target for the
first outcome indicator was met, while the target for the second was exceeded by a
substantial margin. The share of participants in the lower half of the income
distribution rose from the baseline value of 88 percent to 91.8 percent in the first semester
of 2007 and to 94.2 percent in the first semester of 2009. The number of ineligible
participants dropped from the Heads of Household Program was more than double the
target of 100,000 and the trend continued during 2008-2009, reflecting the activities to
improve the beneficiary registry and other governance improvements.

In spite of the Project's performance-based disbursement mechanism, workfare became a
less relevant intervention, reflecting among other factors, a favorable economic context
that generated more job opportunities. The share of Heads of Household participants in
eligible training and education activities, or working 20 hours or more weekly in
workfare activities, declined steadily from 55 percent in the second half of 2004 to
slightly less than 30 percent in the first half of 2007 (Table A2.1 Annex 2). This trend
motivated the amendment which narrowed eligibility for transfer financing at the end of
2007.
                  Table1: Heads of Household Project - Key Indicators
                      Indicators                  Targets set for original         Value              Value

7
 Basic Protection Project (Report 47874-AR), May 4, 2009) and Argentina-Income Support towards the
Bicentennial (Report 44194-AR, 2009).

8
  See Galasso, Emanuela and Martin Ravallion (2004) "Social Protection in a Crisis: Argentina's Plan Jefes
y Jefas", World Bank Economic Review, 18(3): 367-399, and Galasso, Emanuela (2004) "An update on the
impact of the program Jefes y Jefas", World Bank, processed.

9
    See Table 5.3, p. 65, Argentina-Income Support towards the Bicentennial (Report 44194-AR, 2009.



                                                    10
                                                       closing date (12/ 2007)       12/2007            12/2009
                                                   Outcome indicators
                                                                                  EPH 1st         S   EPH 1st     S
        Share of participants in lower half of                                    2007                2009
(i)                                                  88% to 92%
        income distribution rising from:
                                                                                  91.8%               94.2%
        Number of ineligible participants
(ii)    (current or newly) dropped from Heads        No less than 100,000         333,677             542,357
        of Household Program.
        Percentage of Heads of Household
        beneficiaries participating either in        No less than 20 percent of   19,2%               19.9%
(iii)   workfare activities designed to              those beneficiaries.         (Jan. 06 /Dec.      (Jan. 06 /Dec
        facilitate employment or training                                         07)                 09)
        courses, placed in jobs.
        Percentage of beneficiaries receiving
        grants for productive projects engaged
        in activities generating income at least     No less than 20 percent of
(iv)                                                                              Not available       35.4%
        equal to AR$150/mo after 18 months           those beneficiaries.
        of operation.
Intermediate Results Indicators
      Percentage of the recipients of grants
      for productive projects enrolled in the
      Registro de Efectores (and therefore
      registered as self-employed that would         No less than a third of
(i)   have to pay taxes after receiving a tax                                     23%                 28.5%
                                                     recipients
      break for two years) one year after
      receipt of the materials and equipment
      from the grant.
        Number of Heads of Household
(ii)    participants interviewed in                  No less than 300,000         329,476             381,125
        employment offices.
        Number of Heads of Household
(iii)   participants having taken a labor            No less than 150,000         49,195              124,91110
        orientation course.
        Number of Heads of Household
(iv)    participants having completed either         No less than 5,000           2,47311             5,94312
        primary or secondary education cycle.


Development Objective 2: To promote activities aimed at getting more beneficiaries
of the Heads of Household Program into full-time employment, thereby enabling
them to graduate from the Program.

This section summarizes the contribution of the Project activities which were intended to
contribute to the achievement of the second development objective. These included: (i)

10
    Includes HH and SCyE beneficiaries with individual labor orientation interviews at the employment
offices (95.499) beneficiaries in labor orientation courses (19.580) and beneficiaries in labor orientation
courses for independent work (9.832).
11
   Partial data covering only thirteen provinces.
12
   Idem footnote 9.


                                                         11
education and training; (ii) workfare subprojects designed to promote employability by
combining them with training and skill certification, (iii) support for productive micro-
projects; and (iv) the establishment and support to municipal offices of employment
services. The focus is on achievements on the key outcome and intermediate results
indicators (Table 1).

Education and Training. Activities included professional training and completion of
basic education. The objective of increasing the number of Heads of Household
participants in these activities faced several challenges: insufficient supply of training
courses of reasonable quality; the lack of flexible provincial adult education systems; and
less than expected counseling of participants given the incipient stage of employment
services. Nevertheless, the Program did generate more demand for second chance adult
education, and some progress was made in increasing the "weight" of training and
education as a participant activity, from 11 percent in 2007 to 20 percent in 2009 (Table
A2.2 Annex 2).

The intermediate results target of no less than 5,000 participants having completed
either the primary or secondary education cycle was not reached by the end of 2007
(the original closing date), but was exceeded by 20 percent by the revised Project
closing date. Given the scarcity of flexible modalities it took more time than expected
for adults to complete the basic education cycles. These figures also underestimate the
actual results of the Project. It proved difficult to obtain information on certification, so
the data only reflects the results for 13 out of 24 provinces and is missing the province of
Buenos Aires, the largest and proactive in adult education.

Workfare Subprojects ­ Construction. A sector that the Ministry of Labor had
identified as promising for generating employment opportunities for Heads of Household
and Insurance participants was construction. In order to increase employability, Heads of
Household participants interested in construction worked on small infrastructure projects.
Participants were to receive on-the-job training towards certification and access to a basic
social insurance package available for construction workers13.

Based on the data available at the end of 2009, the training results fell well short of
expectations. For about 80 percent of the subprojects covered in the sample for the ex-
post evaluation, the results achieved on training were rated as low for a variety of
reasons. The tutoring had taken place, but actual construction had been delayed, so
participants had gotten little practical experience. Participation of beneficiaries was low,
while many of those who did the actual work already had sufficient experience. For
some subprojects, the final visit of a representative of the construction union, necessary


13
  The Libreta de Aportes is an obligatory document provided by the National Registry of the Construction
Industry in order to record information on the employment history of construction workers. The document
records the required contribution by the employer during the duration of the contract, to be used to finance
an unemployment benefit, which can be accessed by a worker if unemployed. Contractors often require
workers to show the libreta before hiring them, before it reduces paperwork for the employer.



                                                    12
in order to receive the Libreta de Aportes (libreta) had not taken place. As of December
2009, only 1060 libretas had been delivered. While this represented around 60 percent of
the participants who had worked in subprojects completed by that date, it represented
only 10% of total participants, reflecting significant delays and other implementation
problems. The figure was likely to go up since the delivery of about 800 additional
libretas was in process at the end of 2009. In sum, implementation of this activity turned
out to be very challenging, and would have benefited from more intense and pro-active
management. These challenges included: coordination between the training and the
construction activities; balancing the importance of the training with the construction
activity; and the labor market context. (See annex 2 for more details).

Productive subprojects

The Project provided support to small groups of beneficiaries of the Heads of Household
Program to finance the cost of tools, equipment and inputs for productive activities. An
ex-post review of a sample of the productive subprojects (Cirstina Cogliati 2008) rated
them on sustainability, trends on production and sales, income levels for the workers, and
the quality of management. Slightly over 80 percent of the subprojects were in operation.
Within that group, 44 percent were ranked high, 17 percent were ranked medium, 15
percent were ranked low, and the remaining quarter were unsustainable. Taken together
the subprojects ranked as either high or medium on sustainability represented two/thirds
of those still in operation or about half of the total sample. According to the information
gathered, all enterprises ranked as highly sustainable generated stable employment for the
participants. For about a third of the sample, the participants earned more than the
minimum wage; for only a few active enterprises were earnings lower than the transfer
that they received from the Heads of Household Program.
Two performance indicators relate to this subcomponent. In line with the information
presented above, results on the outcome indicator which measures the share of
beneficiaries able to earn through the enterprise more than AR$150/mo. after 18
months of operation, are positive at slightly over a third, above the target of 20
percent. The intermediate indicator is the share of participants who are enrolled in the
Registro de Efectores one year after receipt of the materials and equipment. As of
December 2009, 2200 projects were registered in the Registro de Efectores, slightly over
40 percent of the total. Because not all participants working in an enterprise
necessarily registered, the share of participants is lower at 28.5 percent, falling
slightly short of the target of a third of participants. Implementation difficulties with
the registry are likely to have contributed to the shortfall. Performance is still judged
satisfactory for two reasons. One, registration is important because it is difficult for
enterprises to sell their goods or services on a reasonable scale unless they provide
receipts. However, this is possible as long as at least one participant in the group
registers. Also, in the case of family enterprises, if one member was registered he/she
could obtain benefits for other family members.

Overall Performance




                                            13
The table below shows the accumulated participation of Heads of Household and
Insurance Program beneficiaries in the main activities designed to promote employment.
The number of participants which exited because they obtained formal employment is
provided for reference. The increase in the "weight" of these activities in the Program
was modest; even by the end of the Program when the number of participants was much
smaller, only slightly over 20 percent were in activities to promote employability. The
third results indicator measures the employment outcomes of these activities. Actual
performance fell only slightly shore of the target of no less than 20 percent as of 2007,
but met the target as of 2009. As of December 2007, 19.2 percent of the beneficiaries
participating either in workfare activities designed to facilitate employment or
training courses, were placed in jobs, and by December 2009, the share had
increased slightly (19.9 percent).

                        Table 2: Promoting Employability Activities
                                      December                                 December
Number        of         HH/Insurance 2007                                     2009
beneficiaries
Attended professional training              29,469                             60,422

Attended school                             99,345                             129,768

Participated       in        community      3,083                              11,023
infrastructure sub-projects
Participated in productive sub-projects     4,747                              12,846
Other                                                                          900
Total                                       136,644                            214,959
As share of total beneficiaries             12.1%                              22.6%
Exited for formal employment                204,815                            318,251


Training and Employment Insurance

The Training and Employment Insurance contributed to the objective of
employment and graduation for Heads of Household participants. First, there was a
two year time limit on participation. As shown in Figure 2, by the end of 2009,
approximately 125,600 workers had participated in the Insurance. Nearly 58,900 exited
because they reached the time limit.14 Another 23,600 left the program because they got
a job, or to a lesser extent, accessed a pension.

       Figure 2: Total participants and participants leaving Seguro, by reasons



14
   Because of the international economic crisis that affected Argentina, in early 2009, the Ministry
approved a one year extension of the time limit for the Insurance for any participant who would reach the
original 2 year limit through December 2009 (Res. No. 241, March 2009). In total 36,020 participants were
reincorporated.


                                                    14
120,000                                                                                                                                          12,000
                   Seguro beneficiaries (Left Axis)
                   Exit to formal employment (Right Axis)
100,000            Exit to pensions (contributory and non-contributory) (Right Axis)                                                             10,000
                   End of contract (Right Axis)

 80,000                                                                                                                                          8,000


 60,000                                                                                                                                          6,000


 40,000                                                                                                                                          4,000


 20,000                                                                                                                                          2,000


      -                                                                                                                                          -
                                     Feb-07




                                                                         Feb-08




                                                                                                             Feb-09
          May-06

                   Aug-06

                            Nov-06




                                              May-07

                                                       Aug-07

                                                                Nov-07




                                                                                  May-08

                                                                                           Aug-08

                                                                                                    Nov-08




                                                                                                                      May-09

                                                                                                                               Aug-09

                                                                                                                                        Nov-09
 Source: Ministry of Labor


Second, an explicit aim of the Insurance was to promote participation in activities to
improve employability. Beneficiaries signed an agreement stipulating a schedule of
appointments at the employment office and their agreement to follow-up on the advice
provided. Figure 3 shows the extent to which access to and coverage of the Insurance
increased, measured by the number of municipalities (employment offices) implementing
the program, as well as the share of individuals participating in activities designed to
promote employability. About 50 percent of individuals participated in an activity at
some point and between 20-30 percent were participating at any one time (as measured
by monthly rates of participation). In addition, participants of the Insurance were
required to attend counseling and follow-up meetings at the employment offices. On
average, participants actually received 5 sessions.




                   Figure 3: Participation in Seguro activities and number of EO




                                                                                     15
120,000                                                                                                                                           400
                            Seguro beneficiaries (Left Axis)
                            Beneficiaries doing counterpart (Right Axis)
                                                                                                                                                  350
100,000                     Employment Offices (Right Axis)

                                                                                                                                                  300
 80,000
                                                                                                                                                  250

 60,000                                                                                                                                           200

                                                                                                                                                  150
 40,000
                                                                                                                                                  100
 20,000
                                                                                                                                                  50

      -                                                                                                                                           0
                                      Feb-07




                                                                          Feb-08




                                                                                                              Feb-09
          May-06

                   Aug-06

                             Nov-06




                                               May-07

                                                        Aug-07

                                                                 Nov-07




                                                                                   May-08

                                                                                            Aug-08

                                                                                                     Nov-08




                                                                                                                       May-09

                                                                                                                                Aug-09

                                                                                                                                         Nov-09
 Source: Ministry of Labor




Employment Offices

The Project supported the establishment of municipal offices of employment services, the
provision of technical assistance and equipment, and the testing of instruments to work
with clients. The number of offices reached 168 by the end of 2007 and 310 by the end
of 2009, exceeding by a substantial margin the target of 100 set out in the PAD.

There are two relevant intermediate results indicators. The goal that no less than
300,000 Heads of Household beneficiaries would be interviewed in employment
offices was exceeded by 10 percent by end 2007 and by nearly 30 percent by the end
of 2009. These individuals were by and large those participants who were interviewed as
part of the transition of beneficiaries to the Employment and Training Insurance. There
was a substantial shortfall on the 2nd indicator (no less than 150,000 Heads of
Household beneficiaries having taken a labor orientation course) as of December
2007, but the gap was narrowed by December 2009, with achievement only 17
percent below the target. The shortfall is explained by a combination of factors:


     · It proved difficult to find competent staff for the employment offices, particularly
        in the northern region, where there is a concentration of Heads of Household
        participants. Staff had particular problems to put in place the labor market
        orientation courses. For that reason different modalities for delivering the course
        were tested, including subcontracting (See Annex 8, p. 60 for more details).

     · Participation in the courses was voluntary.

     · Because of difficulties in the operation of the management information system,
        not all participants in the courses were registered. In addition, although the



                                                                                     16
         subcontracting option mentioned above had some success, its use is likely to
         have contributed to under-reporting.
In order to provide more information on the status of service provision and other
operational aspects, a survey of employment offices was carried out at the end of 2009
and beginning of 2010. A summary of the findings of the survey is contained in Annex
8.

3.3 Efficiency

The economic and financial analysis takes into account the fact that with the continued
decline in the compliance with the work or education/training requirement, the Heads of
Household Program became less and less a classic workfare program. Thus the cost
effectiveness framework for a workfare program is no longer relevant. The efficiency of
the Project is assessed positively based on: (i) the improvements in already good
targeting to the poor; (ii) demonstrable impact on reducing poverty and inequality; (iii)
the sustainability of selected subprojects; and (iv) the lack of an increase in the value of
the transfer level consistent with the objective of promoting the transition strategy.
Details are in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall outcome rating is assessed as satisfactory. The relevance of the Project was
high. The transition strategy was implemented well and ahead of schedule. Performance
on all 4 results indicators was fully satisfactory; in two cases achievements exceeded the
targets. Results on the intermediate indicators were not as good. However, in the 3 (out
of 4) indicators with shortfalls, the gap was largely made up by the actual closing date for
the Project. Efficiency is satisfactory as well, given the poverty impact, the evidence of
the quality and sustainability of the productive and works subprojects, and the
maintenance of the value of the transfer.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

This section covers gender aspects, since poverty impact is discussed in Section 3.2.
When the Project started, nearly 70 percent of the beneficiaries of the Heads of
Household Program were women, and this share increased during implementation.
Based on the initial experience of working with these beneficiaries, staff of the Ministry
recognized the need to increase gender considerations. In order to work specifically in
this area, the Ministry supplemented Project resources with a grant from the Gender
Action Plan. In particular, the Ministry developed materials to be used in activities for
domestic workers (the main previous employment experience of the participants of the
Heads of Household Program). The grant, still in execution, aims to improve the quality
of employment services, particularly for low-income women in the Heads of Household
Program and the Training and Employment Insurance, by incorporating methodologies
and practices promoting gender equality within the Directorate of Employment Services


                                              17
of the Ministry of Labor, as well as the employment offices. For the latter, the grant aims
to strengthen capacity to interact with employers and to counsel female jobseekers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project helped to increase the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Labor in
several areas. First, there were substantial investments financed by the Project to
improve the information systems in the Ministry, in particular the platform used to
register those participants in education and training activities attending activities
sponsored by the Ministry or receiving financial support in the form of per diems. The
information system supporting the eventual installation of a lifelong learning system is
building on this platform. In addition, the project supported capacity strengthening in the
area of employment services, particularly for the staff of the Ministry of Labor.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

During implementation of the Project there were consultations on the role and design of
income transfers carried out in the context of analytical and advisory activities.15 There
were two main instruments: first, a set of consultations with policy makers and
practitioners in social policy, mainly at the provincial level (over 300 consultations); and
second, a nationally representative opinion survey on the views and perceptions of the
population. The survey found that there is a consensus that the current income support
programs are important, regardless of whether there is a crisis. Less than 30 percent of
the population would like to eliminate income support programs even if they could not be
improved. A majority (61 percent) agreed that "programs are always needed because
there are people who need them," whereas 28 percent agreed that "programs are only
needed during economic crisis". Similarly, 41 percent believe that poverty would be
worse in Argentina without the programs, 38 percent think that unemployment would be
worse, and 37 percent think that inequality would be negatively affected.

The consultations and survey indicated a strong interest in linking income transfers to the
labor market. While there is debate about the level to which social programs should be
linked to the labor market, both the consultations and the survey sent strong messages,
that employment should be an objective of social policy, and that labor market incentives
and opportunities should be considered in policy design. Related to this sentiment, there
was nearly universal support (93 percent in the survey) for some form of conditionality to
be included in the design of social programs.

The potential beneficiary population expressed a strong preference for programs with
tangible labor market outcomes. Beneficiaries prefer programs that would provide

15
  The findings of the consultations and survey are summarized in Argentina: Income Support Policies
towards the Bicentennial, Report no. 44194-AR.


                                                18
training, employment services, and ideally a guaranteed job upon completion, even if it
would mean a lower benefit amount or duration of eligibility. This finding indicates
strong support for the Training and Employment Insurance which combines a cash
benefit with employment services.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

For both objectives, implementation is well aligned with the operating environment in
Argentina and the Bank. The assessment of risk to development outcome takes into
account that the Project was intended to support the Government in its transition strategy
for the Heads of Household Program, rather than to support longer term social policy.
Progress on the transition strategy exceeded expectations. At the end of 2009, the Heads
of Household Program was eliminated as all remaining beneficiaries were automatically
transferred to a family allowance. This decision is highly unlikely to be reversed.

Under the second development objective, many activities to promote employment were
intended to lay the base for broader support to poor unemployed and workers seeking to
improve their employment conditions. This is the case, for example, for training and
education and for employment services. In regards to the former, the Ministry of Labor
has an eventual goal of installing in Argentina a lifelong learning and training system
linked to employment, which is being supported by a Bank-financed project. This is a
long term process which will require substantial efforts. Bank Support and monitoring
would continue under Ln. 7474. In the case of employment services, progress in their
installation exceeded the targets in the PAD, but there was a shortfall on achievements in
service delivery. The offices will continue to be supported and monitored by the Bank
under Ln. 7474 because of their role in the youth employment component ­ evidence
itself of a continuation of their envisaged role in the social protection system in
Argentina. The installation of a municipal network of employment offices providing
effective services is a long-term effort. For both education and training activities and
public employment services, it is too soon to predict their outcome, although signs up to
now are favorable. There is a question mark on the Training and Employment Insurance.
Since it is incompatible with the family allowance, if it continues to exist, it would have a
smaller role than anticipated when it was launched in the management of the risks
associated with unemployment and low qualifications.




                                             19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry was moderately satisfactory for the
following reasons. The Bank's long involvement in public works programs in Argentina
via investment lending and support for monitoring and evaluation is reflected in the
quality of background analysis and project design. The Bank's support to the
development of the transition strategy for the Heads of Household program ensured the
strategic relevance and approach of the Project. The Project incorporated lessons from
the previous loan. Project preparation included an independent quality review organized
at the request of the task manager in order to get technical input on the strategy to
increase the employment focus. Expertise from the United Kingdom on employment
services contributed to project preparation and dialogue with the Borrower. The role of
the Heads of Household Program in reducing poverty and in making growth post-crisis
more pro-poor had been established in previous analytical work. It was expected that this
impact would diminish as economic recovery permitted the phase-out of the Program.
The social assessment was useful in revealing the opinions of stakeholders on the current
operation of the Heads of Household Program and the new activities proposed. It
included a study to explore the capacity and willingness of municipalities to carry out the
activities intended to promote employability, as well as four local level consultations
undertaken with the Ministries of Labor and Social Development to share views on the
transition strategy. Particular efforts were made to strengthen fiduciary safeguards,
including the incorporation of suggestions from specialized Bank departments.

However, there are moderate shortcomings. One, while monitoring indicators were
appropriate and drawn from the management information system of the Ministry of Labor
or the Permanent Household Survey, the Bank team proposed impact evaluation designs
which were too ambitious, particularly given the incipient stage of the employment
services. Two, the performance-based disbursement design was over-optimistic on the
ability of the Government to turn a trend of declining work compliance, particularly in
the absence of any change in the legal or institutional framework for the Heads of
Household Program. As a result, it did not achieve its intended objective as an incentive
for better performance in this area

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons. The team focused on
development impact by closely monitoring and reporting on the key indicators and the
transition strategy. Bank staff carried out enhanced supervision activities (Box 1) and


                                            20
was pro-active in identifying as problematic the decline in workfare compliance and
came up with a solution that continued to support the transition strategy while managing
and reducing project fiduciary risk. The regular procurement and financial management
reviews were carried out and the ratings reflected in the ISRs16.

Supervision inputs and processes were adequate. Supervision visits were undertaken and
ISRs prepared twice a year. The presence in the field of a highly qualified consultant
experienced with Ministry of Labor programs and Bank procedures was crucial for the
enhanced supervision, facilitated communications with the Borrower and timely
resolution of problems, and generated more knowledge on local implementation of
Project activities. The Bank arranged the participation of OECD expertise on 3 occasions
to provide technical assistance and review progress on the installation of employment
services. The Bank organized a trip to the US and to the United Kingdom for a Ministry
of Labor team for in-depth discussions with service operators. The quality of
performance reporting was satisfactory. Staff highlighted progress in the transition
strategy, including trends in the Heads of Household Program and the Training and
Employment Insurance, implementation issues with specific components and delays in
receipt of the concurrent audit reports. Management reviewed and commented on issues
raised in the ISRs. Supervision included discussions on transition arrangements.




16
  Later ISRs showed lower ratings in financial management than in the reviews after taking into account
the deficiencies in carrying out the concurrent audit.


                                                  21
                     Box1: Enhanced Supervision Activities and Results

        Enhanced supervision included field visits by Bank staff to make spot checks, preparation of
monthly reports on Heads of Household Program trends for Bank senior management and press monitoring.

         Spotchecks. Following on the experience under the previous Heads of Household Project (Ln.
7357), the Bank was concerned about the quality of the administrative data of the Ministry of Labor,
specifically the extent to which the municipal data captured in the MIS of the Ministry, which was the
source of the information presented in the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), was consistent with actual
workfare compliance. For that reason Bank staff carried out several spot checks of this consistency in
selected municipalities. The spot checks showed a decline in the consistency of the administrative data of
the Ministry compared with the information at the municipal level from about 70 percent to 35 percent
(June/July 2006 to October 2007). After discussing the results with the authorities of the Ministry of
Labor, two actions resulted. First, the Ministry of Labor instructed its provincial offices and the
municipalities to review the information and adjust as necessary. Second, the Bank and the Government
decided to amend the loan agreement in order to narrow the eligibility for transfer payments to those
participants for which more robust information was available from the MIS.

          Monthly Monitoring Reports. From February 2006 to July 2007 Bank staff sent a monthly
report to Bank senior management containing short-term monitoring indicators for the Heads of Household
Program, covering the following areas: total program enrollment, progress on the transition strategy,
complaints received and their resolution, workfare compliance rates, targeting efficiency indicators, and the
results of the spot checks (Table A2.7 in Annex 2).

         Press Review. Bank staff reviewed systematically the coverage of the Heads of Household
Program in the national and provincial press. With the exception of irregularities reported in one province
on the execution of construction subprojects, on which the Ministry of Labor took remedial actions, the
press reports did not include allegations or evidence of irregular use of the Program.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Taking into account the two moderate shortcomings identified in Bank performance in
ensuring quality at entry, overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government was committed to the Heads of Household Transition Strategy and
supported the specific actions of the Ministry of Labor and the Ministry of Social
Development to carry it out. The effective coordination between the two ministries
demonstrated that this was Government policy. The enabling environment was
supportive.     Strong macroeconomic management during the period of Project
implementation promoted strong employment growth, facilitating progress on the
transition strategy. Overall project implementation was monitored by the Ministry of
Economy, as well as the Office of the Chief of Cabinet, including discussion of the


                                                    22
amendment in 2007. The decision by the Government in late 2009 to put in place a non-
contributory family allowance completed the transition from the emergency Heads of
Household Program, although it did raise questions about the sustainability and future
role of the Training and Employment Insurance. Minor shortcomings included the
unavailability until recently of data from the Permanent Household Survey, which had
been an important source of monitoring data for the Heads of Household Program, and
the weak performance of the National Audit Agency on the concurrent audit.

(b) Implementing Agency or Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Ministry Labor through the Secretariat for Employment was responsible for
implementation of most of the Project, with the exception of one activity under
Component E which was carried out by the Secretariat of Labor. The agency was highly
committed to implementation of the transition strategy and improvements in the
employability of the participants of the Heads of Household Program. Consultations with
stakeholders and local governments regarding the transition strategy were good. The
Project was ready for implementation as the transition strategy had been announced;
subsequent announcement of the Training and Employment Insurance strengthened this
strategy. The goals set out in the Project for the transition strategy were superseded.

Those positive features notwithstanding, there were some shortcomings. Overall
coordination of the Project activities occurred mainly in the administrative area, while
technical responsibilities for specific activities (construction subprojects, productive
subprojects, Training and Employment Insurance, employment offices) were distributed
throughout the Ministry. Given the challenges in increasing the employment focus and
results, overall Project direction and the management of some components would have
benefited from a more pro-active and coordinated approach. Problems were resolved, but
perhaps took more time to surface because there were few individuals who monitored all
the activities being implemented and the information on results.                There were
shortcomings on compliance with covenants related to financial management, as well as
with procurement guidelines. Monitoring information was adequate, but did not seem to
be used to its full potential to influence Ministry decisions. There were delays in the
start-up of the construction sub-projects and less utilization than expected of the per diem
expenditure category. The time for Project execution was about double what had been
expected (43 months vs. 22 months).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Given the moderate shortcomings identified in the performance of the Implementing
Agency, the Overall Borrower Performance is considered moderately satisfactory.




                                            23
6. Lessons Learned

   ·   The Heads of Household Program had been a successful crisis response, but
       it is important for emergency programs to have an explicit exit strategy once
       the emergency is over. The experience of the Project shows that this is possible.
       In addition, the actions the Government took during the transition have laid the
       base for activities that could be part of a longer term social protection strategy, for
       example, the public employment services.


   ·   Supported by the Ministry of Labor, a substantial number of municipalities
       in Argentina decided to establish public employment services. While this is
       an encouraging development, experience under the Project suggests that the
       installation of a network of public employment services takes time and will be a
       long-term effort requiring further efforts at capacity building and performance
       management in order to install an effective system.



   ·   It is important to ensure that the specific interventions for which the Bank is
       providing assistance are framed within a broader policy dialogue that
       provides a consistent strategic context. The longer term goal of generating
       conditions of employability for those marginalized from the labor market was
       initially addressed through the Heads of Household Transition Project, but the
       longer term challenges involved in creating quality employment services will
       continue to be addressed through other suitable instruments, in this case under the
       Life Long Learning Project



   ·   In the absence of flexible delivery systems (self-directed learning, module and
       pertinent curriculum, and tutoring support) for adult education, it is difficult
       to scale-up services and attract students. This activity might have achieved
       more results if arrangements for second chance education had been more
       appropriate and if there had been more attention to results.


   ·   Process evaluations can be an important monitoring tool. When new services
       are being installed, as was the case for the employment services, process
       evaluations may be more appropriate than an impact evaluation, and in any case
       should precede an impact evaluation, in order to know what is being evaluated.




                                             24
   ·   Initiatives to promote employment are likely to be more effective if combined
       with up-front counseling, in order to ensure that training is suitable and of
       interest to the potential participant. This is turn makes the training more effective
       in improving employability. The lack of up-front counseling may be part of the
       reason for the disappointing results on the construction subprojects.


   ·   Another strategy to make training more effective in improving employability
       is to focus on a sector with expanding employment. With sufficient knowledge
       and cooperation, training can be tailored to the specific needs of that industry.
       This occurred in the case of Chaco in the component of construction projects (See
       Annex 2). It is a good practice which could service as a model.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
 The Heads of Household Program played an important part in the Social Protection
sector, simultaneously serving two problems that affected the population: unemployment,
which generated poverty because of a lack of income, as well as more structural poverty
situations.
The Argentine government launched a support strategy for poor households where the
head was unemployed. This strategy adopted different policies over time so as to
accompany changes in the labor market as well as the population's needs.
In this sense, the Secretary of Employment considers it appropriate to evaluate the Heads
of Household Project as a whole, analyzing it as a social safety net policy in the context
of crisis and reflecting on some lessons learned, beyond the financing of the two loans,
highlighting that both completed the objectives proposed as established in the Loan
Agreement and the PAD, and supported the policy guidelines established by the
Argentine Government. One of the most significant contributions of the Project to
Government strategy was the support for the strengthening and expansion of the network
of municipal offices of employment. The municipal employment offices represent a key
institution for the implementation of active labor market policies, mobilizing local
resources and capacity in order to offer options for the most vulnerable workers to
improve their employability, and playing a role to strengthen the supply of local
education and training services.


Lessons Learned:


 1. In order to respond to a crisis, there is a need for a rapid and massive response in
    order to be able to help the vulnerable through social and economic contingencies.
    The plan for exiting the program should be progressive; ensuring that the
    population remains in the social protection system since recuperation and
    opportunities for the most vulnerable sector of the population is slower than in other
    economic indicators.


                                            25
 2. In order to rapidly design and implement on a social policy on such a large scale,
    certain conditions and minimum institutional capacities need to already be in place
    for it to begin to function. At the same time it is necessary to maintain a monitoring
    and evaluation framework of results that allows for systematic and constant
    improvement linked to governance and continuous improvement.




 3. The addition of new local actors in the administration of policies assured proximity
    to those in a vulnerable situation, and to the unemployed who sought out
    employment opportunities.


          a. Strengthening and creating local institutions with a growing capacity to
             develop strategies for people with employment problems. Development of
             strategies for institutional strengthening in the local environment: young
             people and adult education system, job centers, professional training
             institutions.
          b. Despite the efforts and investment that were carried out to strengthen
             capacity, the processes of construction or reconstruction of institutions do
             not always advance at the same pace as the needs of the programs and
             policies. This was the situation for formal education options and
             professional training institutions as well as municipal employment offices.
             Local level capacities varied greatly, and as a consequence, the quality and
             coverage of the services provided was also diverse. .


   4. Development of an exit strategy should be based on the beneficiaries' voluntary
      decision to embark upon possible personal development and social inclusion.
      There is a need for institutional environments close to the beneficiaries in order to
      guide them in aspects linked to human development, as well as processes of labor
      insertion. This strategy implies at the same times risks related to the availability
      (or not) of the human, institutional and financial resources necessary to achieve
      these objectives.


   5. Administrative decentralization allowed for greater proximity to heterogeneous
      situations of poor and unemployed workers, as well as more effective problem
      solving and promoting employment and other opportunities. This was an
      important element in designing the program's exit system.

Conclusions:



                                           26
The objectives of the Heads of Household Program were sufficient to help households
affected by poverty and unemployment during the crisis of 2002. The performance was
highly satisfactory in terms of targeting, reaching the poorest households and carrying out
a decisive role for the first phase of economic recuperation since it benefitted the
population with fewest resources.
The improvement in the general economic and social situation has provided the
Government with a new challenge in terms of social policy, with the need to approach the
process of reorienting the Heads of Households Program, towards new political
strategies, establishing different alternatives for beneficiaries according to their needs,
capacities and opportunities with a central focus on decent employment. The Training
and Employment Insurance, the Plan Familias for Social Inclusion and recently the
Asignación Universal por Hijo, constitute a more appropriate and effective social
protection strategy in the current economic context than the Heads of Household
Program for those individuals who ho, post-crisis, have not been able to find quality
employment.
(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                            27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
                                                                   17
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                                   Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                                       Appraisal
                                                        millions)
 Component      A:    Heads    of
Household Program Sub-Projects
                                       2,199.00          1,406.60                          64.0
(Community Services and Works,
Training, and Basic Education)
 Component      B:    Heads    of
Household      Productive    Sub-         23.00             35.5                          154.3
Projects
 Component C: Training and
                                                           229.10
Employment Insurance
Component      D:    Employment
                                           5.00              5.12                         102.4
Services
 Component      E:    Governance
Improvements and Monitoring &              2.70              3.00                         111.1
Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                    2,229.70          1,679.32                          75.3
Physical Contingencies                                                                     0.00
                                                0.00                    0.00
Price Contingencies                                                                        0.00
                                               0.00                   0.00
Total Project Costs                        2,229.70               1,679.32                 75.3
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                   0.00                  .00
Front-end fee IBRD                             3.50                   0.00                  .00
Total Financing Required                   2,233.20               1,679.32                 75.2

(b) Financing
                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                             (USD         (USD     Appraisal
                                            millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                1,883.2      1,329.3         70.6
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                       350.00           350.00                 100.0
and Development

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


17
  Significant variances with appraisal estimates due in the case of Component A to faster implementation
of transition strategy than expected and the addition of Insurance component with the 2007 amendment and
in the case of Component B to the Government's decision to provide more than expected counterpart
resources.



                                                  28
The Project supported key components of the Heads of Household transition strategy:

     ·   Continued funding of Heads of Household transfer payments of workfare
         participants during the transition phase. Workfare activities would include new,
         employment oriented fulfillment of the work requirement (Component A);

     ·   Promotion of small-scale productive activities by groups of beneficiaries through
         the provision of grants (Component B);

     ·   As of October 1, 2007, funding for participants of the Training and Employment
         Insurance in eligible activities (Component C);

     ·   Development of Employment Services (Component D); and

     ·   Control and governance improvements in the Program (Component E).
Information on the outputs for each component follows below.

Component A: Heads of Household Program Sub-projects (Community Services
and Works, Training and Basic Education)

General Workfare Activities

Most loan resources financed the workfare part of the Heads of Household Program
whose participants continued to receive AR$150 per month. At the time the Project was
prepared most of the beneficiaries who were complying fulfilled their work requirement
in community services (soup kitchens, child care, schools, health centers, etc.), municipal
services (maintenance of buildings, cleaning of public spaces, etc.), or small construction
projects.

The Project design for this component, specifically related to the disbursements for the
largest expenditure category in the loan (Category A ­ Remuneration for Temporary
Workers) was performance-based. The disbursements of funds from Category A were to
be paced in-line with the number of beneficiaries that participated in either a work or
education/training or job-search activity18. The design reflected the importance the Bank
attached to the work requirement and was intended to provide an incentive to the
Government to continue efforts to improve the Program on a variety of fronts including
enforcing controls over eligibility requirements, promoting the timely transfer of eligible
beneficiaries to Familias, and expanding employment support activities and promoting
the participation of Heads of Household beneficiaries. According to the agreed upon


18
   Upon Project effectiveness, the Bank used a disbursement ratio of 40 percent of the amount of the
transfer to beneficiaries that complied with the workfare requirement. The disbursement rate would: (i)
increase to 55 percent if the combined share of beneficiaries in activities in which they work more than 15
hours and those in education and training activities reached 60 percent; and (ii) increase to 60 percent if the
combined compliance exceeded 65 percent.


                                                     29
disbursement mechanism, the share of Bank financing in total Program expenditure could
vary depending on the overall workfare compliance rates of the Program

Contrary to expectations and in spite of the performance incentives, the rate of workfare
compliance did not improve. As shown in Table A2.1, the share of Program participants
complying with the work requirement steadily declined, owing to several factors. A
growing economy generated more informal employment opportunities for participants or
their family members. And even for a reduced number of participants, the organization
of sufficient, meaningful workfare activities and, more generally, enforcement of the
work requirement, remained extremely difficult for many municipalities. The
performance incentives (in the form of an increase in the base level disbursement rates)
never took effect. This design feature was abandoned when the 2nd amendment took
effect (March 25, 2008).

                      Table A2.1: Compliance with work requirement


                              II         II            I          II         I          I
                              Semester   Semester      Semester   Semester   Semester   Semester
                              2004       2005          2006       2006       2007       2008

    Work activities
        20 hours or more      51.9       37.9          35.6       28.6       23.4       15.2
        15-19 hours            6.3       5.0           3.7        4.6        2.4        1.36
        10-14 hours            7.5       8.2           5.9        7.6        5.8        2.77
        1-9 hours              8.0       8.8           8.1        9.0        9.2        8.16
    Education & Training       3.6       5.5           6.2        3.5        4.9        3.9
    None                      22.7       34.6          40.5       46.7       54.4       68.7

    Source: WB staff calculations based on EPH microdata.

Activities to Improve Employability

An important aim of the Project was to increase the number of participants who improved
their employability by completing basic education, participating in training courses,
combining the work requirement with on-the-job training, and participating in
subprojects designed to provide experience and skills for future jobs.

Education and Training. The figures in the table below show the progress on
increasing participation in education and training courses. Progress was impeded by the
insufficient supply of training courses of reasonable quality, the lack of flexibility in the
adult education systems in most provinces, and the lack of counseling of participants
given the incipient stage of employment services in most localities. In spite of these
difficulties some progress was made during the project and the "weight" of participation
in training and education activities did increase.


                                                 30
                    Table A2.2: Participation in Education and Training
Indicators                              December                  December
                                        2007                      2009
Number of HH or Insurance 29,469                                                  60,422
beneficiaries attending professional
training
Number of HH or Insurance 99,345                                                  129,768
beneficiaries attending school
% of Average Total Number            11.4%                                        20%
of HH and Insurance beneficiaries


Payment of Per diems
In addition to the monthly payment to participants, the Project financed per diems for
beneficiaries participating in training and education activities, with the intention of
covering the associated out-of-pocket costs of inputs and transportation. Participants
enrolled in training or education activities could receive up to AR$50 more per month,
for a maximum of 6 to 8 months. The payment of per diems was intended to promote the
participation of beneficiaries in activities designed to improve employability. Although
the availability of these payments probably had some impact on improving participation
rates, utilization was slightly less than expected because of supply side constraints, the
attraction of income-earning opportunities, and the weak enforcement of the work or
training/education requirement. Also, although only the per diems for participants in the
Heads of Household Program and the Training and Employment Insurance were eligible
under the Project, the Ministry of Labor adopted a broader strategy of covering any
unemployed participating in the same activities drawing on domestic resources, reducing
the priority attached to participants in the two Programs.

Work Requirement Combined with Training

One result of this part of the strategy was a partnership with PAMI (Programa de
Asistencia Medica Integral ­ Integrated Medical Assistance Program), the national health
program for the elderly (see box).

                   Box A2.1: Employment in Personal Services ­ Care for the Elderly
The purpose of the agreement with PAMI was to train and obtain jobs for the unemployed in activities
related to the care of adults either in their home or in specialized institutions. In order to implement this
initiative an agreement was signed (Agreement No. 132/2006) between the Ministry of Labor ­ who
financed and organized the training and identified the interested unemployed ­ and the Ministry of Social
Development responsible for the national program of home care workers and the integrated medical
program for the elderly (PAMI) that received the requests for qualified caregivers. The participants in the
training became part of the official registry of home care workers, from which individuals were identified
to meet the needs of the families requesting the services. During 2009, around 900 participants were trained
in home care.



                                                    31
Another result was a special effort related to domestic workers. One, as an incentive for
these workers to become formal (have a legal contract) they were allowed to maintain the
Program benefit for a year. 3500 female program participants became formal during the
life of the project. Two, these women were advised on alternative occupations, material
and training activities were developed, and compensatory strategies implemented to help
promote their participation (related to transport costs, child care, monetary support, and
adjusting the schedule for courses). 4000 women were trained in alternative occupations.

Construction Subprojects

The Ministry of Labor had identified construction as a promising sector to generate jobs.
In order to increase employability, Heads of Household participants interested in
construction jobs would get experience working on small infrastructure projects,
sponsored mostly by municipalities. Participants were to receive on-the-job training
towards certification and access to a basic social insurance package available for
construction workers. In addition to the monthly transfer payment to the participants, the
Project financed the cost of materials for these subprojects. The implementation and
outputs of this activity are discussed below.

The specific objectives of the activity were:

    · Provide training in construction, certifying the competencies acquired through the
      Libreta de Aportes (libreta), occupational certification, and/or a training
      certificate;
    · Promote employment of the beneficiaries taking into account their profile and
      interests and the local labor market, by providing employment services to them
      through Employment Offices or other organizations; and
    · Promote the construction of infrastructure which would have a positive impact in
      the communities.


The Ministry of Labor contracted tutors to train participants simultaneously with their
work on the subproject in order to ensure that the workers obtained sufficient knowledge
in different areas. The Ministry also signed an agreement with UOCRA, the construction
workers union, so that they would train the tutors, provide didactic materials for the on-
the-job training, supervise the training carried out by the tutors, and if requirements were
met, authorize the issuance of the libreta by IERIC. The libreta improves employment
possibilities because potential employers generally ask for it to provide evidence of the
knowledge and experience of the worker in construction. Even without the libreta, it was
thought that the training itself might improve employability.

The activities got off to a slow start. The first sub-projects were not approved until April
2007 (almost a year after Project effectiveness) because of delays in finalizing the
design, and preparation of the operational manual and the necessary regulations.
Municipal elections in late 2006 interrupted the submission of subproject proposals.


                                            32
Some of the adjustments made to a more traditional workfare design included: increasing
the number of possible participants; ensuring adequate time for training; simplifying
evaluation and supervision in order to focus more on training; and promoting typologies
which needed less evaluation but which were assumed to have value for the
communities, for example, rehabilitation of education and health infrastructure. An
attempt was also going to be made to improve the process of beneficiary selection by
making more efforts to publicize this opportunity, including by incorporating, in
localities where they existed, the municipal employment offices to identify interested
participants.

There were minor adjustments during implementation. The Government requested a
higher ceiling on the size of subprojects in order to take into account higher construction
and other costs. The higher ceiling also allowed for financing of the construction of
Integrated Community Centers (CICs), a program initiative promoted by the Ministry of
Social Development, which had been included in the previous project. In these
subprojects, the temporary workers (including participants of the Heads of Household
Program) had to be organized in cooperatives. Construction or rehabilitation of facilities
for employment offices was also added to the list of eligible typologies. As shown in
Table A2.3, by the end of the Project, 1.408 subprojects were approved in which 11.023
beneficiaries participated.

Some difficulties were experienced during implementation. Municipalities had problems
accommodating their proposals to the design. As a result, about 40 percent of subprojects
were not approved until the last 4 months of 2008, before the December cut-off which
had been agreed between the Ministry and the Bank. This contributed to problems in the
execution of subprojects. As of December 2009, only a third of the approved subprojects
had been finalized, 16 percent were subsequently dropped, and 8.5 percent never started.
A large number of subprojects (750) are still being executed. The distribution of
proposals and approvals was unbalanced. Four provinces accounted for 80 percent of
expenditures, although they only accounted for 20 percent of beneficiaries in the
Program. The province of Tucuman alone accounted for 40 percent of expenditures,
even though only 3 percent of beneficiaries resided there.

Ensuring the participation of the beneficiaries of the Heads of Household Program
continued to be problematic. In practice, employment offices played a minor role in
identifying the appropriate participants. Supervision by the Ministry continued to focus
more on the progress on construction, instead of the training activities.




                                           33
               Table A2.3: Workfare projects by type (December 2009)

                                  Number
                                              Share                      Amount
        Types of projects            of                 Beneficiaries
                                               %                          (USd)
                                  Projects
     Educational Infrastructure     462       32.8          3429           7.9
       Health Infrastructure         75        5.3           300           1.1
        Sanitary and Water          146       10.4          1572
           Infrastructure                                                  3.1
        Social and Cultural         410       29.1          2587
           Infrastructure                                                  7.6
   Productive and Developmental
           Infrastructure           49            3.5       221            0.7
   Improvement of neighborhood
             conditions             72            5.1       486            1.2

   Integrated Community Centers    175        12.4         2154            10.6
        Employment Offices          19         1.3          274             0.4
               Total               1408       100          11023           32.6



An ex post review of a sample of projects carried out in August 2009 found that:

   ·   Municipalities were more interested in completing the infrastructure than in the
       participation of the beneficiaries.
   ·   Possession of the Libreta de Aportes (Unemployment Insurance Notebook)
       increased employment possibilities.
   ·   In spite of the recognition of the importance of the libreta to improve
       employability, the participation of Heads of Household beneficiaries was low and
       the works ended up being built by other workers who were not beneficiaries of
       employment programs. In addition, there were some participants who were not
       interested in future work in construction.

   ·   Because of delays, relatively few projects had been completed, but those that were
       demonstrated good quality, were in use, and appeared to generate adequate public
       benefits.

Based on the data available at the end of 2009, training results fell well short of
expectations. For about 80 percent of the sample subprojects in the ex-post evaluation,
training results were rated low for a variety of reasons. The tutoring had taken place, but
construction had been delayed, so participants had gotten little practical experience.
Participation of beneficiaries was low, while many who did the actual work, already had
sufficient experience. For some projects, the final visit of UOCRA ­ necessary in order
to receive the libreta ­ had not taken place. As of December 2009, 1060 libretas had
been delivered. While this represented around 60 percent of the participants who worked
in projects which had been finalized, it was only 10 percent of total participants. This



                                             34
figure was likely to increase since delivery of a substantial number of libretas (830) was
in process.


                   Table A2.4: Training Indicators ­ December 2009
Tutors contracted                                   636
Projects with a tutor assigned                     1079
Libretas de Aportes delivered                      1060
Libretas de Aportes in process                      830
Certificates delivered                             1118
Trained participants, without libreta               730
Trained participants, without final visit of UOCRA 790


In sum, implementation turned out to be very challenging and required more intense and
pro-active management. The challenges included:

    9 Coordination between training and construction activities.
It proved difficult to coordinate many different agencies and actors. The Ministry of
Labor was responsible for transferring funds to municipalities. Municipalities had to
ensure the availability of the other inputs needed to execute the works. The tutors,
supervised and supported by UOCRA, were responsible for the training which needed to
coincide with progress on construction. Finally UOCRA was responsible for the final
assessment and requesting the libreta for selected workers. The correct scheduling of
these activities was critical.

    9 Balancing the importance of training with the construction activity.
The incentives of the different actors must be aligned. The implementing organizations
(municipalities) were more interested in the works and the financing of the materials and
neglected the training and/or hired qualified staff to advance more quickly and finish the
infrastructure.

   9 Conditions of the labor market.
The recovery in the construction sector which offered employment opportunities for
many, including those with low qualifications, made it more difficult to attract
beneficiaries interested in participating in this activity.

One positive experience in which a province decided on a sector focus is described in
Box A2.2.




                                           35
 Box A2.2: Chaco ­ The Experience of the Provincial Water Supply and Maintenance
                Company (SAMEEP) in Construction Subprojects

The provincial government of Chaco decided to focus on water and sanitation where expansion of coverage
was a priority with the potential to generate employment. The Ministry agreed to finance these subprojects,
although the typology was not originally included in the eligible list. SAMEEP designed a strategy that
facilitated the achievement of the twin objectives of infrastructure investment and training of Program
participants, as well as the efficient use of available resources. Project resources were used to train and
certify the competencies for those installing the water or sewerage services and their assistants. SAMEEP
entered into an agreement with two provincial technical schools that designed the training and certified
competencies. Practical on-the-job experience was obtained by extending the water and sewerage network
into low-income neighborhoods. Because of the financing received from the loan, it was possible to
subsidize these connections. The individuals who participated were added to a registry of potential new
hires for the company. The extension of the network was expected to require more trained workers,
especially for domestic connections and maintenance. About 3000 people participated of which 800 were
contracted by the state enterprise for a year with a high probability of continuing their employment.
Another 750 participants organized themselves into 53 cooperatives.

Component B: Heads of Household Productive Subprojects

The Project provided support to small groups of beneficiaries of the Heads of Household
Program to finance the cost of tools, equipment and inputs for productive activities and to
provide technical assistance to beneficiaries. The table provides information on the types
of activities. About 82 percent of the subprojects were concentrated in the categories of
services/commerce, production of goods (not related to food), agriculture/fishing and
agro-industry. About 69 percent of participants were women.

                 Table A2.5 Productive Projects by type (December 2009)
                                   Number
                                                                                         Amount
                                   of           Share %             Beneficiaries
Types of Projects                                                                        (US$m)
                                   Projects
Agro-industry                      603          11.4                1531                 2.07
Agriculture/fishing                989          18.6                2381                 3.44
Non-food related production
of goods                           1373         25.9                3467                 4.57
Production of construction
goods                              443          8.4                 1041                 1.49
Production      of   industrial    19           0.4                 53
inputs                                                                                   0.07
Services and commerce              1410         26.6                3296                 4.74
Personal services                  172          3.2                 390                  0.54
Rural      and     agricultural    40           0.8                 93
services                                                                                 0.13
Construction or building
maintenance services               141          2.7                 320                  0.46
Machinery       or   appliance
repair services                    114          2.1                 274                  0.38


                                                    36
Total                              5304          100                12846                 17.9

An ex-post review of a sample (150) of productive subprojects (Cirstina Cogliati 2008)
rated them on sustainability, taking into account the adequacy of the infrastructure and
equipment, trends on production and sales, workers' income, and the quality of
management19. Slightly over 80 percent of the subprojects were in operation. Among
those in operation, 44 percent were ranked high, 17 percent were ranked medium, 15
percent were ranked low, and the remaining quarter were judged to be unsustainable.
Those enterprises ranked as high had proactive participants, leadership and growth
strategies. They set goals, consistently reinvested, identified market niches, and
innovated. They had high quality products and services, combined with good marketing
strategies and publicity. Taken together the subprojects ranked as either high or medium
on sustainability represented two/thirds of those still in operation or about half of the total
sample. The main problems identified were that the beneficiaries were not competent in
the selected activity, had low working capital or problems with market access (low social
capital, insufficient resources for transportation, and operating in the weak part of the
value chain, in particular for textiles). The initial association of workers had been
maintained in about 60 percent of the subprojects albeit with adjustments in some.
Family businesses or groups with previous work relationships or strong ties of friendship
were more likely to have maintained the association.

The ex-post evaluation reviewed the type of employment obtained by the enterprises.
Employment security for the participants depended primarily on the sustainability and
consolidation of the enterprise and secondarily on its formalization. All enterprises
ranked as highly sustainable generated stable employment for the participants. For about
a third of the sample, the participants earned more than the minimum wage; only a few
participants in active enterprises were earning less than the transfer from the Heads of
Household Program. Many participants saw advantages in self-employment.

Other findings included the following:

     ·   The idea of working in a group is valued positively if it is voluntary and not
         artificially forced because it is a requirement for financing.

     ·   Having previous experience in the activity is fundamental to sustain the
         subproject. Neither technical assistance, nor the advice of the municipality is
         sufficient to develop these competencies for the participants. Workers do develop
         competencies by participating in the subprojects.

     ·   Commercialization is the main difficulty confronted by subprojects.


19
  If enterprises had high rankings on all aspects they were ranked as high. Enterprises ranked as medium
had less income, but were stable with potential to consolidate their positions. Enterprises ranked low faced
various (or combined) difficulties. For some it was only a side activity to generate complementary income,
for others there were problems with commercialization, and others lacked working capital. Those ranked
as unsustainable had very low income, high informality and vulnerability. Bad facilities were a factor as
well as the breakup of the association.


                                                    37
   ·   In most cases, the Municipality was able to assist the formulation of subprojects
       and to provide support once they were up and running. In large municipalities
       there was often a separate administrative unit providing support to the self-
       employed, but even in those cases, and more so for smaller municipalities, the
       capacity was not sufficient to cover all the subprojects. Experience showed that it
       was easier for enterprises to be successful in smaller municipalities.

   ·   Beneficiaries should be provided technical assistance for equipment purchases.

On the sustainability of subprojects, the main findings were as follows:

   ·   In all types of activities, there were examples of subprojects in which
       beneficiaries had substantial monthly incomes (i.e. higher than ARG$773).
       Nevertheless, in general low income earners (ARG$128) were concentrated in the
       activity `elaboration of manufactures'.
   ·   The services category had the highest proportion of subprojects with stable or
       increasing sales.
   ·   Subprojects with male participants generally achieved higher incomes and
       sustainability than ones with women. Formalization seemed to be harder to
       achieve for female participants.
   ·   Commerce had the highest concentration of subprojects whose sustainability was
       ranked "high".
   ·   The ranking on management indicators was related to the performance of the
       subproject and the extent of market entry. Subprojects which generated higher
       incomes for the participants also had adequate registries and sufficient funds to
       reinvest in the activity.
   ·   Projects ranked as more sustainable were more likely to `formalize', partly
       because they had the necessary resources to comply with the requirements.
       About half of the active enterprises were inscribed in either the Registro de
       Efectores or alternative tax arrangement. Often only one employee in the group
       registered, so that the enterprise could issue receipts.


As part of a strategy to promote participation in the formal economy by disadvantaged
groups, the Government created the National Register of Participants in Local
Development and the Social Economy (Decree 189/2004). All beneficiaries who
received financing to carry out a productive project under this component were
encouraged to register. Initially, the Registry experienced some implementation
problems. Not enough information was available, neither on the benefits nor on
inscription procedures. Part of the problem was a lack of easy access at the local level.
As a result, it took between 6-8 months to register. Also, it was difficult for the Ministry
of Labor to access up-to-date information on inscriptions, since the Ministry of Social
Development was responsible for the registry.

The ex-post evaluation made same recommendations on how the Ministry of Labor could
improve its support to self-employment. The principal goal of this activity should be to


                                            38
generate decent and quality employment, in practical terms earning a salary above the
minimum wage with social security. Working capital requirements need to be considered
more in subproject formulation and the financing plan. Participants and municipalities
need to have more information on the activity. More training should be provided up
front, when the subproject proposal is prepared. Municipalities should receive advice on
the ways they can provide support. The provision of technical assistance to the
participants is key, but had been challenging to implement. More attention needs to be
paid to the skill level of the tutors and their training needs. Tutors also should interact
more with Ministry staff. A system of supervision and monitoring of subprojects should
be developed, separate from the provision of technical assistance. This system should
collect general information about advances in the subprojects, as well as indicators of
sustainability and employment quality, supplemented with periodic ex-post evaluations
on a sample basis.

Component C: Activities to Promote the Employability of Participants in the
Training and Employment Insurance Program

On March 26, 2006, the Government announced further measures in the transition
strategy through the creation of the non-contributory Training and Employment
Insurance. It was introduced to assist the beneficiaries of the Heads of Household
Program to reenter the labor market in better conditions. It is administered by the
Ministry of Labor through the municipal employment offices and combines a cash benefit
with training, job search assistance, and job placement services. In order to participate in
the Training and Employment Insurance municipal employment offices have to guarantee
several basic services for the Insurance beneficiaries: the collection of information on
work experience, supervise their job search, offer short workshops on job search or labor
orientation and/or referrals to other available activities (job placement, support for self-
employment, training, completion of basic education, or placement in temporary work).

Following an interview to collect information on previous work experience, education
and training, participants register and sign an agreement to join the program in which
they commit to:


   ·   Regular contact with the employment office

   ·   Accept job offers received through the employment office;

   ·   Participate in interviews and job placement workshops;

   ·   Join training activities; and

   ·   Exit the Heads of Household Program.

Participants are dropped from the Program if they find a formal job, after the expiration
of the two year time limit, if they reject job offers without justification, or if they fail to
comply with the conditions of their agreement. The Program provides beneficiaries with




                                              39
a monthly benefit for up to two years, ranging from AR$200-275 (close to 20 percent of
the minimum wage), as well as accrual of benefits in the pension system.

By the end of 2009, approximately 125,600 workers had participated in the Insurance.
Nearly 69 percent of participants are women (compared with 72.6 percent in the Heads of
Household Program). Insurance participants are slightly older and more educated than
Heads of Household Program beneficiaries. The activities with the greater concentration
of beneficiaries from the beginning of the Training and Employment Insurance to date
are: professional training (27.9 percent), primary and secondary education (26.4 percent);
and labor insertion in individual or associative productive projects (25.3 percent). Other
activities with smaller weight but highly significant in terms of formal labor insertion are:
19.6 percent participated in employment subsidy programs in the public or private sector
and 17.7 percent in subsidized on- the- job training.

Component D: Employment Services

The Project supported the establishment of a network of municipal employment offices.
Given the resources and implementation period of the Project, the Ministry of Labor was
expected to install capacity and ensure minimum employment services in at least 100
municipal employment offices. The municipal employment offices are responsible for
interviewing job seekers, with priority for Heads of Household beneficiaries, but services
are open to all unemployed and individuals interested in improving their employment
status. After collecting information on work experience, individuals are referred to
activities including: job placement, supervised job search, short workshops on job search
or labor orientation, support for self-employment, training, completion of basic
education, or placement in temporary work. The results of this component exceeded
expectations. By December 2007, 168 offices had been established, and by December
2009, there were 310 offices. A summary of the findings of a survey of employment
offices carried out in late 2009-2010 is in Annex 8.

Component E: Governance Improvements and Monitoring and Evaluation

The results of the main activities are summarized below, except for monitoring and
evaluation covered in Section 2.3 of the main text.

Expanded Continuous Audit. It was expected that the monthly continuous audit carried
out under the previous Heads of Household Project with good results would continue.
That audit had focused on the monthly process of paying beneficiaries. The terms of
reference of the continuous audit under this Project was expanded to include spot checks
of municipal management of the Program, particularly for workfare activities and
construction and productive subprojects. The problems with the concurrent audit are
described in Section 2.4. The reports from the concurrent audits included spot checks of
the consistency of information on beneficiary compliance with the workfare
requirements, the subcomponent of productive projects (delays in the purchase of inputs
and equipment by municipalities), payments through debit cards, consistency of
information on the activities of the participants in the Training and Employment



                                             40
Insurance, and construction subprojects (delays in start-up, problems with availability of
inputs and the lack of registry and evidence of the participation of the beneficiaries in the
training activities).

Improvements in the Heads of Household Beneficiary Registry. Achievements were
good on improvements in the quality and completeness of the data in the registry.
Specific activities included:

   ·   The Ministry of Labor continued to carry out its monthly standard database cross-
       checks against registries of formal employees and recipients of other social
       transfers.

   ·   The National System of Tax and Social Identification carried out monthly cross-
       checks of the Beneficiary Registry with other data bases, as well as cross-checked
       those participants included in the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) submitted to
       the Bank. In the case of the former exercise, monthly reports with observations
       were sent to the Ministry which took the necessary remedial actions. No
       significant observations were made on the cross-checks of the beneficiary lists in
       the SOEs.

   ·   Additional databases included a cross-check against beneficiaries (and their
       family members) in the contributory health insurance plans.

   ·   The Ministry of Labor also cleaned up the database by identifying possible
       irregularities through internal consistency checks within the registry. In addition,
       beneficiaries were dropped from the registry based on information from the
       Commission on Allegations as well as supervision of municipalities and sub-
       projects by Ministry of Labor staff.
Information and Communication. The PAD highlighted the importance of facilitating
good communications with other stakeholders, particularly in the context of the new
activities associated with the transition strategy and to ensure transparency. The results
are seen in the communications strategy for the Employment and Training Insurance.
There were publicity campaigns in the national and local press in order to inform Heads
of Household participants. Neighborhood meetings and personal mailings were used to
provide information about the new program. The advance work and cooperation with the
municipality was more intensive than was the case for the Heads of Household Program.
In addition, the respective roles and responsibilities of the municipality and the Ministry
of Labor are more clearly defined. Municipalities have the obligation to disseminate the
Training and Employment Insurance, to register those who decide to participate in the
insurance, and through the Employment Offices, link them with formal education and
training opportunities.

Stakeholder Activities. Many civil society organizations believed that there had been
insufficient consultations with stakeholders in the early stages of the Heads of Household
Program. Under the Project, the Ministry of Labor in coordination with the National
Consultative Council of the Program, carried out 3 workshops in order to consult and


                                             41
provide information to non-governmental organizations, unions, business groups, private
companies, professional training centers, among others. The activities were designed
mainly to discuss the proposed Heads of Household Transition Strategy and to consult
with civil society and government interlocutors involved in local social and employment
policies. The participation of key staff of the Ministries of Labor and Social
Development, and the National Consultative Council and local actors was effective

This component also supported activities in the Ministry of Labor which aimed to help
small and medium-sized businesses to meet labor and social security regulations in order
to improve their compliance. The Ministry also worked with the tax authorities to
simplify the registration of workers and to update regulations on home-based work. After
a review of the functioning of a simplified system for registering workers and the
associated database, several cross-checks of information were made automatic,
incorporating the registry of formal workers as well as the results of workplace
inspections. Firms can register their workers on line using the system called "Mi
Simplificacion" and workers can verify their and their employer's social security
contributions. The Directorate of Labor Regulations completed a set of proposals to
regulate domestic and home-based work, presented and discussed them with the
authorities of the Ministry and other interested actors. Both proposals were important
inputs for proposed legislation recently sent to the Congress.




                                          42
                              Table A2.6: Monitoring Indicators
    Indicators                                              December 2009 Values
                                                   Beneficiaries
1   Number of beneficiaries                                                 353,888
2   Percentage of exits:
        -    to formal employment                                             33.7
        -    for ineligibility and other reasons                              38.1
        -    transfers to Plan Familia                                        22.0
        -    transfers to Seguro                                               6.2

3   Targeting efficiency indicators:                                     EPH 1st S 2009
         - beneficiaries w/o formal employment                               99%
         - beneficiaries with dependents                                     92%
         - share of benefits going to bottom 50 percent
              of income distribution                                         94.2%
                                        Budget/Process Indicators
1   Number of supervision visits to training and basic                       6,330
    education courses
2   Percentage of formal complaints for:
         - Ineligible beneficiaries                                           95.6
         - Extortion                                                           2.7
         - Irregular payment                                                   0.2
         - Others                                                              1.5
                                          Employment Services
1   Number of employment offices (EO)                                         310
    Staffing                                                                 2,100
2   Number of HH beneficiaries interviews (labor history)                   381,125
    Number of HH beneficiaries who attended labor                           95,499
    orientation course;
                                         Training and Education
1   Number of HH beneficiaries attending professional                        60,422
    training
2   Percentage of HH beneficiaries who attended                              19.4%
    professional training employed
3   Number of HH beneficiaries attending school                             129,768
4   Number of HH beneficiaries students with completed                       5,943
    primary or secondary education
                                  Subprojects for Temporary Employment
1   Number of community infrastructure projects (with                        1,408
    financing of materials)
2   Number of HH beneficiaries in community                                  11,023



                                                      43
        infrastructure sub-projects
3       Number of HH beneficiaries registered in National                      3,369
        Register of Participants in Local Development and the
        Social Economy
4       Number of productive projects with materials delivered                 5,304




                        Table A2.7: Monthly Indicators Report (July 2007)
Indicator                                  Baseline (period)           Most Recent Data Available

                                           December 04                         July 07

1. Program enrollment                      1,587,261                           890.943

                                         Jul 03/Dec 04                       Jan 05/ June 07
2. Reduction of beneficiaries
   Total                                 388,325 (100%)                      670,439 (100%)
   o/w due to
   -     better controls/ gov                  58%                                     38.7%
   -     employment                            42%                                     30.7%
   -     transfer Familias prog.                0%                                     25.0%
   -      transfer Seguro prog.                  0%                                     5.6%

                                         Jun 03/Dec 04                       Jan 05/June 07
3.      Number of formal
     complaints, total                   13,356 (100%)                       14,982 (100%)
     o/w allegation of
     - ineligible beneficiaries                87%                              95.3%
     - extortion                                6%                               2.4%
     - irregular payment                        2%                               0.5%
     - others                                   5%                               1.9%

                                         Jun 03/Dec 04                       Jan 05/June 07
4.     Solution    of    formal
     complaints                          4,883 beneficiaries dropped         13,941 beneficiaries dropped

                                           July-December 04                    July-December 06
5. Compliance with work
  requirement
  Total                                    61.8%                               40.1%
  - Work                                   58.2%                               33.2%
  - Education                               2.3%                                3.2%
  - Training                                1.3%                                3.7%

6. Targeting Efficiency                    July-December 04                    July ­ December 06

     - beneficiaries w/o formal            99%                                 99%
       employment
     - beneficiaries         w/            90%                                 92%



                                                      44
          dependents
        - share of benefits going to                     86.4%                                                91.3 %
          bottom 50% of income
          distribution

     7. Results of Bank staff spot            May 05.                                                         October/November 06*
       checks on quality of
       Ministry      of    Labor              93%                                                             46.2%
       administrative data on
       extent of compliance with
       workfare requirement

Source: Permanent Household Survey, Administrative Data of the Ministry of Labor and World Bank staff estimates.
*           The project team conducted visits to municipalities, in May 05, two among the urban areas surrounding Buenos Aires, as well as
           1 each in Rosario and Tucumán; and in August 06, 1 each in La Rioja and Catamarca, as well as 1 in the urban area surrounding
           Buenos Aires. The focus of these visits was to check the quality of the administrative data of the Ministry of Labor.



     Explanatory Notes for Monitoring Indicators

           1.   Number of people receiving the Heads of Household Program monthly transfer payment. Source:
                administrative data of the Ministry of Labor available on website: www.trabajo.gov.ar
           2.   Number of people dropped from the Heads of Household Program with distribution by reason.
                Better controls/governance includes several mechanisms used by the Program to identify and drop
                beneficiaries who no longer meet the eligibility requirements, including cross-checks with other
                data bases and dropping those whose children exceed the age limits. Employment includes those
                who leave the program because they have secured registered employment. Familias is the
                program managed by the Ministry of Social Development which enrolls families with young
                children who then receive a transfer in exchange for a commitment to ensure that their children
                participate in stipulated education and health activities. The transfer of those Heads of Household
                Beneficiaries eligible for the Familias program is part of the transition strategy. The Seguro refers
                to the non-contributory Training and Employment Insurance managed by the Ministry of Labor.
                Heads of Household participants can voluntarily opt for this program which has a time limit for
                any individual of 2 years. Source: administrative data of the Ministry of Labor
           3.   Number of complaints received by the Ministry of Labor (through 0800 line, follow-up of press
                reports, written communications and referrals from the National Social Security Administration ­
                Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, ANSES)20 relating to the Heads of Household
                Program and classification by type. Allegations of "ineligible beneficiaries" refer to denunciations
                of people that receive the transfer but are not eligible (e.g. they do not have children, they have a
                business, their spouses have a job, etc). Allegations of "extortion" refer to requests to
                beneficiaries for a share of the Program payment. Source: administrative data of the Ministry of
                Labor.
           4.   Number of people dropped from the Heads of Household Program as result of complaints
                received. Source: administrative data of the Ministry of Labor.
           5.   Percentage of beneficiaries who comply with the requirement of the Heads of Household Program
                to participate in eligible activities, mostly working in various types of community services
                (working in schools, soup kitchens, health centers, etc.), but also in training or education, for a
                minimum of 15 hours a week. The chart also shows the distribution by type of activity. Sources:
                Quarterly Permanent Household Survey and administrative data of the Ministry of Labor.
           6.   Data on extent of compliance among participants of the Heads of Household Program with some
                eligibility requirements of Program (be unemployed, have dependents below 18) and the
                performance of the Program in targeting lower-income groups. Formal employees are those with
                contributions to social security. Source: Quarterly Permanent Household Survey




                                                                     45
7.   Periodic visits to municipalities, conducted by Bank staff to carry out spot checks of the quality of
     the administrative data of the Ministry of Labor provided to the World Bank on which
     beneficiaries are complying with the requirement of the Program to participate in eligible
     activities (community services, training, or education). The indicator is the extent of
     coincidence between the administrative data and the Source: World Bank staff reports.




                                                 46
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic and financial analysis takes into account the fact that with the continued
decline in compliance with the work or education/training requirement, the Heads of
Household Program became less and less a classic workfare program. Thus the cost
effectiveness framework for a workfare program is no longer relevant. The efficiency of
the Project is assessed positively based on the following:

Targeting Performance. At Project appraisal there was rigorous evidence that overall
the Heads of Household Program was successful in reaching the poor and mitigating the
impact of the social and economic crisis21. During project implementation, targeting
performance ­ a key results indicator ­ continued to improve. The share of participants
in the lower half of the income distribution rose from 88 percent to 92 percent (2007) and
then to 94 percent (2009).

Poverty Impact. Based on household survey data, the evidence is that poverty indicators
and inequality would have been higher without the Heads of Household transfers. The
share of population in extreme poverty would have been 8.9 percent instead of 7.8
percent, while poverty would have been 25.8 percent instead of 25 percent. The Gini
index would have been .482 instead of .477.

Sustainability of Selected Subprojects. The sustainability of subprojects supported by
the Project was satisfactory. The ex-post review for the construction subprojects (under
Component A) indicated that out of the sample visited, two/thirds had either medium or
high quality. The conclusion was that most of the works were pertinent and had
improved community conditions. An ex-post review of productive subprojects
(Component B) found that 80 percent of the sample was still in operation. Taken
together, the subprojects ranked as either high or medium on sustainability represented
two/thirds of those still in operation or about half of the total sample.

Value of Transfer. A major concern raised in the economic analysis in the PAD was
that there was little room to increase the level of the transfer, particularly given the goals
of the transition strategy. Government did not raise the transfer level during Project
implementation, thereby promoting the exit of participants to employment.

Fiscal Analysis

Government spending on the Heads of Household Program declined from 1 percent of
GDP in 2003 to 0.2 percent of GDP in 2007, and continued falling in 2009 to 0.11
percent. During the crisis, transfers associated with the Program relieved pressure on the
budgets of both provincial and municipal Governments and modified the structure and


21
  Social Protection in a Crisis: Argentina's Plan Jefes y Jefas, by Emanuela Galasso and Martin Ravallion,
World Bank Economic Review, Volume 18, 2004, #3, p. 367-399 and Note: An Update on the Impact of
the Programa Jefes y Jefas, November 2004 by Emanuela Galasso (processed).



                                                   47
distribution of financial transfers from the national Government. In 2003 the transfers
associated with payments to the Program participants accounted for about a fifth of the
total transfers from the national Government to the provinces. With the reduction in the
size of the Program, this share dropped to 14.6 percent in 2007 and to 9.6 percent in
2008.




                                          48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
Names                         Title                              Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Maria Lucy Giraldo            Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT    Procurement
                                                                 LCSHS-
Theresa Jones                 Lead Operations Officer                     Task Manager
                                                                 DPT
Luz Meza-Bartrna              Senior Counsel                              Legal
                                                                 LCSHS-
Marcela Ines Salvador         Consultant                                  Social Protection
                                                                 DPT
                                                                 LCSHS-
Maria Claudia Vasquez Alvarez Consultant                                  Civil Engineer
                                                                 DPT
Supervision/ICR
                                                           LCSHS-
Jorge C. Barrientos           Consultant                          Operations
                                                           DPT
                                                           LCSHS-
Gaston Mariano Blanco       Social Protection Specialist          Social Protection
                                                           DPT
                                                                  Financial
Daniel Chalupowicz          Financial Management Analyst   LCSFM
                                                                  Management
Regis Thomas Cunningham Sr Financial Management Specialist LCSFM "
Ana Maria Grofsmacht        Procurement Analyst            LCSPT Procurement
Febe Mackey                 Consultant                     HDNSP Assistant
                                                                  Financial
Luz Maria Meyer             Junior Professional Associate  LCSFM
                                                                  Management
Marta     Elena    Molares-
                            Lead Counsel                   LEGLA Legal
Halberg
                                                           LCSHS- Employment
Demetra Nightingale         Consultant
                                                           DPT    Services
                                                           LCSHS-
Marcela Ines Salvador       Consultant                            Social Protection
                                                           DPT
Maria    Claudia    Vasquez                                LCSHS-
                            Consultant                            Civil Engineer
Alvarez                                                    DPT


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                        9.14
  FY00                                               2                        3.93
  FY01                                              16                       62.00
  FY02                                              11                       52.71



                                               49
  FY03                        1.96
  FY04                  3    29.54
  FY05                 59   265.27
  FY06                 33   128.28
  FY07                        0.00
  FY08                        0.00
Total:             124      552.83
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                        0.00
  FY00                        0.00
  FY01                        0.00
  FY02                        0.00
  FY03                        0.00
  FY04                        0.00
  FY05                        0.00
  FY06                  4    41.81
  FY07                 15   103.71
  FY08                 21   145.65
  FY09                 12     0.00
Total:                 52   291.17




                  50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1. The National Opinion Survey, the Encuesta de Percepción de Planes Sociales
(EPPS), was conducted between mid-June and mid-August, 2007.22 It was undertaken by
a joint team of Equipos MORI Argentina and the Centros de Estudios Distributivos y
Laborales de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata (CEDLAS). The survey included a
sample of 2,500 households and was designed to be representative at the national and
regional levels. Either the head of the household or spouse was interviewed, depending
on their availability.
2. The survey included a module of questions that was applied to a sub-sample of 600
potential beneficiaries of social programs, to deepen the analysis among the target
population. Selection of interviewees into the over-sample was based on self-reported
income. The survey questionnaire included a sub-module for the over-sample which
included specific questions relevant to the beneficiary population on adequacy of benefit
amounts, contraprestaciones, the duration of programs, and views regarding training and
labor market insertion as possible components of program design.

Familiarity and Experience with Programs


3. Jefes is widely known among the population, while newer programs are less
recognized. When asked to name social programs in the EPPS, 93 percent of those
interviewed mentioned Jefes (Figure A5.1).23 A large share of the population (61 percent)
also mentioned Trabajar, the predecessor to Jefes which was discontinued in 2001,
suggesting recognition of the plans, but less familiarity with recent developments. These
findings illustrate the widespread familiarity with the emergency programs ­ especially
Jefes­ because of the high level of coverage within the population, as well as the
significant media attention to the program.
4. On the other hand, newer programs, particularly Seguro de Capacitación y Empleo
and Familias, were much less recognized. Only two percent of interviewees mentioned
Seguro spontaneously. When prompted with a list of programs and asked which were
familiar, the number of respondents indicating familiarity increased to 42 percent.
Similarly with Familias, only 4 percent mentioned the program unprompted, while 55
percent recognized it from a list. These findings are not surprising, given that the
programs are not yet fully implemented across the country.




22
     The findings from the EPPS are synthesized in Cruces, Rovner and Schijman, 2008.

23
  Spontaneous response plus guided (interviewee was asked to select programs from a list); 62 percent
mentioned Jefes spontaneously.



                                                    51
Figure A5.1. Familiarity with Social Programs (spontaneous and guided responses)




  Source: Calculations based on EPPS (CEDLAS-MORI-BM, 2007). Base: total sample.
5. Beyond basic name recognition, the survey also asked respondents about their
knowledge of the eligibility criteria for participation in the programs. The findings
indicated a relatively broad knowledge of basic characteristics of eligibility, 54 percent of
interviewees recognized that unemployment was a criteria for receiving the program, 40
percent identified poverty and 36 percent identified having children in the household as
necessary. In addition to the eligibility criteria, 87 percent recognized that
contraprestaciones were a requirement for receiving benefits.
6. A significant share of the population has had direct experience with social programs,
again reflecting the high coverage of Jefes. In the EPPS, 20 percent of heads of
households interviewed indicated that either they themselves, or a household member,
had received a benefit during the last five years (2002-2007). This level of coverage is
reflective of the peak level of coverage reached by Jefes in 2003. Of this 20 percent, 82
percent reported a monthly income below AR$1,249 ­ the level of median total family
income at the time of the survey. On the other hand, 12 percent of respondents indicated
that during the last five years, a family member had applied for a program but did not
receive a benefit.




                                              52
                Figure A5.2. Interaction with Social Programs (2002-07)




Source: Calculations based on EPPS (CEDLAS-MORI-BM, 2007). Base: total sample.

Views about Programs
7. The survey indicated that the population generally supports the social programs, but
also signaled concerns about their implementation. When asked whether to "leave the
programs as they are" or "eliminate them without replacing them," half of respondents
opted to leave the programs as they are, and 28 percent would opt to eliminate them. The
remainder chose neither, or did not respond. This suggests that there is a large share of
the population that finds value in the programs, despite concerns about implementation
(discussed further below), while at the same time, a significant group feels strongly
enough to suggest that the programs should be eliminated entirely.
8. As would be expected, beneficiaries were more enthusiastic about keeping the
programs unchanged (71 percent), while the share who would opt to eliminate them was
substantially higher (44 percent) among those who did not receive benefits. Approval of
the programs appears to decline with age. Among those between 18 and 35 years old, 19
percent would eliminate programs, while this increased to 27 percent for those between
36 and 55 years old, and 34 percent for respondents older than 55.




                                               53
     Figure A5.3. Overall Views on Existing Social Programs (leave or replace them)

                                                            Doesn't
                                                           know, 6%
                                         None, 16%
                                                                        Eliminate
                                                                        the plans
                                                                        and don't
                                                                         replace
                                                                       them, 28%




                                   Leave the
                                    plans as
                                    they are
                                   now, 50%


             Source: Calculations based on EPPS (CEDLAS-MORI-BM, 2007). Base: total sample.
9. The survey illustrated an overall view that the social programs play an important
policy role and have an effect on economic and social issues in the country. A majority
(61 percent) agreed that "programs are always needed because there are people who need
them," while 28 percent agreed that "programs are only needed during economic crises."
Support for permanent programs, rather than temporary during crises only was strongest
among people in the poorest regions, young people, and those with beneficiaries living in
the household. Similarly, 41 percent believe that poverty would be worse in Argentina
without the programs, 38 percent think that unemployment would be worse, and 37
percent think that inequality would be negatively affected.24
10. The survey results suggest deep concerns about the design and implementation of the
programs. A large majority (58 percent) of respondents either disagreed, or disagreed
strongly that the programs should continue as they are, while only 21 percent agreed that
the programs are fine without changes. The main concerns with the programs indicated in
the survey were issues with access, low benefit levels, and lack of information about
eligibility.




24
     Poverty, unemployment and inequality were separate (not mutually exclusive) choices in the question.



                                                      54
 Figure A5.4. General Evaluation of Programs (agreement with the statement: "the
               programs work well and should be left as they are")




Source: Calculations based on EPPS (CEDLAS-MORI-BM, 2007). Base: total sample.


Perceptions of Beneficiaries
11. Within the EPPS sample 17 percent of respondents, or their spouses, reported
receiving some type of a social benefit between 2002 and 2007. Programs received
included: a mix of national programs including Jefes (60 percent), Familias (24 percent),
and Seguro de Capacitación y Empleo, as well as one of a range of provincial level
programs.25
12. In terms of the overall evaluation of the programs, 35 percent of beneficiaries
reported that they believed that their quality of life had improved from participating in the
program, and 26 percent maintained that their potential to get a job had improved. The
majority reported that both their quality of life and employment prospects had stayed the
same regardless of receiving the benefit (57 and 66 percent respectively). These results
may not necessarily represent a negative assessment, if interviewees did not include the
counterfactual in their assessment. In other words, in the absence of the benefit their
quality of life and employment prospects might have worsened further.
13. Of those respondents (or their spouses) who reported having received a benefit during
the reference period, 66 percent were continuing to receive benefits at the time of the
survey. For those who were no longer receiving benefits, the main reason cited for going
off benefits was getting a job (36 percent) (Figure A5.5). Other reasons for discontinuing
participation were that the program ended (8 percent); retirement (7 percent) or failure to
meet the eligibility criteria of the program (6 percent).
14. The survey also reflected the government's strategy of shifting Jefes beneficiaries to
the new programs. One-quarter of the interviewees who reported receiving a benefit
25
  Provincial programs mentioned included: Plan Bonarense, Fondo de Desempleo, Plan Vida, Vale lo
Nuestro, and Plan Primer Paso y Plan Medicamentos.



                                               55
noted that they had transferred from Jefes to another program. For the majority of cases,
this transition was one year or less from the time of the survey. The main reason cited for
switching programs was that the new program offered a higher benefit level.
                  Figure A5.5. Reasons for Exiting Benefit Programs




Source: Calculations based on EPPS (CEDLAS-MORI-BM, 2007). Base: Respondents who had received
(or whose spouse received) a benefit in the past.

Program Design

15. There is nearly unanimous consensus in Argentina for the need for
contraprestaciones, or some form of conditionality to be included in the design of social
programs. Contraprestaciones refer to the requirement for participation in work activities
(including community services or attendance at education or training courses) for a
specific number of hours a week. Popular awareness is high because of the incorporation
of contraprestaciones into the Jefes program. Proponents of all three visions in the
consultations expressed unanimous support for contraprestaciones. Stakeholders
indicated that a requirement to work should be obligatory because of the persistence of
poverty and unemployment, and as a means to discourage welfare dependency
(asistencialismo).
16. Support for conditionalities attached to benefit receipt was nearly the same within the
EPPS survey. Ninety three percent of interviewees agreed that beneficiaries needed to
"do something in exchange for receiving benefits." When asked about preferences
regarding the type of conditionality, the majority (58 percent) supported a work
requirement, while others supported participation in training courses (42 percent), a


                                              56
requirement that beneficiaries be actively seeking work (36 percent), or participation in a
productive community project (20 percent).
17. Among beneficiaries surveyed in the EPPS, an overwhelming share (89 percent)
reported that they had actually participated in some form of contraprestación. The
majority participated in a work activity (55 percent), while the second most common
activity was compliance with school attendance (27 percent) and health check-ups for
children (26 percent).
18. The general consensus in Argentina is that the current income support programs are
important. Less than 30 percent of the population would eliminate income support
programs if they could not be improved. A majority (61 percent) agreed that "programs
are always needed because there are people who need them," whereas 28 percent agreed
that "programs are only needed during economic crises." Similarly, 41 percent believe
that poverty would be worse in Argentina without the programs, 38 percent think that
unemployment would be worse, and 37 percent think that inequality would be negatively
affected.
19. The surveys showed general agreement among stakeholders that the emergency
programs (that is, Jefes) were appropriate for the post crisis period and had served their
purpose. However, there was also agreement on the need for a longer-term vision and
strategy. Respondents did not express any particular disagreement with the transition
strategy to the new Seguro and Familias programs but showed concerns about whether
the programs would be enough to satisfy the existing demand for social policies.
20. A major theme emerged surrounding the link between income support programs and
the labor market. While there is debate about the level to which social programs should
be linked to the labor market, both the consultations and the survey sent strong messages,
that employment should be an objective of social policy, and that labor market incentives
and opportunities should be considered in policy design. Related to this sentiment, there
was nearly universal support (93 percent in the EPPS) for contraprestaciones, or for some
form of conditionality to be included in the design of social programs.
21. The potential beneficiary population expressed a strong preference for programs with
tangible labor market outcomes, similar to Seguro. Beneficiaries prefer programs that
would provide training, employment services, and ideally a guaranteed job upon
completion, even if it would mean a lower benefit amount or duration of eligibility. This
finding indicates support for the type of program the government is currently introducing:
the Seguro de Capacitación y Empleo. Also, it suggests that other programs, such as
Familias, could be adapted to incorporate more of a labor market orientation, for
example, through the introduction of training opportunities or work requirements.




                                            57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                   58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Hacia fines de 2001, inicio de 2002, Argentina entró en una aguda crisis económica. El
impacto de la crisis de 2001/2002 potenció los problemas laborales y sociales de la
Argentina. El desempleo abierto alcanzó su expresión más dramática en mayo del 2002,
con una tasa del 21,5 %, fruto de la inactividad de la economía. En lo económico, las
manifestaciones de la crisis han sido devastadoras, provocando finalmente la caída de la
convertibilidad de la moneda. La profunda crisis económica sufrida en 2001-2002,
sumada al proceso recesivo de los años anteriores, produjo una contracción del PIB del
20% acumulativo, en un período de cuatro años. Sólo en 2002 la caída fue del 11%.
Esta situación provocó que en 2002 más de la mitad de la población (54,3%) se
encontraba en situación de pobreza, mientras que el 24.7% cayó en indigencia. Todos los
indicadores económicos empeoraron afectando negativamente a vastos sectores de la
población. Argentina no contaba entonces con una red de protección social, apta para
atemperar este impacto, ya que los Programas de empleo directo presentaban una
cobertura poco significativa en función de la demanda existente.
El 3 de abril de 2002, se dicte el Decreto 565 que modifica el Programa Jefes de Hogar
instituyendo el Derecho Familiar de Inclusión Social. De este modo se instala la
universalización del Plan Jefes de Hogar, que asegura un ingreso mínimo mensual a los
hogares argentinos.
El Programa tuvo por objetivo transferir una ayuda económica de $150 mensuales (
equivalía en 2002 al 75% del salario mínimo vital y móvil), a todas aquellas personas que
cumplieran con los siguientes requisitos: a) ser jefas/as de hogar desocupados; b)
pertenecer a un hogar donde hubiera hijos de hasta dieciocho años de edad, o
discapacitados de cualquier edad, o en los que la jefa o la cónyuge, concubina o
cohabitante del jefe de hogar, se hallare en estado de gravidez, y c) residir en forma
permanente en el país. También establecía obligaciones a los beneficiarios, como
condición para la percepción de la ayuda económica. Estas son:
     a) Asegurar la concurrencia escolar y control de salud de los hijos a cargo del
        jefe/a.
     b) Participar en actividades de capacitación o en la educación formal, con el objeto
        de coadyuvar a la reinserción laboral; o
     c) Incorporarse en proyectos productivos o en servicios comunitarios de impacto
        ponderable en materia ocupacional.
El Programa Jefes de Hogar cumplió un importante rol en el esquema de Protección
Social, atendiendo simultáneamente dos problemas que afectaban a la población: el
desempleo, que generaba situaciones de pobreza por falta de ingresos, así como otras
situaciones de pobreza más estructural. Dicho Programa contó con un financiamiento
concurrente del Tesoro Nacional y de un PRÉSTAMO BIRF Nº 7157- AR, en su primer
tramo, y un segundo Préstamo Proyecto de Transición del Programa Jefes de Hogar
(PRÉSTAMO BIRF Nº 7369-AR) para encarar el proceso de transición una vez superada
la crisis más aguda a los efectos apoyar la salida de la emergencia y encarar políticas


                                           59
públicas más adecuadas para atender a la población en situación de vulnerabilidad social
y laboral.
El Gobierno Argentino, encaró una estrategia de apoyo a los hogares pobres cuyos jefes
se encontraban en situación de desempleo. Dicha estrategia fue adoptando distintos
perfiles de política a los efectos de acompañar, los cambios en el mercado de trabajo, así
como en relación a las necesidades de la población. Esto permitió la aplicación gradual
de un esquema de trasformación de programa de atención a la crisis en políticas sociales
y de empleo.
El PJH tuvo su mayor expresión en mayo de 2003 (mes en el cual se pagaron la mayor
cantidad de prestaciones), con casi dos millones de personas beneficiarias (1.990.735),
para llegar al mes de febrero de 2010 con 77.041 beneficiarios/as, es decir un 3.9% del
total de las personas incorporadas inicialmente.
En este sentido, la Secretaría de Empleo considera oportuno, al elaborar un informe país,
como contribución al ICR del PRÉSTAMO BIRF Nº 7369-AR, asumir al PJH en su
integralidad, analizándolo como política de contención en contexto de crisis, y establecer
algunas reflexiones sobre las lecciones aprendidas, más allá de los tramos de
financiamiento que implicaron los dos préstamos consecutivos, destacando que ambos
cumplieron los objetivos propuestos, conforme se estableció en el Acuerdo de Préstamo y
en el PAD, y apoyaron los lineamientos de política que estableció el Gobierno Argentino.
En este sentido los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Proyecto eran ayudar al Gobierno : (i) a
reducir la pobreza apoyando el componente de contraprestación laboral del Programa
Jefes de Hogar, incluyendo las continuas mejoras en la gestión y gobernabilidad del
Programa; y (ii) fomentar actividades destinadas a colocar a más beneficiarios de este
Programa en empleos de tiempo completo, permitiéndoles así salir del Programa. Las
actividades para promover la participación de los beneficiarios en el mercado laboral
incluirían: (i) subproyectos con contraprestación laboral destinados especialmente a
fomentar la empleabilidad, ofreciendo al mismo tiempo acciones de capacitación para la
mejora de las competencias laborales, y acciones de apoyo a la inserción laboral; (ii)
apoyo a micro-proyectos productivos; y (iii) establecimiento y apoyo a las oficinas
municipales de servicios de empleo.


Algunos aspectos relevantes de la estrategia país en la construcción de un nuevo
esquema de protección social que permitió la salida del PJH.


1.      En Mayo de 2003, el Gobierno Argentino comprometió el desarrollo de políticas
económicas con centralidad en el empleo. Las mismas permitieron, progresivamente, la
reconstrucción del mercado interno, la recomposición del aparato productivo,
entendiendo que la gobernabilidad democrática sólo era posible con inclusión social. La
fragmentación social que vivía la Argentina era muy sería, y la política de superación de
estas inequidades debía tener su eje en el trabajo decente.




                                           60
2.      Cabe señalar que a partir del año 2004 (según datos de EPH) se registró un
significativo descenso de las tasas de desempleo, lo que permitió que de manera
progresiva un importante número de personas beneficiaras del PJH se incorporaran al
empleo formal, o se sumaran a otras estrategias vinculadas al autoempleo, o a procesos de
orientación laboral y apoyo a la búsqueda de empleo. Desde julio de 2003, sobre casi 2
millones de personas, aproximadamente 639.000 personas se incorporaron al mercado de
trabajo en un empleo formal, constituyendo casi un tercio de los beneficiarios del
Programa.
El Decreto 1506/04, constituyó el primer paso para encarar esta nueva orientación de la
política. Se estableció una nueva perspectiva para reorientar la atención de las personas
incluidas en el Programa Jefes de Hogar, promoviendo políticas específicas para atener
dos problemas con características peculiares: (a) la falta de empleo y (b) la carencia de
ingresos de los hogares pobres. El propósito de estos cambios es instalar progresivamente
de dos lógicas complementarias, pero diferenciadas de atención a las problemáticas de la
pobreza, la exclusión y el desempleo, desvinculando políticas de ingreso o renta mínima
de las políticas específicas de promoción del empleo:
           ·   Unas, centradas en las familias más pobres con el objeto de mejorar sus
               condiciones de vida, En tal sentido se trata de desarrollar una estrategia de
               transferencia de ingresos a los hogares pobres, cuyo eje central sea el
               desarrollo humano, en la órbita del Ministerio de Desarrollo
               Social.(Programa Familias para la Inclusión Social.
           ·   Otras, destinadas a las personas con problemas de empleo y empleabilidad,
               centradas en medidas activas de promoción a la inserción laboral, En este
               segundo conjunto de políticas se inscriben las acciones y programas de la
               Secretaría de Empleo, que fueron básicamente apoyadas a través del
               Préstamo BIRF 7369-AR

3.      Uno de los aportes más significativos del Proyecto en el apoyo a la estrategia del
Gobierno fue la contribución con el fortalecimiento y ampliación de una red municipal de
servicios de empleo, con capacidad de atender a los/as personas desocupadas que desde el
PJH optaron por incorporase al Seguro de Capacitación y Empleo y recibir el apoyo para
mejorar su empleabilidad y adquirir herramientas aptas para la búsqueda de empleo. Las
Oficinas de Empleo municipales constituyen una institucionalidad clave para la
implementación de las políticas activas de empleo a nivel territorial, comprometiendo
recursos locales para la su promoción y las capacidades instaladas para brindar opciones
referidas a la mejora de la empleabilidad, de los trabajadores/as desocupadas más
vulnerables por su bajo nivel de calificación laboral; contribuyendo asimismo a fortalecer
la oferta educativa formal y las instituciones de formación profesional sectoriales.


Lecciones Aprendidas:

   6. Frente a las crisis la necesidad de una respuesta rápida y masiva que sirviera para
      la atención a las personas vulneradas por las contingencias sociales y económicas.


                                            61
7. Diseñar e implementar esta estrategia de política social de gran magnitud,
   cobertura territorial y con celeridad, requiere de la existencia previa de
   condiciones y capacidades institucionales mínimas para su puesta en marcha. Pero
   al mismo tiempo es necesario mantener un esquema de monitoreo y evaluación de
   resultados que permita mejorar de manera sistemática y permanente aspectos
   vinculados a su gobernabilidad y mejora continua.


8. La incorporación de nuevos actores territoriales en la gestión de las políticas
   sociales aseguró la proximidad con las personas en situación de vulnerabilidad,
   así como de aquellas que encontrándose desempleadas eran buscadoras de
   oportunidades laborales. Ello permite:


       a. El fortalecimiento y creación de una institucionalidad territorial con
          capacidad creciente para desarrollar estrategias de atención a personas con
          problemas de empleo: sistema de educación de jóvenes y adultos, oficinas
          de empleo, instituciones de formación profesional.
       b. A pesar de los esfuerzos y la inversión realizada en materia de
          fortalecimiento, cabe señalar que los procesos de construcción o
          reconstrucción de los ámbitos institucionales no siempre acompañaron las
          necesidades de los programas y de las políticas. Esta situación pudo
          observarse tanto en materia de oferta educativa formal, instituciones de
          formación profesional, como de las propias oficinas de empleo
          municipales. Se expresó así una heterogeneidad en las capacidades
          instaladas a nivel local cuya consecuencia fue la diversa calidad y
          cobertura de los servicios prestados.


9. La descentralización de la gestión permitió una mayor proximidad a las
   situaciones heterogéneas de los/as trabajadores/as pobres y desocupadas, así como
   resolver los problemas y potenciar las oportunidades. Constituyó un elemento
   potente para diseñar el esquema de salida del Programa.


10. El desarrollo de un esquema de salida debe ser progresivo, asegurando que la
    población no quede fuera de la protección social, dado que la recuperación de la
    población más vulnerable es siempre más lenta que la recuperación de muchos de
    los indicadores económicos.


11. Este esquema de salida debe basarse en la opción voluntaria de los beneficiarios
    para encarar posibles trayectorias de desarrollo personal y de inclusión social. La
    necesidad de contar con ámbitos institucionales que tengan proximidad con las


                                        62
       personas beneficiarias para orientar tanto en los aspectos vinculados al desarrollo
       humano (Centros de Atención Local- Centros de Integración Comunitarios), como
       a los proceso de inserción laboral (Oficinas de Empleo Municipal). Estas últimas
       fortalecidas desde el Proyecto para el brindar apoyo a las personas en los procesos
       de orientación laboral, la búsqueda de empleo e inserción en empleos formales o
       autoempleo. Esto supone riesgos referidos a contar con los recursos humanos,
       institucionales y financieros necesarios para dar cumplimiento a estos objetivos.




Conclusiones:

Los objetivos del Programa Jefes de Hogar resultaron adecuados para atender a los
hogares afectados por la pobreza y desempleo, durante la crisis del 2002. Su desempeño
fue altamente satisfactorio en materia de focalización, alcanzando a los hogares más
pobres y desempeñando un papel decisivo para la primera fase de de recuperación
económica.
La mejora de la situación económica y social general puso al Gobierno en un nuevo
desafío, en materia de política social, asumiendo la necesidad de encarar un proceso de
reorientación del PJH, hacia nuevas estrategias de política, estableciendo alternativas
diferentes para las personas beneficiarias conforme sus necesidades, capacidades y
oportunidades, con eje central en el empleo decente.
El Seguro de Capacitación y Empleo, oportunamente, el Plan Familias por la Inclusión
Social y recientemente la Asignación Universal por Hijo, conformaron una estrategia
superadora del Programa Jefes de Hogar en materia de protección social, atendiendo a
aquellas personas que, una vez superada la crisis, no lograron insertarse en empleos de
calidad.


                                            Buenos Aires, 26 de mayo de 2010.




                                           63
Annex 8. Selected Findings from Survey of Employment Offices

The survey was carried out between December 2009 and January 2010. The objective
was to obtain information on the operation and capabilities of the Employment Offices,
the obstacles they faced, as well as good practices and initiatives. The survey gathered
information in six main areas: human resources and infrastructure; communications and
institutional relations; internal management; knowledge of labor market and the programs
in the Ministry of Labor; services for job seekers; and relations with employers. The
survey was self-administered on-line and completed by the coordinator of the
employment office. The sample included 232 employment offices (about 80 percent of
the offices existing at the time) from around the country and was restricted to those
offices who had been in place for a minimum period of time. Selected findings are
summarized below.

Organization and Basic Characteristics

The individuals participating in the survey had a reasonable amount of experience in the
employment offices. 85 percent of the main respondents to the survey had been working
in the office for at least a year and 58 percent had been working for at least 2 years.
About 80 percent had been in their current job for at least one year and 50 percent for at
least 2 years.       Most respondents were coordinators, with the majority having a
secondary responsibility of working with job seekers. 60 percent of the staff was split
evenly between administrative personnel and interviewers. Nearly 70 percent of the staff
are women. For about 60 percent of the offices the average experience of the staff was
more than 1 year. About a third of the staff had received some form of training in the last
6 months. On average the municipality was financing nearly two-thirds of the staff,
principally administrative staff. A substantial share of staff were assigned to one main
function, suggesting a degree of specialization in different roles, although there were no
cases of personnel with 100 percent of their time devoted to only one role. In addition to
the provision of employment services, the majority of offices (90 percent) also had
responsibility for the management/administration of social programs, reflecting the
influence of the Heads of Household Program and illustrating the challenge of moving to
an employment focus. Nearly 40 percent had yet another additional responsibility.

Use of Office Tools: Computer Platform, Client Registry, Guide to Resources, and
Knowledge of the Local Labor Market

90% of the offices have a guide to resources for making client referrals, but in only half is
the guide computerized. All of the guides contain education and training institutions
and/or social and health services, mostly public. The guides are less likely to have
information on institutions related to the private sector and employers, such as business
groups and professional associations. In about 70 of the offices, the guides include
childcare facilities. Only 20 percent of the offices update the guide on a monthly basis.
Nearly half of the offices do not update the guide on a regular basis. About 80 percent of
the offices try to include new agencies in the guide.




                                             64
About 75 percent of the offices utilize the national computerized information platform to
register all clients who utilize services, and about 70 percent use it for anyone who comes
to the office. The platform is used most frequently (90 percent) to record labor histories
and to management employment programs, such as the Training and Employment
Insurance and Youth Employment Program (70 percent). It is used less often to register
employers (34 percent). Between 30-40 percent of offices rarely or never use the
platform to register training courses or to make training referrals. About 70 percent of
the offices responded that the platform was very useful for registering labor histories and
for about half, it was useful for general management of services. On the other hand,
nearly 60 percent of the offices reported either that the platform was not a useful
instrument or that they did not utilize it in their work with employers. The principal
problems with the platform are: connectivity (reported by 80 percent of the offices),
difficulties in accessing the information (42 percent) and lack of sufficient training (39
percent).

Nearly half of the offices have a computerized registry to record referrals to labor
intermediation activities, but only 40 percent had computerized information on the
number of individuals interviewed or contracted by employers. Only 14 percent of
offices lack a registry of job referrals and 30 percent do not keep track of the results of
referrals. About 40 percent have a paper registry of job referrals, and 30 percent for
jobseekers actually placed in jobs.

Most offices (70 percent) state that they have sufficient information on their local labor
market. Information is obtained mainly from conversations with employers (70 percent),
municipal reports or their own analysis (57 percent). Only 10 offices said that they did
not keep track of local labor market developments. The construction industry and
domestic service are the two main sources of demand for workers in all municipalities.

Competencies of the Employment Offices: Establishing Themselves in the
Municipality, Planning, Priorities, and Feedback from Clients

80 percent of the offices have a publicity strategy. Most have monthly sessions to
publicize their services with job-seekers (72 percent), 47 percent have monthly sessions
outside of the office in another place in the municipality. Publicity with employers is
less, with 40 percent doing monthly meetings in the office for employers. Only a third of
offices do something on a monthly basis in the offices of businesses. Links with business
associations appear to be underutilized - only 17 percent do monthly meetings with those
institutions. Monthly meetings to publicize the office are organized by only 20-30
percent of offices at schools, training institutions, etc. About the same share carries out
sessions at schools every quarter. The data show that about a third of offices do not plan
and do not carry out regularly meetings with employers, suggesting the need to set
guidelines for publicity with businesses and in locations outside of the office.

The most common form of publicity is the distribution of printed materials (two-thirds of
offices), followed by publicity in local communication channels and talks in the office for
job-seekers (both about 60 percent). Nearly half have rarely or never organized a talk in



                                            65
the office for employers. 40 percent make visits to other institutions, and 45 percent use
e-mail. About 100 offices responded that they had something interesting to share on their
diffusion strategy which was innovative or that had had good results. When asked about
the importance of the office to the municipality, the responses were about evenly split
between those who give it a high priority and those who give it a medium priority (i.e.,
the office is just another municipal service). Only about 10 percent say that the
municipality does not give any importance to the employment office.

There were several questions which aimed to determine the extent to which the
employment offices were planning their services. When asked if they set targets to be
reached over a specific period of time, most often (70 percent of offices) mentioned were
publicity activities, workshops, and transfers to the Insurance. The next most frequently
mentioned (by around 60 percent) were targets for visits to employers and businesses;
about half of the offices set targets for the number of people served and interviews for
job-seekers. Only about 40 percent of offices set targets for the number of vacancies the
office should receive. Of concern is the fact that about half of the employment offices do
not plan their activities in important areas such as number of people to be served, number
of interviews of job-seekers, and the number of vacancies available in the office. There
seems to be a particular issue with vacancies. Related to planning is the extent to which
the employment offices are differentiating their services and plans, according to the
characteristics of the clients. Most offices make some distinctions, the most common
being which program the client is participating in, followed by sex and age, but about a
third of offices don't make any distinction.

What are the main functions that the office staff are spending their time on day-to-day?
The activities with the highest ranking by most offices (90 percent) are helping people get
jobs and improve their employability. Slightly fewer (84 percent) offices respond that
they are spending their time helping people get better training. About 75 percent of the
offices think their activities contribute to the social and economic development of the
municipality.     About two-thirds mention helping employers get workers and
administering employment plans. The only functions which most offices identify as not
very important are to carry out social assistance activities (about 50 percent rank as low) ,
to administer employment plans (about a third rank as low), and to help employers get
workers. For the latter, 30 percent rank it as low in importance. Overall, the order of
importance of the activities most often identified by the offices is as follows:
work/employability, training, municipal development, and employers/administer plans.


To what extent do they get feedback from their clients? Among job seekers the most
common response was frequently (40 percent) and sometimes (40 percent). A lower
share report similar responses for employers, respectively 37 percent and 31 percent.
Nearly a third of offices do not try to measure client satisfaction among employers.
Overwhelmingly (90 percent of offices) this feedback is solicited informally (90 percent)
through conversations and comments. 13 offices respond that they use a survey. Most
offices (80 percent) do not have a complaints system for the users of their services.




                                             66
Characteristics of the Services Provided

There is little subcontracting of services in the employment offices. Nearly half as many
women as men visit the employment offices. The service that about three-fourths of
offices say is highly utilized by clients is the registration of their labor force history.
About 40% of offices identify other services as highly utilized by clients: the provision of
employment advice, personalized counseling sessions related to the youth employment
program, and training and education referrals. The next most highly utilized (marked by
only 30% of offices) are help on looking for work, getting information on vacancies, and
referrals to other social or employment programs. Services that are mentioned mainly in
the category of used commonly are: help for job search, labor orientation, information on
vacancies, and referrals to other social or employment programs. The employment
offices report that there is little use of referrals to social services, preparing career
ladders, training plans, and other services. It is worrisome that there is relatively little
utilization of some services such as labor orientation, help in job search, and information
on vacancies because these relate to labor intermediation which should be a central
activity or the office. It suggests that the employment services need to develop beyond
just taking labor force histories, towards more counseling and higher value services. On
the positive side, the employment offices seem to be serving as a gateway to education
and training services.

Labor force histories are applied widely, to nearly every client. Nearly 90 percent of
employment offices say that they include the labor force history in the interview.
Slightly less than 60 percent of offices report that they cover training and education
services. Less than half of offices include a discussion of workshops and the employment
and social programs available in the interviews with jobseekers. Only about 30 percent of
offices cover information on vacancies and the local labor market in all interviews. It is
worrisome that about 30 percent of offices say that they hardly ever include information
on local labor market or vacancies in the interviews. The responses suggest that up to
now offices are not personalizing their strategy with jobseekers and instead tend to apply
an "education/training first strategy" for most clients. Also of concern is the relative lack
of discussion of topics related to labor intermediation.

Regarding referrals, not surprisingly those related to education and training are most
common. About 70 percent of offices report that they make these referrals frequently.
Taking into account their recent establishment, the extent to which referrals to social
services are being made is good. About a quarter of offices say frequently and 40 percent
of office report that they make these referrals "sometimes". The average number of
referrals per office during the 4 week reference period was 65 for education, 74 for
training, 12 for self-employment services and 12 to other social services. When making
training referrals, the main factors that the staff seems to be taking into account are
course availability, the interests and time limitations of the person, the location of the
course, and the past experience of the office with the course. To a lesser but still
significant extent (mentioned by about half of the offices) the type of training demanded
by employers and whether or not the course offers a certification are taken into account.
Where and how often do the offices learn about the supply of training courses? The main



                                             67
sources are the municipality and the programs themselves. About 40 percent of offices
say that they get this information on a weekly basis. Information is received to a lesser
extent form the Ministry of Labor provincial offices (30 percent) and through the
information platform (only 20 percent). There seem to be some differences between
offices on how often training information is received as most responses are concentrated
at the two extremes (weekly vs. occasionally/without any specific time table). An area
for improvement is the provision of information through the platform as half of the
offices say that they never get information through this means. The quality of training
offered through the municipality may be lower quality, so it is of some concern that this
is one of the main sources of information.

One of the services of the employment offices ­ and a focus in the Project ­ was the
organization of workshops, particularly for beneficiaries of the Heads of Household and
the Training and Employment Insurance Programs. Progress in this area has been slower
than expected. Over the 3 month reference period, only 40 percent of offices responded
that they organized job search and labor orientation courses at least monthly. Not
surprisingly and appropriately, the courses for individuals interested in self-employment
are organized less frequently. It is of concern that there are many employment offices
which organize workshops only occasionally or without any particular timing. In fact
there are about 50 offices who have never organized these workshops. What are the
factors which explain the shortfall in the organization of workshops? Several reasons are
given. Slightly over 20 percent of offices say that don't have sufficient training and 11
percent say that they can't find a qualified trainer. In other words, it could be said that
for 30 percent of offices there is a skills/supply problem. Slightly less than 20 percent of
offices say that it is because there is not sufficient demand.

What services are of most interest to job seekers? The services of most interest to job
seekers are information on vacancies and support in looking for work, showing that there
is a disconnect between what services the employment offices are focusing on and what
services clients want. Interest in referrals for education and training are also pretty high.
Interest in referrals to other social services is ranked as medium by most offices. For
most public employment services, labor intermediation is the core service. In this area,
the responses show that the employment offices in Argentina have some way to go. First,
only 2/3 of the offices responded to the questions in this section of the survey on the
number of interviews and job placements. Presumably the offices who did not respond
had nothing to report. Among offices which responded, on average, 35 individuals per
week were referred to job interviews and 15 were placed. The average number of job
vacancies received by those offices responding was 17, of which 13 were covered. The
most common way that vacancies are received during the 4 week reference period by the
offices is by telephone (mentioned by two/thirds of the offices). 60 percent of offices say
that employers come to the office to register vacancies. About half of the offices say that
they get vacancies through visits to employers and slightly less than 50 percent through e-
mail. A third of the offices say that they can fill the vacancy more than 75 percent of the
time and over half say 70 percent of the time, with only about 22 percent (32 offices)
saying that they can meet the demand less than 25 percent of the time. Most offices (75




                                             68
percent) inform the job-seekers of employment opportunities by telephone. 50 percent of
the respondents say they use notices in the office.

Relations with Others

Reflecting the importance of the technical assistance being provided by the Ministry of
Labor, the employment offices have contact most frequently with the provincial offices
of the Ministry. About a third of the offices say that they have weekly contact with other
offices in the municipality. Most offices also report contacts with private employment
offices. Based on the responses, the resource guides of the offices are fairly
comprehensive. Areas for improvement include the inclusion of more business
associations and child care services. Nearly a third of offices say that there resource
guide does not include the latter. The agreements between the employment office and
other agencies are usually informal. That being said, nearly 50 offices have a formal
agreement with training institutions and 45 have formal agreements with education
centers.

Establishing close relations with local employers is key for effective public employment
services. Nearly all offices report that they have an employer register. About half of the
offices use their own internal database (generally non-computerized), and a third use the
platform. Among those offices who responded (70 percent) there are 200 employers
registered in each. How frequently and how do the offices communicate with employers?
Slightly more than a fifth of the offices make at least weekly visits to employers, 26
percent of the offices send e-mails, and 31 percent call. It is worrisome that 22 percent of
offices only visit employers every month or quarter. A substantial share of offices are not
using some communication channels: 44 percent (60 offices) have not organized group
meetings for employers in the office and 33 percent (43) have not organized group
meetings with employer associations during the last 4 weeks. It is worrisome that only
70 percent of offices are responding to the question. During the 4 week reference period,
the average number of employers contacted by each office is only 18. The average
number of employer interviews during the same period as 12 and for only 7 employers on
average did the office carryout labor intermediation services. On the positive side, about
half of the offices think that their relations with companies have improved over the last
year, while the rest report no change.

Areas for Improvements

The survey respondents identified several areas in which they wanted more training. The
most common responses (60 percent of offices) for the highest priority were the
following areas: employer relations, youth, labor market analysis, and knowledge about
the programs of the Ministry of Labor. The areas ranked next in importance were labor
orientation, support for job search, self-employment, labor intermediation, use of the
platform, following up clients, and working with other institutions. Of medium priority
are career ladders and how to improve referrals. The offices were also asked to identify
what was most important in order to improve their services for jobseekers and employers.
Ranked the highest were training on labor intermediation and learning about the good



                                            69
practices of other offices. Other areas ranked highly by 100 or more offices were
implementation of agreements on referrals, knowledge of the local labor market,
strategies for internal planning, and making contacts with employers.




                                       70
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Transición del Programa Jefes de Hogar Desocupados: Sub componente de Obra Pública
Local con Capacitación "Trabajadores Constructores": Revisión del desempeño en la
etapa final del Crédito. María Claudia Vásquez, Consultant. September 2009

Transición del Programa Jefes de Hogar: Subcomponente de Proyectos Productivos.
Documento de la revisión ex post de la ejecución de una muestra de proyectos. Cristina
Cogliati, Consultant. November 2008

Argentina Income Support Policies toward the Bicentennial. World Bank Country Study.
July 2006 / June 2008. Los Programas Sociales en Argentina hacia el Bicentenario.
Visiones y perspectivas. Capitulo 2: Los programas sociales en la opinión pública.
Resultados de la Encuesta de Percepción. Cruces y Rovner. November 2008.

Preliminary Findings of Survey of Employment Offices, World Bank Staff, April 2010.




                                         71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33362R
                 70°W                     BOLIVIA To Tarija                                                             60°W                                                                                 50°W




                                                         UJUY
                                                       J UJ UY                                       Pil
                                                                                                        co
                                    To
                                  Calama
                                                                                                            ma
                                                                                                              yo          PA RA GUAY
                                                                            San Salvador De Jujuy
                                                                                                                                               To
                                                    S A L TA                Salta                                  FORMOSA                  San Pedro




                                                     s
               C H ILE                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                               Cascavel




                                                                                       S
                                                                                       Salad
                                                                                       S




                                                                                                                                              y
                                                                                                                                            ua
                                                                                                             CHACO




                                                                                                                                                                  á
                                                                                                                               Formosa




                                                                                                                                           rag
                                                  e




                                                                                                                                                                 Paran
                                                       TUCUMÁN




                                                                                            o




                                                                                                                                         Pa
                           To                                                 San Miguel De Tucumán
                         Copiapó          d                                         SANTIAGO                                                        Posadas              ES        BRAZIL
                                    CATAMARCA                                         Santiago Del Estero
                                                                                                                     Resistencia
                                                                                                                                                                  SI  ON
                                                                                                                                     Corrientes
                                                                                                                                                               MI     y
                                                                                                                                                                   ua
                                                                                    DEL ESTERO                                                                   ug
                                    n

                                                                                                                                                               Ur
                                                                         Catamarca                                                   CORRIENTES                   To
                                                 La Rioja                                                                                                     Santa Rosa
                              A




                   To
               La Serena
                                                             LA                                            S A N TA                                     To
                                                                                         Laguna
                                                                                    Mar Chiquita              FE                                        Santa Maria
30°S
                                                        RIOJA




                                                                                                                         ná
                            SAN                                                       Cordoba




                                                                                                                       ra
                                                                                                                                              To




                                                                                                                     Pa
                           JUAN            San Juan                                                   Santa Fe        Paraná                  Artigas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30°S
                            Cerro                                            CO
                                                                             CO R D O B A                                                        To
                            Aconcagua                                                                                 ENTRE
                                                      Desa




                                                                                                                                                 Tacuarembó
 PACIFIC                    (6960 m)
                                                                                                                       RÍOS
                                                       gua
                                                       gua
                                                       guadero




                                     Mendoza
                                                                                                           Rosario
 OCEAN
                   To
               Valparaíso
                                                                       San Luis
                                                                                                                                          To URUGUAY
                                                                                                                                          Montevideo
                                                                                           s




                                EN
                              M EN D O Z A                        SAN
                                                                                      a




                                                                  LUIS                                                               BUENOS AIRES
                                                                                                                                         La Plata
                                                                                    p




                  To
                                                                                 m




                 Talca
                                                                                                                                                                           0     100      200   300    400    500 Kilometers
                                                                                                           BUENOS
                                                              S
                                                              Salado
                                                              S




                                                                             P a




                                                                                      Santa Rosa
                                   Colo                                                                     AIRES
                                       rado                        LA
                                                                                                                                                                           0           100       200         300 Miles
                                                                 PA M PA                                                                   Mar del Plata
                  To
         Los Ángeles
                         NEUQUEN
                                                                                                   Bahía Blanca
                                                   Neuquén
                                                                            Ne




                                                                              gr
                                                                                o
                                                  EGR
                                          R I O N EGR O
                      A n d
                      A n d
                      A n d




40°S
            To                                                                                  Viedma
       Puerto Montt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40°S

                                      C
                                                  CHUBUT
                            e s

                                       hu




                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARGENTINA
                                                                                                                       AT LA NT IC
                                        ub
                                        u
                                          u
                                          ut
                                          u




                                                                                  Rawson

                                                                                                                        O CEA N
                                                a
                                                          o
                                                      hic




                                                       C
                                            n i




                 To
             Coihaique                                           Comodoro Rivadavia
                                    t a g o




                                            Deseado
       C H ILE
                                       S A N TA
                                        CRUZ
                                          Ch

                                                                                                                                                                                   A R GE N TI NA
                                             i
                                            ca
                                    a




                                                                                      FALKLAND ISLANDS (ISLAS MALVINAS)
                                    P




                                                                                         A DISPUTE CONCERNING SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE
                                                                                       ISLANDS EXISTS BETWEEN ARGENTINA WHICH CLAIMS                           50°S
50°S                                                                                   THIS SOVEREIGNTY AND THE U.K. WHICH ADMINISTERS                                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                         THE ISLANDS.

                                                     Río Gallegos                                                                                                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                               Stanley                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS

                                                                 TIERRA                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                 DEL FUEGO                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                     RAILROADS
                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                             Ushuaia                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
80°W                                         70°W                                                           60°W                                              50°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUGUST 2008
