Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7369-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Heads of Household Transition Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 11, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7369-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 2006, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows:  
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes (excluding the export tax and the financial transaction 
tax) levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed 
under the Loan, or on their importation (with the exception of import tariffs above 28%), 
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s 
policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that 
end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage 
Page  3
-
2
-
for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank. 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words 
“corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Administrative Arrangement” means the arrangement entered into 
between the Ministry of Labor and MSD (as defined below) of January 6, 2004, as said 
arrangement may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(b) 
“Arg$” means Argentine Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(c) 
“Beneficiary” means an individual who meets the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual I or Operational Manual II (each as defined below), as the case may 
be, to benefit from a Subproject (as defined below); 
 
(d) 
“Employment Services” means: (i) job placement; (ii) assisted and/or 
supervised job search; (iii) workshops on job search or labor orientation; and (iv) 
referrals to support self-employment and social services;  
(e) “EPH” 
means 
Encuesta Permanente de Hogares
,
a
quarterly national 
household survey carried out by the Borrower; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.08 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(h) “
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program” means the Borrower’s program 
established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 565, dated April 3, 2002 (as amended by 
Decrees Nos. 39/2003, 1353/2003, 1506/2004 of January 7 and December 29, 2003, and 
October 28, 2004, respectively and extended in its application pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law No. 26077 of December 22, 2005 until December 31, 2006); 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
“Ministry of Labor” means the Borrower’s 
Ministerio de Trabajo, 
Empleo y Seguridad Social
;
(j) 
“Ministry of Social Development” or “MSD” means the Borrower’s 
Ministerio de Desarrollo Social
;
(k) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter of 
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(l) 
“Municipality” means a political sub-division within any of the 
Borrower’s provinces; 
(m) 
“Municipality Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Operational Manual I” means the manual for Subprojects I referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Operational Manual II” means the manual for Subprojects II referred to 
in Section 3.06 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Other Organization” means a non-profit organization selected in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual I; 
(q) 
“Per Diems for Temporary Workers” means payments (through bank 
debit cards) for Temporary Workers (as defined below) carrying out Subprojects I (as 
defined below), made  in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual I 
provided  in addition to the Remuneration for Temporary Workers and designed to cover 
expenses incurred to promote and/or improve their employability (such as transportation 
and child care services expenses); 
(r) 
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;   
(s) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June 
6, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(t) 
“Remuneration for Temporary Workers” means the remuneration for 
temporary employment (paid through bank debit cards) provided in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual I and/or Operational Manual II to Temporary 
Workers (as defined below) under the 
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program, subject to the 
limitation set forth in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
(u) “SE” 
means 
Secretaría 
de
Empleo
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Employment within the Ministry of Labor (as defined above);  
(v) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Subproject” means a Subproject I, and/or a Subproject II, as the case 
may be; 
(x) 
“Subproject I” means a set of activities under the 
JEFES DE HOGAR
 
Program aiming at improving employability of the Beneficiaries, consisting of, 
inter alia
:
(i)  community services, including work in soup kitchens, of care-givers for the elderly, 
children, or disabled, as well as support to the provision of health and education services; 
(ii) municipal services, including maintenance of buildings and cleaning of public spaces; 
(iii) vocational training or completion of basic education; or (iv) small infrastructure 
projects, including rehabilitation, expansion and new construction of social infrastructure 
such as health centers, schools, and community centers, all such activities being eligible 
for financing under the 
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Manual I; 
(y) 
“Subproject II” means an investment under the 
JEFES DE HOGAR 
Program aiming at increasing Beneficiaries’ income, consisting of, 
inter
 
alia
,
productive 
activities that support: (i) production or value-added agricultural, livestock or fishing 
initiatives; (ii) production of inputs and equipment for manufacturing and construction 
activities; (iii) manufacturing of products for final consumption (such as textiles, shoes 
and crafts); or (iv) commerce and/or services activities, including catering, childcare, care 
of the elderly, grooming and internet services, all such investments being eligible for 
financing under the 
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual II;   
(z) 
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and 
(ab) 
“Temporary Workers” means any unemployed individuals who may be 
considered eligible to participate under the 
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred 
fifty million Dollars
 
($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Remuneration for Temporary Workers, Per Diems for Temporary Workers and 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de la
 Nación Argentina
 on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one  percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is
 accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, shall: 
(a) 
carry out:  (i) Parts A, C, and D of the Project through the Ministry of 
Labor; and (ii) Part B of the Project through the Ministry of Labor and MSD, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
labor and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and 
(b) 
ensure that the Ministry of Labor and MSD maintain the Administrative 
Arrangement for purposes of governing the role of said ministries in connection with the 
carrying out of Subprojects II. 
 
Section 3.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: 
(i) 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan; 
(ii) 
procurement of goods in respect of Subprojects I shall be limited 
to said type of subprojects that meet the following criteria: (i) 
they cost no more than $135,000 equivalent; and (ii) they require 
the procurement of goods in an aggregate amount of less than 
$75,000 equivalent; and 
(iii) 
procurement of goods in respect of Subprojects II shall be 
limited to said type of subprojects that require the procurement 
of goods in an aggregate amount of less than Arg$15,000.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. 
For the purposes of assisting the Ministry of Labor in the overall 
management of the Project, the Borrower shall operate and maintain throughout the 
execution of the Project, within the Ministry of Labor, a project management unit (the 
PMU) with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with 
managers and other personnel in adequate number and with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. 
 In respect of the activities under Parts A and B of the Project, 
the Borrower:  (a) agrees to maintain Remuneration for Temporary Workers at a rate of 
Arg$150 per month (or another rate pursuant to the review referred to in (c) herein if 
acceptable to the Bank); (b) agrees to pay Per Diems for Temporary Workers at a rate of 
up to Arg$50 per month; and (c) may review the rate referred to in (a) herein taking into 
consideration data provided by the EPH. 
 
Section 3.06. (a)  Without limitation to the provisions of  Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) an operational 
manual (the Operational Manual I), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, 
inter 
alia
:
(A) the eligibility criteria, detailed rules, and procedures for the selection of 
Subprojects I; (B) the methodology to be used in the evaluation of Subprojects I; (C) the 
cut-off date for approving a Subproject I; (D) the actions to be adopted by the Borrower 
in case a Beneficiary or Municipality fails to comply with any of its obligations under the 
corresponding Implementation Agreement; (E) the criteria for the selection of Other 
Organizations; (F) the methodology to be used for determining and paying the Per Diems  
for Temporary Workers of Subprojects I; (G) a model Subproject Agreement; (H) a 
model Implementation Agreement; (I) a model Municipality Agreement; and (J) 
mandatory safeguard policies applying to Subprojects I, particularly regarding the 
environmental assessment that each Subproject I must undergo and the safeguard and 
mitigation actions that shall be carried out for any such Subprojects I which could have a 
possible negative environmental impact such as, in particular, through the use of any 
pesticide, increased deforestation, pollution of groundwater, impacts on endangered 
species, increased pesticide level in food, increased soil erosion, impact on parks and 
protected areas, or encroachment on natural habitats; and (ii) an operational manual (the 
Page  10
-
9
-
Operational Manual II), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, 
inter alia
:
(A) the 
eligibility criteria, detailed rules, and procedures for the selection of Subprojects II; (B) 
the eligibility criteria for selecting Temporary Workers; (C) the methodology to be used 
in the evaluation of Subprojects II; (D) the cut-off date for approving a Subproject II; (E) 
the actions to be adopted by the Borrower in case a Beneficiary or Municipality fails to 
comply with any of its obligations under the corresponding Implementation Agreement; 
(F) the criteria for the selection of Other Organizations; (G) a model Subproject 
Agreement; (H) a model Implementation Agreement; (I) a model Municipality 
Agreement; and (J) mandatory safeguard policies applying to Subprojects II, particularly 
regarding the environmental assessment that each Subproject II must undergo and the 
safeguard and mitigation actions that shall be carried out for any such Subprojects II 
which could have a possible negative environmental impact such as, in particular, 
through the use of any pesticide, increased deforestation, pollution of groundwater, 
impacts on endangered species, increased pesticide level in food, increased soil erosion, 
impact on parks and protected areas, or encroachment on natural habitats. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual I or Operational Manual II, or any 
provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and 
those of the Operational Manual I or Operational Manual II, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.07. 
For the purposes of carrying out activities requiring the financing 
of materials under Subprojects I, the Borrower, through the Ministry of Labor, shall: 
(a) 
after having selected a Subproject I, following the procedures established 
in the Operational Manual, enter into an agreement (the Subproject Agreement) with a 
Municipality or Other Eligible Organization for the financing of materials required under 
the pertinent subproject, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under any Subproject 
Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement, or 
any provision thereof. 
Section 3.08. (a) Upon approval of a Subproject II requiring the financing of 
goods, the Borrower, through Ministry of Labor, shall transfer, on a grant basis, a portion 
of the Loan proceeds allocated to Category (3) (c) (ii) (set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) to the pertinent Municipality pursuant to an 
agreement (the Municipality Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
said Municipality on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
Page  11
-
10
-
the obligation of the Municipality to: (i) enter into an agreement (the Implementation 
Agreement) with the corresponding Beneficiary on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank; and (ii) procure the goods on behalf of the corresponding Beneficiary in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 (b) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Municipality Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Municipality Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.09. 
For the purposes of carrying our Part C of the Project, the 
Borrower, through the Ministry of Labor, shall enter into a project agreement with each 
municipality in which an employment office shall be established under said Part C.  Said 
agreement shall establish, 
inter alia
,
the standards of service to be provided by, and 
expected results from the operation of, such office. 
Section 3.10. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.08 (a) of this 
Agreement and prior to the disbursement of Loan proceeds (allocated to the disbursement 
category referred to in said section) in respect of a particular Subproject II, the Borrower 
shall: (a) enter into the pertinent Municipality Agreement; and (b) cause the pertinent 
Municipality to enter into the respective Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 3.11.   The Borrower, through the PMU, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 15, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Page  12
-
11
-
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.12. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all payments of Remuneration for 
Temporary Workers and Per Diems for Temporary Workers be done through bank debit 
cards . 
 
Section 3.13. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Labor, shall ensure that 
concurrent audits of the Project are carried out monthly, in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the Ministry of Labor, shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  13
-
12
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.11 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The date August 9, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Economy and Production of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
    Telex: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA  
 
121942-AR 
 Y 
PRODUCCION 
 
Facsimile: (54)(11)4349-8815  
Page  15
-
14
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By  /s/ Felisa Miceli 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
Authorized Representative 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Consult
ants’ services 
8,000,000 
100% 
 
(2)  Goods under Parts C and 
1,500,000 
100% (except as  
 
D of the Project 
 
provided in Section 
 
5.08
of
the General 
 
Conditions) 
 
(3) Subprojects: 
 
(a)  Remuneration for 
279,000,000 
40% while neither the 
 
Temporary Workers 
 
First Condition or the 
 
Second Condition are 
 
being met; 60% while 
 
the First Condition is 
 
being met; and 55% 
 
while the Second 
 
Condition is being 
 
met 
 
(b)  Per Diems for 
20,000,000 
60% 
 
Temporary Workers 
 
(c) Goods: 
 
(i)  for Subprojects I 
18,000,000 
70% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ii)  for Subprojects II 
20,000,000 
100% (except as  
 
provided in Section 
 
5.08
of
the General 
 
Conditions) 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(4)  Premia for Interest Rate 
-0- 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 Collars 
 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(5)  Front-end fee 
3,500,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of the 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 350,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
(i) 
 
the term “First Condition” means condition set forth in 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
(ii) 
the term  “Second Condition” means the condition set forth in 
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule; and 
(iii) 
promptly upon issuance of the results of each quarterly EPH, 
starting with the results of the third quarter 2005 EPH, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the relevant disbursement 
percentage for Category (3) (a) in the table in paragraph 1 
immediately above, as determined by whether the First 
Condition or the Second Condition is met according to the 
results of said EPH.  Such percentage shall apply to all Loan 
proceeds withdrawal applications received by the Bank after the 
date of such notification and until the date of the next such 
notification. 
Page  19
-
18
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals, for payments under Category 3 (a) set forth in the table 1 in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, shall be made at the rate of 60% as of the date the Bank 
notifies the Borrower that the following condition has been met as evidenced by the 
relevant EPH results: the level of compliance with the JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program’s 
work requirement (including eligible training and education activities) has exceeded 
65%; and 
(b) 
Withdrawals for payments under Category 3 (a) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, shall be made at the rate of 55% as of the date the Bank 
notifies the Borrower that the following condition has been met as evidenced by the 
relevant EPH results: the level of compliance with the JEFES DE HOGAR Program’s 
work requirement (including eligible training and education activities) has reached 60%. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $70,000,000 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
April 1, 2005; (b) Category 3 (c) (i) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the 
Borrower, through the Ministry of Labor, shall have approved the Operational Manual I; 
and (c) Category 3 (c) (ii) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Borrower, 
through the Ministry of Labor, shall have approved the Operational Manual II. 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) Remuneration 
for Temporary Workers and Per Diem for Temporary Workers under Parts A and B of 
the Project; and (b) items subject to Post Review pursuant to Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce poverty through support to the JEFES 
DE HOGAR Program, a social safety net benefiting mostly the poor; and  improving  its 
participants’ employability.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program
Execution of Subprojects I.  
Part B
:
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program 
Execution of Subprojects II. 
Part C
:
Employment Services
Establishment and strengthening of Ministry of Labor offices in municipalities 
throughout the Borrower’s territory, through the provision of specialized technical 
assistance, training, equipment and software, such offices to provide Employment 
Services especially, but not exclusively, to beneficiaries of the 
JEFES DE HOGAR
 
Program. 
Part D
:
JEFES DE HOGAR
 Program Governance, Monitoring and Evaluation and Project 
Management
Provision of support to the Ministry of Labor, through the provision of technical 
assistance, necessary goods and equipment, to enable it to improve governance 
arrangements, and to manage, coordinate, monitor and evaluate the 
JEFES DE HOGAR
 
Program.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
September 15, 2010 
4.00% 
 
March 15, 2011 
4.00% 
 
September 15, 2011 
4.00% 
 
March 15, 2012 
4.00% 
 
September 15, 2012 
5.50% 
March 15, 2013 
5.50% 
 
September 15, 2013 
5.50% 
 
March 15, 2014 
5.50% 
 
September 15, 2014 
5.50% 
 
March 15, 2015 
5.50% 
 
September 15, 2015 
5.50% 
 
March 15, 2016 
5.50% 
 
September 15, 2016 
6.50% 
 
March 15, 2017 
6.50% 
 
September 15, 2017 
6.50% 
 
March 15, 2018 
6.50% 
 
September 15, 2018 
7.00% 
 
March 15, 2019 
7.00% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
Page  22
-
21
-
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
(a) Services for assignments that meet the requirements 
set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior review 
by the Bank. 
(b) 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding sub-
paragraph (a):   
(i) 
contracts with a total duration of six months or more shall be 
advertised in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines; and 
Page  25
-
24
-
(ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
cancel,  waive or fail to enforce any contract procured under said 
sub-paragraph (a). 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; (c)  the  first two contracts to be 
procured under National Competitive Bidding; (d) the first two contracts to be procured 
under Shopping; (e) each contract for individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (f) each contract awarded through single source 
selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3)  set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $35,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  27
-
26
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  28
-
27
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
