Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20144RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60.0 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY PILOT PROJECT'
February 14, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 14, 2000)
Currency Unit = Russian Ruble (RUB)
RUB 28.72 = US$ I
US$ 0.035  I RUB
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                         Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CEO                         Chief Executive Officers
EA                          Environmental Assessment
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
FER                         Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
FFS                        Federal Forest Service
NGO                         Non-government Organization
OP                          Operational Policy
PAD                         Project Appraisal Document
PDL                         Portfolio Development Loan
PIP                         Project Implementation Plan
PIU                         Project Implementation Unit
VAT                         Value added tax
WWF                         World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Michael F. Carter
Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Sector Manager: John A. Hayward
Team Leader: Marjory-Anne Bromhead



Russian Federation
Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective .........................2
1. Project development objectives                                              2
2. Key performance indicators                                                  2
B Strategic Context .........................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                  2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices          4
C Project Description Summary ........................5
1. Project components                                                          5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                9
3. Benefits and target population                                              9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                10
5. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                       11
D Project Rationale .............                                                        12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                   12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                          13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                             13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                  14
E Summary Project Analysis .....................                                          14
1. Economic                                                                    14
2. Financial and Fiscal Impact Analysis                                         14
3. Technical                                                                    15
4. Institutional                                                                15
5. Social                                                                       16
6. Environmental assessment                                                     16
7. Participatory approach                                                       17
F Sustainability and Risks ..................                                            17
1. Sustainability                                                               17
2. Critical Risks                                                               18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects                                               18
G Main Loan Conditions ..................                                                 19
1. Agreements reached at Negotiations                                           19
2. Effectiveness Conditions                                                     19



H Readiness for Implementation .......................                           19
I Compliance with Bank Policies ....................... 20
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Project Description
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Summary Economic Analysis
Annex 5.   Summary Fiscal and Financial Impact Analysis
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Procurement Arrangements
Table Al  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A2   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table A3   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table B.   Disbursement and Financial Reporting Arrangements
Table C.   Disbursement Schedule
Table D    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in the Project File
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10. Country at a Glance
Annex 11. Environmental Impact Assessment Summary
Annex 12. Summary Stakeholder and Institutional Analysis
Maps:      IBRD 30242 - Russian Federation: Forest Types and Protected Areas
IBRD 30243 - Russian Federation: Wood Industry Locations and Wood Flow Pattems
IBRD 30244 - Forest Sector in Leningrad Oblast
IBRD 30261 - Forest Sector in Krasnoyarsk Kray (South)
IBRD 30262 - Forest Sector in Khabarovsk Kray (South)



Russian Federation
Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ECSSD
Date: 4/24/00                                       Team Leader: Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Country Director: Michael Carter                    Sector Manager/Director: John Hayward
Project ID: 53830                                   Sector: Forestry
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan          Theme(s): Environment, Forestry, Public sector management
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [] Credit    [H] Grant        [] Guarantee      [] Olher [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 60.0
Proposed terms:     [ ]To be defined      [  Multicurrency   [X] Single currency
[XI Standard          [] Fixed            [X ] LIBOR-based
Variable
Grace period (years):            5
Years to maturity:               17
Commitment fee:                  %
Service charge:                  %
Front-end fee on Bank           1.0%
loan:
Financing plan: (US$m)
Source                             Local           Foreign             Total
Government                                               14.5                               14.5
IBRD                                                                       60.0             60.0
IBRD
Other (specify)                                                       _
Total:                                                   14.5              60.0             74.5
Borrower: Government of Russia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY           Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Y ear 5
Annual        0.5         11.5         22.5         18.0          7.5
Cumulative        0.5         12           34.5         52.5         60.0
Project implementation period:
Expected effectiveness date: September 2000           Expected closing date: March 2005
Implementing agencies: Federal Forest Service of Russia
Contact person: Dr. Evgeny P. Kuzmichev, Deputy Chief    E-mail: inlerdep@space.ru
Address: Pyatnitskaya, 59/19, Moscow 113184 Russia
Tel/Fax: (+7 095) 951-8720/(+7 095) 953-0950



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1)
*  Improved public sector management of Russia's forests, a key natural resource in three pilot regions
through policy reform, improved land-use management, protection and regeneration.
*  An improved enabling environment for private sector investment in forest utilization through training
in processing and business practices and demonstration in improved technologies.
*  Replication of policy reforms and improved forest management to other regions
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
These development objectives would be monitored by:
*  Increase in forest revenues collected following passage of improved leasing and financing regulations
*  Increase in forest area covered by improved fire and pest management systems
*  Increase in forest area covered by improved forest management and information management systems
*  Number of people trained in forest enterprise management and use of improved forest technologies
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19897-RU          Date of latest CAS discussion: December 23, 1999
The project supports key areas of structural reform identified as critical to restoring economic growth and
poverty reduction in Russia in the CAS including:
* strengthening public sector administration and governance essential for the management
of a market economy.
*  establishing an enabling environment for private sector development;
*  strengthening the institutional framework for enforcement of existing laws and
regulations for environment and natural resources forests management
The project would also increase the chance of success of the proposed Forest Risk Guarantee
facility, which is under preparation. The facility to be managed by the Guarantee Agency Investment
Unit with clearly established eligibility criteria for investors, would encourage investment in forest
industries by providing guarantees for investors against non-commercial risk. These risks would include
specifically arbitrary changes in the regulatory and policy environment, deprivation of property,
imposition of new taxes, limitations on foreign exchange transfers, and civil disturbance. By supporting
policy and regulatory reform the Forestry Project reduces these risks.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Russia has the largest forest resource of any country, comprising 22 percent of world forest area,
or 764 million ha (an area fifteen times the size of France). Russian forests account for 21 percent of the
world's standing timber volume and provide the largest land-based carbon storage in the world. In 1990,
forests and forest products account for 3 percent of GDP, 5 percent of industrial output, and 9 percent of
employment. Much of the resource is located in remote areas with slow biological growth and fragile
environments, especially in Siberia and the Far East. Russia's forests contain unique biodiversity; 85
percent of the 605 million ha east of the Urals are covered with closed-stand forests, much still unaffected
by industrial harvesting.



Page 3
Russia is a recognized leader in many areas of conservation, research and development. The
Federal Forest Service (FFS) is a government agency that has overall responsibility for forest
management in Russia. It has over 200 years experience in forest management and a well established
territorial structure, with 81 Regional Forest Committees, 29 national parks, and 1,740 forest management
districts called leskhozes. The FFS also runs a federal network of specialized organizations for particular
aspects of forest management, including inventory, fire protection, research and training. All these
operations are funded by the Federal budget.
Russia also has a well established forest industry, with forest enterprises ranging from timber
harvesting to advanced wood processing, pulp-and-paper, and furniture manufacturing, although some of
the technologies, especially in the pulp-and-paper subsector, were recognized as environmentally
damaging and inefficient even before 1990. A vast majority of forest enterprises are now private; some of
them have government shares in their mixed ownership structure, and the State Property Committees
under the regional administrations manage those shares. The federal Ministry of Economy sets sector-
wide industrial policies and supports selective restructuring programs through targeted investment
guarantees.
The Federal Forest Service, Ministry of Economy and Regional Administrations have been
working on reform of the sector for several years. Central planning policies led to management practices
which could not be sustained with the introduction of a market economy. As a result, many wood-based
industries are now isolated from economically accessible forests and overall roundwood harvesting levels
have fallen dramatically. This has brought economic and social hardship and increased pressure for
utilization of the more accessible forests, which are cheaper to exploit. There have also been increasing
institutional tensions between federal and regional authorities.
The sector has been affected by the economic downturn and confusion surrounding the transition.
Timber harvesting levels have declined drastically as domestic demand for wood products has fallen,
from 300 million m3 in 1989-90 to 80 million m3 in 1997. Despite the decline, harvesting practices
including clear-cutting over large blocks of land have led to soil erosion and loss of biodiversity. Output
from wood industries has also fallen dramatically, especially in the pulp-and-paper subsectors, though
there has been some recovery in 1999, following the August 1998 devaluation. While data are unreliable,
harvesting of non-wood forest products by local communities has increased during the period.
Forest industrial enterprises can be divided into two groups: logging enterprises, usually in small
communities of 5,000 to 10,000 people which are directly dependent on the enterprise for their existence;
and processing enterprises, in larger settlements, which are also directly or indirectly dependent on the
industry for their economic life. Most have now been privatized but are facing severe financial
difficulties. Some have the potential to be viable, with restructuring andl new investment; others are
poorly located and are unlikely to be viable under market conditions.
The World Bank completed the Russian Forest Policy Review (Report No. 16222-RU, December
1996) whose conclusions were endorsed by the Russian Government. This study, and further analytical
work undertaken by the Russian authorities since, identify several key constraints to recovery of the
sector.
a) Financial and Economic Viability. Forest management in Russia is financed from the general
budget, but allocations from the central government do not cover management costs. The local and
regional forest services have thus resorted to excessive "sanitary felling" (clearing forests ostensibly for
pest and disease protection purposes) since revenues from these are not channeled to the budget. Because
of lack of investment, forest harvesting and processing enterprises are using increasingly obsolescent and
environmentally damaging equipment. Resource taxes are low, but forest enterprises are burdened by a
heavy and complex taxation system, which impedes raising resource taxes in the present circumstances.
b) Regulatory Framework. The forest code provides guidcelines for forest management, but these need
to be adapted to the regions. More work is also needed on clarification of leasing conditions and on
criteria for certifying that forest users are managing the forest sustainably.



Page 4
c) Forest Management Plans. Forest land-use plans need to be updated to incorporate modem
concepts of landscape planning and ecosystem sustainability, participation of local communities and
integrated inventory and management information systems.  Regeneration needs also to be better
incorporated into forest management.
d) Forest Protection. Fire and pest incidence has increased dramatically since the transition, partly
because of increasing financial shortages and partly also because the present resource allocation system
does not provide sufficient incentives for fire and pest monitoring, prevention and management (as
opposed to fire fighting).
e) Forest Industry.  Forest harvesting and processing enterprises have lost both domestic and
traditional export markets, because of the economic downturn and confusion in the FSU countries
following the transition. Management practices have been poor, with insufficient market orientation and
equipment, and skills have deteriorated and need to be upgraded. There is under-utilized potential for
further processing and use of by-products. The sector is severely under capitalized and poorly qualified
manpower has deferred potential investors
f) Social Issues. Some of the most socially and economically vulnerable communities in Russia are
those in remote regions which depend on forests for their livelihood. Significant populations are at risk
owing to declining output and increasing unemployment.  Furthermore, forest enterprises have
traditionally been responsible for heating, education and housing, though these are now being divested to
the local authorities
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Implementing improved forest management practices throughout Russia's vast forest area will
take many years. In order to achieve results on the ground over a three to five year period it was decided
to limit interventions initially to three representative pilot regions. Since social asset management is the
responsibility of a different set of institutions, the municipal governments, it was also decided to focus on
improved forest management and utilization, and not to address through this operation the complex
political issues related to divestiture of social assets. The project would thus address sector issues (a)
through (e) outlined above, but on a limited scale. Provision has also been made to support improved
forest management in additional regions, should initial progress with implementation so warrant.
These regions were selected because they are representative of Russian ecosystems, and of the
different problems faced by the forest sector in the transition. In all three regions forestry has the
potential to contribute significantly to economic recovery. The regions also face different problems in
penetrating international markets, which can provide lessons for other regions. The pilot regions are:
(i)  Leningrad Oblast in European Russia, with a population of 1.7 million and a forested area
of 3.5 million ha, and a mixture of conifer (pine and spruce) and deciduous (birch) species.
Most of the area has been harvested and reforested. Main issues are protection and sustainable
management of forest areas of high economic and social value. The region is located close to
regional markets and exports of roundwood to Western Europe were about I million tons in
1997; production of industrial roundwood has fallen from 7.2 million m3 in 1990 to 1.6 million
m3 in 1997, but has now begun to recover. The forest resource, if well managed, has the
potential to contribute substantially to the economic recovery of the region.'
ILeningrad Oblast may not be financially eligible to borrow for Component B. An alternative region for
Component B in Northwestern Russia could be Vologda Oblast or Novgorod Oblast; both are heavily forested
regions, financially credit-worthy and also committed to forest reform.



Page 5
(ii) Krasnoyarsk Kray in Central Siberia, with a population of 3.1 million, a forested area of
49.3 million ha and a varied species composition, including pine, Siberian pine (cedar), spruce,
fir, larch, birch and aspen. Main issues are forest fire and pest control, and poverty alleviation
in remote forest communities. Krasnoyarsk has one of the largest forest resources of any
region in Russia. Harvested wood was 6 million m3 in 1997 compared with 25 million m3 in
1988; especially difficult has been the decline of regional markets in Central Asia,
Krasnoyarsk's location, far from alternative markets, and difficulties with adapting to the new
conditions. Increasing value-added in the forest sector woulc[ reduce the relative burden of
transport costs.
(iii)  Khabarovsk Kray in the Far East, with a population of 1.9 million and a forested area of
43.6 million ha with climax species including spruce, pine, fir, Korean pine (cedar), larch, and
birch. The main issues are fire protection, forest regeneration of burned over areas, protection
of unique biodiversity values, including the Amur tiger; development of wood and non-wood
rural industries and social issues in remote forest communities. Khabarovsk suffered a
catastrophic forest fire in 1998, affecting 1.6 million ha and has suffered both from the
transition and from the economic downturn in East Asia, its major market. Harvested wood
was 4 million m3 in 1997, 28 percent of 1988 levels; 90 percent of wood harvested is exported,
mostly as logs to Japan and pulpwood to Japan and Korea. Foirestry has the potential to make
a substantial contribution to regional economic recovery. Increasing value added is key to
success.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and for a detailed cost breakdown).
The project would have three principal components:
(A) Support to sustainable public sector forest management through policy reforms, improved forest
land-use planning and information management, improved forest protection, and improved
regeneration;
(B) Support through the regional administrations to forest industrial enterprise restructuring through
training programs in improved forest harvesting and processing technologies, modern
management and business practices, and improved utilization of non-timber forest products;
(C) Support to project management and coordination, including implementation, procurement, and
financial management and monitoring.
Activities would be carried out initially in Khabarovsk, Krasnoyarsk and Leningrad regions, and then
in a limited number of additional regions, depending on initial progress. There would also be support to
the Federal Forest Service. Components A and C would be financed through the federal budget, while
Component B would be financed through sub-loan agreements between the Federal Government and the
regional administrations.



Page 6
Table 1: Russian Federation Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Project Cost Summary
A. Component A: Sustainable Public Forest
Management
Component A: Policy Reform                       3.8       5.2%        3.3        5.5%
Component A: Forest Information and              5.8         7%        4.7        7.8%
Management
Component A: Forest Fire and Pest Management    19.8      26.8%       15.4       25.7%
System
Component A: Nurseries & Assisted Natural        6.4       8.6%        4.7        7.8%
Regeneration
Component A: Additional Regions                  2.8       3.8%        2.4        4.0%
Subtotal Component A: Sustainable Public         38.6     51.41%        30.5      50.8%
Forest Management
B. Regional Forest Enterprise Management
Component B: Technical and Management            23       31.2%       18.6       31.0%
Training
Component B: Non-Timber Forest Product           1.7       2.3%        1.4        2.3%
Development
Subtotal Regional Forest Enterprise              27.1      33.5%        22.1      33.3%
Management
C. Project Management & Coordination              2.9        4.0%        2.9       4.8%
Total BASELINE COSTS                              66.2      88.9%       53.4       88.9%
Physical Contingencies                            5        6.7%          4        6.7%
Price Contingencies                              3.2       4.4%        2.6        4.4%
Total PROJECT COSTS                               74.5     100.0%         60      100.0%



Page 7
Component A. Support to sustainable public sectorforest management (IJS$30.5 million)2
The project would support:
(i)    Development, and regional testing, of improved, market-oriented, forest policies and
regulations, through: (a) development of regional forest regulations, (b) improved and more
transparent forest lease and concession regulations based on sustainable forest management;
(c) improved forest financing systems including better resource valuation, forest resource
taxes and public expenditure management, (d) forest certification schemes, and (e) forest fire
insurance mechanisms (see Section 2 on key policy reforms below). The project would
finance consultancy services, training, workshops, and some equipment. WWF and the US
government are providing complementary assistance with certification and development of
regional forest codes.
(ii)   Improved forest information and land-use planning, through management modules
provided for (a) the three regional forest committees, (b) the forest districts, (c) the regional
forest inventory organizations, (d) fire and (e) pest protection organizations; and (f) regional
forest research. Improved information systems would also be supported at federal level, to
coordinate regional activities and facilitate transfer of experience across regions. Activities
would support better implementation of landscape and ecological planning, more efficient
targeting of forest protection, improved inventories, and transparency in financial and natural
resource utilization. Information would also be made more easily accessible to the public.
The project would finance equipment, training, consultancy services, and workshops.
(iii)  Improved fire and pest management, through approaches adapted to the requirements of
each region. The focus for all would be on prevention and early warning systems. In
Khabarovsk the focus would be on aerial and satellite monitoring and early detection, radio
communication and fire fighting units. In Krasnoyarsk the focus would be on ground-based
detection in priority areas to supplement aerial detection, on a rail-based unit for combating
large fires, on inter-agency coordination and on pest monitoring over 20 million ha. In
Leningrad the focus would be on monitoring from automized observation towers,, and on fire
management and fire retardant units. In all three regions there would be public awareness
campaigns, since humans cause 80% of fires. The project would finance equipment, training
and consultancy services. It would also build on pilot work in fire monitoring supported by
the European Union in the Lake Baikal and Moscow areas, and in improved communications
and technical cooperation in the Russian Far East provided by the US Forest Service.
(iv)   Improved regeneration, again through utilization of innovative containerized seedling
technology adapted to boreal forest ecosystems, and piloted in Khabarovsk (with the US
Forest Service) and in Leningrad (with Finnish assistance). In Khabarovsk the focus would
be on regeneration of the areas devastated by the catastrophic 1998 forest fires. In Leningrad,
once the technology is well established, the harvesting enterprises would meet regeneration
costs, as is regular practice. In Krasnoyarsk regeneration is incorporated into the forest
protection system. The project would finance equipment, training and civil works.
(v)    Replication of policy and management reform to other regions; the project would support
workshops to share the results achieved and lessons learned in the pilot regions. Depending
on project progress, it would also support, from year three, policy reform and improved forest
information and land-use planning, in a limited number of other regions. These would be
identified during review of project implementation.
2    All costs stated in the text are base costs, without price and physical contingencies (see table)



Page 8
In order to assure "monitorable" results on the ground, and because of resource constraints,
activities A (ii) and (iii) would be focused on 8 to 10 priority leskhozes in each region, which have already
been selected. (There are 30 to 50 leskhozes in each region).
Component B. Support to improved regionalforest enterprise management (US$24.7 million)
(i)The project would provide classroom and practical training for forest enterprise employees,
both in regional academic institutions and in selected forest enterprises, through short training courses
using a modular approach. Training would be in the following areas: business skills including
management, accounting, marketing, negotiations, banking and finance; product and service
development; forestry, including biodiversity, silviculture, management, harvesting, road construction
and forest economics; primary processing including saw-milling; secondary processing; wood
preservation, use of by-products; chain of custody analysis and certification; and supportive subjects.
Training would be coordinated in each region by existing academic institutions, including the
Khabarovsk State Technological University, the Siberian State Technological University (in
Krasnoyarsk) and the St. Petersburg Forest Technical Academy in Leningrad. Practical training
would be provided on equipment leased to pilot forest enterprises, which would also serve as models
for improved enterprise management. These would be located in the leskhozes supported through
Component A to demonstrate the benefits of improved forest management and utilization. These
enterprises have been selected for Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk (see Annex 2) , based on agreed
criteria. The project would finance consultancy services and forest processing equipment. The costs
of the training would be met by enterprise management:
(ii)    The project would also support piloting and training in improved technologies for utilization
of non-wood forest products, including processing of berries, mushrooms, honey, cedar nuts and pine
resin. Pilot enterprises have been selected in Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk. This activity would not
be supported in Leningrad region, where the principal non-wood use of forests is for recreation. The
project would finance equipment and consultancy services.
Component C. Project management and implementation services (US$2.9 million)
The project would finance the services of a project implementation unit (the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring) which would provide support to the core implementing agencies (FFS and
Regional Administrations) in project management, including procurement, financial and expenditure
management, project coordination and reporting and monitoring. The project would support consultancy
services and some office equipment.
The project would be implemented over a four-year period. The financing plan is indicated in
Annex 3 and in the cover page of the PAD.



Page 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
Within the overall objectives of sustainable forest management and supporting a more favorable
environment for private investment, the project would support:
(a) development and adoption of regional forest codes and regulations;
(b) development of market-based forest lease, concession and auction systems which are transparent,
allow for long-term strategic investments, are conditional on sustainable forest management, and
development mechanisms for using forest leases as collateral;
(c) improved financial management and forest resource taxation systems, including revision of resource
pricing (stumpage fees) and adaptation to local conditions, and improved forest management cost
accounting;
(d) mandatory and voluntary, third-party, certification of forest management;
(e) prototype forest fire insurance mechanisms;
(f) greater transparency in forest management; and,
(g) greater focus on public awareness and public information in forest management and protection.
3. Benefits and target population
Benefits include financial and economic benefits, as well as ecological, institutional and social
benefits. Financial benefits include increased government revenues from improved resource assessment
and taxation, more effective cost-accounting, better quality timber, higher export prices from certification,
and increased tax revenues as investors respond to a more favorable investment environment. Economic
benefits include increased timber value from reduced commercial timber losses from fire and more rapid
growth of forest from improved regeneration. Ecological benefits include those from better forest land-
use planning and inventory, forest biodiversity and landscape planning, conservation of forest ecosystems
through improved fire protection and overall forest management. Institutional benefits include those from
better training, financing and role-definition for the Federal Forest Service, more transparency in
planning, and better managed forest enterprises. Social benefits include increased employment as a result
of a more favorable investment environment, education and training, and better functioning of local
communities as a result of restoration of their economic base.
It is also intended that the reforms supported by the proposed forestry project will act as a catalyst
to the proposed Forest Investment Guarantee Scheme currently under preparation. The increased
economic activity that this scheme would generate constitutes an important indirect benefit of the project.
The target population includes the employees of enterprises and inhabitants of forest enterprise
communities who would benefit from increased employment, as well as enterprise managers and potential
investors. It includes the Federal Forest Service, regional administrations, and forest enterprises. It also
includes 'civil society', including NGOs and local communities, who vould benefit from the more
transparent forest land-use planning practices being supported.
The project should also have demonstration benefits for the other reglions.



Page 10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The Federal Forest Service (FFS) of Russia, with each of the pilot Regional Forest
Committees, would have technical responsibility for implementation of Part A of the project. A
Federal project director has been appointed and thematic leaders have been selected for each of the main
elements within the FFS. The Regional Forest Committees of the pilot regions would be responsible for
day to day implementation; regional project directors and thematic leaders have also been appointed. The
regional forest committees would have initial responsibility for preparing technical specifications for
goods and services specific to the regions under Part A to be provided, for participating in procurement
evaluation and for contract signature, and for routine reporting. They, and the Federal Forest Service,
would also be responsible as appropriate for receiving goods provided under Part A of the project.
The regional administrations of each of the participating regions would have responsibility
for implementation of part B. Specifically, for Khabarovsk the Committee of Economy, and for
Krasnoyarsk the Committee of Natural Resources would have responsibility. Directors have been
nominated. The regional administration would be responsible for preparing technical specifications for
goods and services to be provided for part B, for participating in procurement evaluation, for contract
signature and for routine monitoring. They would also be responsible for receiving goods provided, and
for assuring appropriate contractual arrangements for equipment to be leased for training purposes. The
arrangements for Leningrad have yet to be finalized.
Regional supervisory committees, under the chairmanship of the of the Deputy Governors,
with representatives from the Committees of Economy, Natural Resources, Environment, State Property
and others as appropriate, have been established and would meet at least every four months. They would
approve the annual work-program and budget , coordinate project activities between departments,
approve the membership of the regional bid commissions and keep the regional legislature apprised of
project activities. The members of these committees have already been nominated.
The existing inter-ministerial Supervisory Committee, under the chairmanship of the
Ministry of Economy and with the Federal Forest Service at deputy chair, would continue to assure
coordination at federal level and make key decisions regarding project policy. Other members include the
Ministry of Finance and the State Committee for Environment, and the deputy governors of the pilot
project Regional Administrations. The committee would meet at least every four months and more often
as necessary. (This committee has functioned effectively as the Project Steering Committee during the
two years since the project inception.)
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER), an existing Project Management
Support Unit in Moscow, would provide project management services in procurement, financial
management and project reporting, to the FFS and Regional Administrations. It would prepare
procurement packages and assist in evaluation and contract negotiations. It would maintain the Special
Account and Loan Account and make all payments, following validated instructions by the FFS and the
Regional Administrations, within five working days. It would report to the Inter-Ministerial Supervisory
Committee, and would be responsible overall for project progress monitoring and reporting. It would
submit Quarterly Project Management Reports to the Supervisory Committee and the Bank, and more
detailed analytical progress reports on an annual basis. These reports would also provide the basis for
including additional regions in the pilot project, depending on project progress. It would also conduct a
mid-term progress review during the second year, which would recommend redesign as appropriate. The
Russian authorities have already agreed to these implementation arrangements A negotiated final draft
Agency Agreement between FER and MOF, and Project Implementation Support Agreement between
MOF and FFS, in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, have been approved. Signed and executed
copies of these agreements would be a condition of effectiveness.
Regarding accounting, financial reporting and auditing the following arrangements would
apply (See Annex 6 and PIP for details). Quarterly budgets would be prepared by FER for the main



Page 1 1
project components and disbursements categories, and quarterly project mnanagement reports would be
submitted to the Bank. For component B, records would be maintained in the regional administrations on
project and counterpart fund expenditures and on equipment procured under the project. The FER would
retain a register on all fixed assets financed by the project. FER would prepare project financial
statements for the annual audit. The auditor would be appointed prior to project effectiveness.
FER would be responsible for compliance with the Bank's disbursement procedures. It
would initiate payments from the Special Account and from the Loan Account. Guidelines on
disbursement procedures for the Forestry Project have been prepared by the FER and approved by the
Bank, and would supplement the Bank's standard procedures and Loan Agreement.
A financial management capacity assessment of FER has beeni carried out and it has been
confirmed that FER has the capacity to implement the project effectively. An action plan and calendar to
strengthen further FER, regional administration and FFS capacity to manage and implement the project
effectively was agreed upon at Negotiations:
While component A would be financed by the Federal Govemnient, Component B would be
financed by the Regional Administrations, through subsidiary loan agreements to be signed between the
Regional Governments and Ministry of Finance, and Regional Project Implementation Agreements
between FER and each sub-borrowing region. Draft agreements have been prepared, and terms and
conditions discussed and agreed with the regions. Disbursement of funds under part B to a particular
region would be conditional on approval by the Bank of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Regional
Project Agreement for that region. It was agreed, furthermore, that if there were no firm agreement by
30& June 2000 of the willingness and eligibility to borrow of the regions presently identified, the
Borrower would begin formally to identify alternative regions. A date of six months after effectiveness
was agreed upon for presentation of subsidiary loan to the Bank from additional regions.
5. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Project management reports in English and Russian would be prepared every three months
summarizing project expenditures by sub-component and disbursement category, procurement
benchmarks and physical progress. These reports would also highlight implementation issues. Annual
progress reviews would also be prepared describing progress more analytically, and according to key
development indicators. These reviews would also provide the opportunity for adjusting project design,
or incorporating additional regions into the project as appropriate.  The FER would have overall
responsibility for preparing progress reports, and would provide assistance and guidelines to the Federal
Forest Service, Regional Forest Committees, and Regional Administrations in this regard. Quarterly
progress and annual implementation reports would be discussed in the regional and national steering
committees and sent to the Bank for review. These reports would also form the basis for supervision
missions.
At the end of the project the project authorities would prepare an implementation completion
report according to a format to be agreed with the Bank.
Draft key progress indicators are in the project design summary, and would be measured and
included in the annual project progress reviews. They would include:
(i) Regulations regarding improved leasing and financial management adopted;
(ii) Increase in level of forest revenues collected;
(iii) Increase in forest area covered by improved information and management planning systems;
(iv) Increase in area of forest covered by improved fire and pest communication, monitoring and
management systems;



Page 12
(v) Increase in area of forest regenerated with improved technologies;
(vi) Number of forest enterprise staff trained in improved forest utilization technologies and
enterprise management.
(vii) Procurement, disbursement, and management of the project undertaken according to an
agreed implementation plan, and within budget.
These indicators have been discussed with the project authorities, and have been designed to include
information which is in any case collected on a routine basis.(see Annex 1 and attachment to Annex 1)
The project monitoring and evaluation arrangements outlined above were finalized and agreed to
during negotiations. Key monitoring indicators (outcome and output) were also agreed upon, together
with quantified measurements for each indicator.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Several alternatives were considered, including:
(i) an Adjustable Program Loan (APL) approach, with the pilot project being the first phase of a
much larger phased lending operation;
(ii) Earmarked credit to forest enterprises.
It was decided that the first alternative was premature at this stage, given the macro-economic
uncertainties in Russia. Targeted credit to forest enterprises was also considered not appropriate; and the
broader crisis in the banking system would preclude a new credit operation. Public sector support to
training in business management and improved technologies for forest enterprises is justified to help
"catalyze" renewed investment in the sector. Surveys of potential investors have confirmed that the
uncertain, and changing, regulatory environment, together with insufficiently qualified manpower, are
the two main constraints to investment in the sector. The proposed project addresses these two issues.
The preferred alternative was agreed by the Bank and Borrower to be a modest sized project in
three representative regions with different ecosystems and social issues. The project could demonstrate
the advantages of improved forest management and begin to address key forest enterprise viability issues.
If successful, this pilot phase could possibly be followed by an APL; the size of the forest sector in Russia
would justify a larger operation.
The project should also substantially increase the likelihood of success of the Forest Investment
Risk Guarantee Operation under operation by supporting policy and regulatory reforms and better
enforcement, thus reducing proposed non-commercial risks.



Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned)
Sector issue                       Project               Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
IBRD                            Environment Management Project        U                S
(EMP)
GEF                             Biodiversity Conservation Project     S                S
IBRD (economic and sector work)   Forest Policy Review
IBRD                            Forest Investment Risk Guarantee    Under
preparation
Other development agencies
USAID                           Environment Policy and
Technology Project (Russian Far
East)
EU TACIS                        Forest Resource Management in
North West Russia
EU TACIS                        Lake Baikal Forest Project
UNEP                            Taiga Model Forest Project
Swedish International Development  Komi Forest Industry Project
Agency
Swedish Environmental Protection   Ecological Landscape Planning of
Agency                          Forest Land in Pskov Oblast
Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs  Finnish-Russian Development
Program on Sustainable Forest
Management and Conservation of
Biodiversity in North West Russia
(NWRDP)
EBRD                            Strategic Environmental
Assistance Karelian Forestry
US Forest Service               Cooperative Partnership in
Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
Experience with previous projects in general has indicated the importance of adequate counterpart
funding being made available, of procurement arrangements being simple and well understood, and of
clear implementation arrangements.  In the environment subsector, experience has indicated the
importance of co-ordination between concerned agencies, of adequate preparation and of public support.
An emerging issue, since the August 1998 financial crisis concerns also the credit-worthiness of the
regions (see Section F).  More specifically the Poland Forest Development Support Project
Implementation Completion Report June 1999 (the only forestry project completed in the ECA region)
summarizes three relevant key lessons: (a) in countries with strong forest traditions (like Poland and
Russia) the benefits of Bank assistance to the sector lie more in introduction of modern technologies and
institution strengthening than in expanding production; (b) the introduction of forest management
innovations must be accompanied by clear evidence of their  advantages; and (c) institutional
development activities need to emphasize economic and financial sustainability. Sector strategies
(Natural Resource Management East Asia Region) emphasize the importance of policy and institutional
reform and in-country consensus for this in restoring growth and sustainability. Russia country portfolio



Page 14
reviews emphasize the need for implementation readiness. All of these lessons have been reflected in
project design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Government has already agreed with the main conclusions of the Forest Policy Review. The
government has made a series of key decisions, which demonstrate in practical terms its commitment to
the project. The proposed Forestry Pilot Project is included in the 1999 program of the Duma. A high-
level interagency Project Supervisory Committee has been established and is supervising project
preparation and implementation under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Economy.
Furthermore, regional ownership of the project has been demonstrated by the willingness of the pilot
regions to borrow project preparation funds from the Federal Center for Project Finance. The project
implementation arrangements have been discussed at length and agreed to at federal and regional level.
The Regional Supervisory Committees were established by the respective Governors' orders. The 'PDL'
(Portfolio Development Loan) facility is also being used for project start-up activities, including financial
support to FER and preparation of bidding documents.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Russian authorities have confirmed that Bank involvement in the forestry sector will help
create a favorable environment for sustainable management and subsequent investment by the private
sector. It will help demonstrate to international agencies and private sector that the Government is
committed to improved forest management.
More broadly, support will demonstrate the Bank itself is committed to forest management and
conservation in Russia; Russian forests account for 22 percent of world forest area, more than any other
country, and the forests play a key role in carbon sequestration and contain fragile ecosystems. Support
for multipurpose sustainable forest management is one element of the Bank's 1991 Forest Policy. While
other financing agencies have provided assistance, none has been able to contribute to the broad sector
reform agenda. Furthermore, at the highest levels of management, the Bank is committed by 2005 to
increasing to 200 million ha the area of forest that is under independently verifiable sustainable
management. Russia must be included to attain that target.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
The economic analysis is summarized in Annex 4. A more detailed analysis is in the PIP.
Economic analysis is complex for a project of this nature, with a policy element and indirect benefits, and
in the uncertain macro-economic and governance framework which prevails in Russia. The project seeks
to implement reforms that would reduce uncertainties for investors in the forest sector and reinforce the
principles of sustainable forest management within a clear regulatory framework. The economic benefits
are derived from a number of factors but in particular from higher timber revenues as a result of better
forest management, resource assessment and pilot certification from commercial timber and non-timber
products saved as a result of reduced fire and pest incidence; and from higher forest enterprise
productivity as a result of the training in wood and non-timber forest products enterprise management and
technologies. There are also a number of less tangible benefits such as better conservation of biodiversity
and improved carbon storage. In a high-risk environment such as Russia's a number of sensitivity
analyses were carried out. The value of timber production would have to increase by less than US$ 1 per
m3 and the production and productivity by 1% per year in the three regions for the project to have an
ERR of 12%. The economic rate of return (ERR) (base case) is estimated atl 12% for the entire project.
2. Financial and fiscal impact analysis (See summary Annex 5)
Fiscal and financial impact analysis was carried out at a number of levels. Both Khabarovsk and
Krasnoyarsk regions are eligible to borrow (see section F.3 for Leningrad). The project comprises largely
investment costs; the incremental recurrent costs are marginal and would not pose a significant burden on



Page 15
the regional budgets. The project should, if successful, result in substantial fiscal benefits, from
increased taxes and rents generated by the project. These would include increased profit taxes from
higher export values and increased enterprise profitability, increased revenues from value added tax
(VAT) and sales tax, increased export taxes, stumpage fees, federal and regional taxes, and reduced
social security payments from  employment increases.  Incremental tax revenues for the federal
government could yield US$ 23 million per year for the federal government after 2004 and over US$ 16
million annually for the regional governments. Analysis also illustrated thai: net cash flows to the regional
governments, after repayment of the loan, would be positive.
3. Technical Analysis
Technologies draw on recent international experience and are adapt:ed to the needs of the specific
regions, including the size of the forest resource and cost-effectiveness considerations. For forest
protection, there is a special focus on monitoring and early detection to penrnit rapid fire suppression, and
also on public awareness for prevention. Support to fire fighting has been targeted to the areas most
vulnerable to fire. For regeneration the project draws upon recent international experience in boreal forest
ecosystems.  For forest inventory, planning and infornation systems an integrated approach to
information management has been adopted, permitting analysis of physical, financial and social data
together at different spatial levels, and supporting a landscape approach to forest management. Policy
reforms and pilot policy instruments (certification and fire insurance) also draw on recent international
experience. The approach to forest industry restructuring has been to respond to constraints perceived by
forest industries and investors with regard to development of training programs. These will also "twin"
Russian and international expertise through partnerships. Forest utilization technology provided for
training purposes responds to the most recent environmental and productivity standards, and is adapted to
site conditions. The project also supports integration between forest management and forest utilization,
often a key factor in productivity and sustainability.
Project technologies also build on, and will continue to benefit from, partnerships between
Russian and international forest and forest utilization authorities, including the US Forest Service (for
protection, regeneration, regulations and public awareness), Finnish assistance (for regeneration, training,
model forests and landscape approaches) and Canadian assistance (for model forests and participatory
approaches). It is also hoped that the project will attract additional donor interest in specialized areas of
technical assistance, training and technology development, however, if this does not materialize the
project will start on its own merits.
4. Institutional
A. Executing agencies
The Federal Forest Service has a well-established federal, regional and local structure, and over
200 years of experience in forest management in Russia. The principles of multi-purpose ecological
management are well understood. The difficulty has been with the need for adaptation of policies and
regulations to address the present conditions, budget shortfalls and a fi:nancing system that does not
provide the right incentives. Furthermore Forest Service staff, as well as forest enterprise staff, are
working with increasingly obsolescent equipment; technical and management skills also need to be
upgraded, as does the broader forest education and training infrastructure. The regional administrations
have undergone similar transitional difficulties and have not had the means to assist the timber or non-
timber forest products sub-sectors with improving their operational and investment environment.
Nevertheless the administrations and the agencies responsible for coordinating training   are well
established and staff overall are well qualified.
B. Project management
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring has a good record with providing project
implementation services to Bank-financed projects, and is regarded as one of the most effective PlUs. A



Page 16
financial and procurement capacity assessment has been carried out of the FER, and of the proposed
implementation arrangements more broadly. FER is providing project implementation services to this
project in addition to others. An action plan for strengthening further FER implementation capacity has
been prepared and agreed to ( see PIP).
5. Social
A social and stakeholder assessment was undertaken as part of the project preparation exercise
(see Summary Annex 12). The social assessment included an analysis of the different population groups
dependent on the forest sector as well as the local and federal administrations, industry representatives
and NGOs.
At the federal level stakeholders include the federal government agencies, academic community
and national and international non-government organizations (NGOs). At regional and local level they
include the Regional Administrations, regional research institutes, the forest enterprises and their
employees, local governments, local communities and NGOs. They also include town and city dwellers
who use the forests for recreation. During project preparation an analysis was made of the different
stakeholder groups; for several there are tensions between the objective of short term revenue
maximization, and longer term sustainable resource management. Surveys have also been undertaken of
forest enterprises (under this project) and of potential investors (under preparation of the Forest Guarantee
operation). NGOs are represented on the project preparation steering committees. NGOs are concerned
above all about environmentally sustainable forest resource management, as are the government agencies,
within the constraints under which they are working. Local communities are concerned above all about
employment opportunities and living conditions. Foreign investors are concerned about the investment
climate.
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category   A       B [x]   C
In accordance with the Bank's OP 4.01 on environmental assessment, the project has been given
environmental category rating B. (see environmental summary dated 30th April 1998).
Project environmental impacts would be positive. They would include improved forest land-use
planning, with better focus on ecological and biodiversity, improved regulations for sustainable fire
management, and testing of alternative approaches to certification. Improved forest protection will also
protect forest landscapes against fires, of which 80% are caused by man. Training in improved forest
utilization technologies, with higher environmental standards, will also reduce waste and damage from
forest utilization. Increased carbon storage would be a global benefit. A draft environmental assessment
has been carried out (see "Environmental Assessment" in project files) which is summarized in Annex 11.
It summarizes environmental benefits and risks, and recommends appropriate actions; in particular, all
bidding documents for goods to be procured through the project should include provision for the
appropriate environmental safeguards; the main risks would come with not adhering to existing
regulations. The FER would have responsibility for ensuring that these safeguards are fully complied
with, working with the Regional Environmental Committees as appropriate.
In accordance with Federal Russian Law 172/02, the environmental assessment of the project,
included public hearings in each region. The Committee of Ecological Expertise has completed its
review and informed the Bank of its assessment, which was supportive of the project approach..



Page 17
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The pilot project and accompanying measures of the FFS support increased stakeholder
participation in forest management in a number of ways through:
(i)  further implementation of the new Forest Code, in particular, public access to and consultation
on forest land-use planning (NGOs and forest enterprises); public access is key to increased
transparency in the sector;
(ii)  improving public education and awareness regarding forest management and use (NGOs and
local communities);
(iii)  regulatory reforms, certification and insurance, measures which are  likely to improve the
environment for investors and enhance employment opportunities (local communities,
investors and the government);
(iv)  upgrading the skills of the enterprise workforce and improving the work environment for
forest service staff (local communities, investors and the FFS).
b. Other key stakeholders:
The project also addresses a number of concerns of potential iinvestors as identified in the
survey through
(i)   clarifying leasing, subleasing and concession arrangements;
(ii)   supporting certification and fire insurance;
(iii)   upgrading forest enterprise workforce skills; and
(iv)   supporting rationalization of the tax and forest resource tax regime (though some of these
measures are outside the control of this project).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project does not involve significantly increased recurrent cost financing and does not involve
new staff recruitment. It would be implemented by existing institutions (the Federal Forest Service,
regional administrations and existing training institutions) with only implementation support (in
procurement, financial management and project reporting) provided by the project implementation unit.
The Federal Forest Service is long established and has substantial experience in implementing the
programs supported under the project. The regional organizations are also well established. Reforms
introduced are likely to be sustainable because they are in the interests of most major stakeholders. They
will lead to more sustainable forest management, increased revenue generation for forest management and
for the regional and federal budgets, increased employment for local populations, and increased
transparency in forest operations for enterprises and interested NGOs.



Page 18
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective                  _
Regional legislators face political constraints in  S    Regional administrations fully
passing regional forest legislation.                     involved in developing, testing and
disseminating new policies.
Financial situation of regions may deteriorate to  S     Only regions which have high credit
point at which they cannot repay loan.                   rating and good record of providing
information to Ministry of Finance
are eligible for in component B.
Private investors may not respond to improved   M        The project is designed to improve
investment climate in forest sector.                     this investment climate.
Enterprises may use equipment purely for        S        Agreement that the enterprise and
production purposes rather than for training             equipment will be used for training
purposes is included in the
equipment leasing contract
From Components to Outputs
Inter-agency cooperation in preparation of      M        Project implementation is in large
revised policies may be insufficient.                    part delegated to regions where
inter-agency cooperation is easier.
Training may not be provided to appropriate     M        Training is provided only to
people.                                                  appropriately qualified people on a
cost recovery basis.
There may be delays in procurement and          M        Procurement and project
inadequate project reporting                             management services have been
contracted to a project support unit
with a good track record while the
main implement agencies retain
responsibility for technical
implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                             S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The main controversial aspect concerns the eligibility or willingness of each of the three regions
to borrow for component B, given the volatile monetary and political climate. If by 30th June 2000 no
formal decision has been made regarding eligibility/creditworthiness of an individual region, the
Borrower would begin to identify alternative regions which meet eligibility criteria. In order to avoid
excessive delay, a date of six months after effectiveness was agreed as the final date for presentation of
subsidiary loans to the Bank from additional regions.
Despite the expected environmental and social benefits of the project, there is concern by civil
society, in Russia as in many other countries, about governance and lack of transparency in the forest
sector. The Russian authorities have frequently included NGOs in steering committee meetings at
national and regional level, the EA process has involved public consultations, and the  forest
inventory/planning component includes provision for public disclosure of forest management plans. The
ad hoc CEO forum chaired by the Bank president has provided an additional opportunity for Forest
administrations, industry and NGOs to share concerns. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Federal
Forest Service have also recently signed an alliance. The project provides a series of opportunities for
continuing increased transparency in the forest sector.



Page 19
G: Main Loan Conditions
Agreements Reached at Negotiations:
(i)    Procurement would follow the procedures described in Annex 6 of this document and in
schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement. Furthermore draft bidding documents for key contracts
for goods, services and works expected to be procured during the first 12 months of project
implementation have been submitted to the Bank.
(ii)   Project implementation, monitoring and reporting would follow the procedures described in
Section C.4 of this document and in Article 3, and Schedules 5 and 6 of the Loan
Agreement, and in addition to quarterly implementation progress reporting would include
annual in-depth progress reviews. A draft operating manual with structure and format
satisfactory to the Bank has been submitted to the Bank.
(iii)  Project financial management and disbursement would follow the procedures described in
Annex 6 of this document and in Schedule I and Schedule 7 of the Loan Agreement.
(iv)   An action plan and calendar for strengthening FER's financial management capacity
according to Annex 6 of this document has been agreed upon.
(v)    The content of the documents formalizing the project implementation arrangements at federal
level have been agreed upon. Final draft Agency Agreemenl:s between the MOF and the
FER, and Project Implementation Support Agreement between the FER and the FFS have
been submitted to the Bank, and both have been negotiated and agreed.
(vi)   Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Regional Project Implementation Agreements satisfactory
to the Bank have been prepared (as described in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement). It was
further agreed that no project expenditures under part B would be made to a particular region
unless the Subsidiary Loan for that region had been approved by the Bank and a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and Regional Project Implementation Agreement had been signed and
executed by the sub-borrowing region. (section C.4 of this document).
Effectiveness Conditions
(i)    Appointment of the project auditor.
(ii)   Signed and executed copies of the Agency Agreement between FER and MOF, the
Project Implementation Support Agreement between FER and FFS;
(iii)   Adoption of the Operational Manual by FER.
H: Readiness for Implementation
A project implementation plan, including a detailed procurement plan, has been prepared and
detailed project management and reporting arrangements agreed upon
Bidding documents for key contracts for the first year's goods and services to be procured have
been prepared.



Page 20
I: Compliance with Bank Safeguard Policies
The project complies with all applicable Bank policies, specifically those related to Environmental
Assessment, Natural Habitats, Water Resources Management, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples,
Involuntary Resettlement, Forestry, and International Waters.
JA- S .
Team Leader M jory-Anne Bromhead
,Vector Dector   vin "-aver
4rountry Di           erorMichael Carter



Page 21
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project: Performance Indicators/Logical Framework
Narrative Summary           Key Monitoring Indicators                Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sources
CAS-related Objectives        *. Forest public sector institutions     *  Federal and regional    *  Continued commitment of
*  Strengthening public sector           functions redesigned and adequately     government budgetary       government to agreed policy
institutions                         fulfilled                                process                   improvements
*  Support creation of enabling      *  Private investments increased in the  *  Forest investment      *  Macro-economic situation
environment for private sector       forest sector                            statistics                 does not deteriorate any
investments                                                                                              further
Project Development Objectives    *  Increase in Level of forest revenues  *  Regional FFS and       *  Federal authorities are willing
*  Improved public sector management     collected                               SCEP records               to permit flexibility in forest
of Russia's forests, a key natural                                        *  Records of public          regulation at the regional
resource  in  three  pilot regions  *  Area of forest covered by lease        hearings and EIA          level
through  policy  reform, improved    agreements with verifiable           *  Regional and federal    *  Regional legislators are fully
land-use  management, protection,    implementation of forest management      budget and tax records     involved in developing and
and regeneration.                    plans                                *  Enterprise annual          implementing improvements
reports                   in forest policy
*  An improved enabling environment *  Increase in forest area covered by     *  Regional government    *  Financial situation of regions
for private sector investment in forest    improved forest management and     and industry statistics    remains adequate for them to
utilization  through  training  in   management information systems                                      take loan
processing and business practices                                                                    *  Catastrophic climatic events
and  demonstration  in  ir.proved  a  Area of forest covered by improved fire                            do not occur
technologies.                         and pest management system                                         i Private investors respond to
improved investment climate
*  Replication of policy reforms and  *  Increase in forest sector private                               *  Project authorities remain
improved forest management to other    investments in three pilot regions                                committed to transparency
regions.                                                                                                 and accountability



Page 22
Narrative Summary           Key Monitoring Indicators                Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sources
Outputs
Al.
- Regional forest codes drafted      *  Regulations submitted                 *  Project quarterly      *  Adequate inter-agency and
- Improved forest management financing  *  Improved financial systems tested     reporting system           other stakeholders'
systems designed                     *  Pilot certification system tested                                   cooperation and participation
- Pilot certification studies completed  *  Pilot forest insurance system tested                            during preparation of revised
- Pilot forest insurance implemented  *  Regulations prepared and publicly                                 regulation and guidelines
- Improved leasing regulations           discussed                                                      *  Counterpart funding available
developed based on verifiable sustainable
forest management                    *  Improved information system and forest                          *  Procurement undertaken in
A2.                                      management plans in pilot areas                                   timely way
- Improved information systems designed  publicly discussed and accessible    *  FFS annual reports in
and installed                                                                    the pilot regions
. Forest management plans drafted,   *  Improved fire and pest management
publicly discussed and accepted          systems operational and publicized
A3.
- Improved fire and pest management                             . # of ha regenerated, nurseries
systems in place                         established, using new approach
A4.
- Improved regeneration systems adopted
B 1. Training of forest enterprise
managers and staff and equipment     *  # of people trained (managers and staff)                        *  Training completed in timely
supplied                                 .way
*  increase in employment, and in value-   *  Enterprise reports
B2. Support to non-timber forest         added of marketable of non-timber                              *  Appropriate people selected
products (training and supply of         forest products                      *  Regional employment        for training
equipment)                                                                       statistics



Page 23
Narrative Summary          Key Monitoring Indicators               Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sources
Inputs
Al. Policy improvements              *  Policy advisors, technical assistance  *  Procurement and     *  PIU undertakes procurement
contracted, and training               financial management      in timely way
A2. Information/inventory           *  Equipment purchased, personnel trained  reporting system       *  Regional staff adequately
involved in procurement and
A3. Fire and pest management         *  Personnel trained, equipment purchased                           financial decision-making
A4. Nurseries/regeneration           *  Works contracted                                              *  Enterprises agree on cost-
sharing arrangements with the
B 1. Training and supply of equipment to   *  Technical assistance and training                          regional administrations
forest enterprises                      contracted
B2. Support to non-timber forest     *  Equipment purchased
enterprises (training and supply of
equipment)



Page 24
Attachment to Annex 1
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
(cumulative from base year 1999)
Year 2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
1. Significant increase in forest revenue (percent)
Summary indicator, including                          0%     0      10%    15%i 21%
(a) Khabarovsk Kray                                 0%      0%    10%    15%    20%
(b) Krasnoyarsk Kray                                0%      0%    10%    15%    20%
(c) Leningrad Oblast                                0%      0%    10%    15%    20%
2. Significant increase in forest area covered by improved forest information and management
planning systems (thousand hectares)*
Summary indicator, including:                        00i  0  1,500  3 0 6AOG0  6J10
(a) Khabarovsk Kray                                   0    900  1,800  2,300  2,300
(b) Krasnoyarsk Kray                                  0    400  1,200  3,000  3,000
(c) Leningrad Oblast                                  0    200    600    800    800
3. Significant increase in forest area covered by improved fire and pest monitoring
management systems (thousand hectares)**
Summary indicatr, including:                            0  2,900  60  1400 11,400
(a) Khabarovsk Kray                                   0  1,700  2,000  2,400  2,400
(b) Krasnoyarsk Kray                                  0  1,000  3,400  7,700  7,700
(c) Leningrad Oblast                                  0    200    800  1,300  1,300
4. Significant increase in forest area regenerated with improved seedling technology (thousand
hectares)***
9Summary indicator, including:-                       0 0    0.0    O.0    3.2 L0 O0 6'.
(a) Khabarovsk Kray                                  0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0    4.0
(b) Krasnoyarsk Kray                                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(c) Lenigrad Oblast                                  0.0    0.0    0.0    1.2    2.4
5. Number of persons trained under Part B of the Project
Summary indicator, includig:                         10 00    600  1,590  2;630
(a) Khabarovsk Kray - Timber                          0     20    140    380    650
"t        "o  -- Non-Wood                        0     40    120    230    340
(b) Krasnoyarsk Kray - Timber                         0       0    120    350    600
el        "f -- Non-Wood                         0     40    120    230    340
(c) Participating. Region in European Russia -        0       0    100    400    700
Timber
6. Project management (loan funds disbursed in US$ million)
$4.6   $22.8g  S44.2  $56.0  $60.
Notes:
*    This indicator reflects 85% of the area of utilized forest land (under lease or short-term contract) in the pilot
leskhozes to be covered by the improved forest inventory under the Project. In optimal conditions, all 100% will be
covered.
** This indicator reflects 85% of the area of total forest land in the pilot leskhozes to be covered by the improved
forest protection systems under the Project. In optimal conditions, all 100% will be covered.
*** This indicator reflects the area to be reforested using the closed-root seedling technology under the Project.
Additional areas will be reforested in Khabarovsk Kray using assisted natural regeneration method.



Page 25
Annex 2: Project Description
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Introduction
1.   The proposed project would have three main components: (A) suppert to sustainable public sector
forest management through policy reforms, improved forest land-use planning and information
management, improved forest protection, and improved regeneration; (B) support through the regional
administrations to improved forest industrial enterprise management through training programs in
improved forest harvesting and processing technologies, modem management and business practices, and
improved utilization of non-wood forest products; and (C) support to project management and
coordination, including implementation, procurement, financial management and monitoring. Detailed
projects cost estimates are provided in Annex 3 and in the Project Implementation Plan.
Component A: Strengthening Forest Management (USS 43.5 million)
Background and Key Forest Policy Issues
2.      A number of policy actions in the Russian forest sector are required for the sector to move
towards financial and economic viability and social and environmental sustainability. They include: (i)
regional adaptation and implementation of forest laws and regulations; (ii) reform of forest resource rent
assessment and subsequent reform of forest industry taxation; (iii) reform of forest management cost
accounting and budgeting process; (iv) improved forest utilization planning; (v) an improved system for
forest leases, concessions and tenders; (vi) insurance of private investors against non-commercial risks
(fire insurance, political risk guarantees); (vii) development of market incentives for voluntary forest
certification.
3.      Some of them (such as forest industry taxation) are of macroeconomic nature and cannot be
addressed at a sector or project level. Others can be managed through investment activities and are
therefore in the focus of the proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project. Yet others (such as political risk
guarantees) are based on govemment actions supported by the Pilot Project, but are formulated thorough a
separate, private sector driven mechanism - the proposed Forest Sector Partial-Risk Guarantee Facility
that is being prepared in parallel with the Pilot Project. A more detailed outline of the key issues is
provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
Component Objectives and Expected Results
4.   Objectives.  This Component will support forest policy improvennents and sustainable forest
management practices in the three pilot regions of Leningrad Oblast, Krasnoyarsk Kray and Khabarovsk
Kray for development of new cost-effective models of forest management that are transparent to forest
users and local populations and are replicable in other regions. The reiorms would be extended to
additional regions in the later years of the project implementation.
5.   Expected Results. The new forest management approaches would include the following outputs
over a four-year project period in the pilot regions: (a) customized regional forest use regulations drafted
and publicized, (b) new forest management financing systems tested; (c) market-based certification
schemes prepared; (d) pilot forest insurance implemented; (e) attractive leasing mechanisms developed
based on verifiable sustainable forest management; (f) higher-capacity information systems designed and
installed; (g) sustainable forest management plans drafted, publicly discussed and accepted; (h) efficient
fire and pest management systems in place; and (i) cost-effective regeneration systems on burnt-over
areas adopted.



Page 26
Project Areas
6.   Thirty-two priority forest management districts covering about 22 million hectares in the three pilot
regions (from 14% of total forest area in Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk to 33% in Leningrad) were
designated as the project's focal areas. Project activities in improved forest inventory and planning,
integrated fire and pest management, and forest regeneration will be undertaken there in a coordinated
manner and will also support improved forest harvesting and management practices under Component B.
These priority areas are listed in Table 1 below and are also shown by corresponding numbers on Maps
IBRD 30244 (Leningrad), IBRD 30261 (Krasnoyarsk) and IBRD 30262 (Khabarovsk).
Table 1: Priority Areas in the Pilot Regions
LENINGRAD OBLAST             KRASNOYARSK KRAY              KHABAROVSK KRAY
Karelian Isthmus:            South:                        South:
1. Northwestem               1. Minusinsk                  1. Mukhen
2. Priozersk                 2. Irbeysky                   2. Sukpay
3. Roshchino                 3. Upper Mana                 Center and East:
South:                        Center:                       3. Gursky
4. Lisino                     4. Tayezhinsky                4. Ulch
5. Luga                      5. Bolshemurtinsky             5. Nikolayevsk
6. Gatchina                  6. Usolsky                    6. Sevemy
7. Kingisepp                Lower Ankara and North:         7. Vysokogorny
East:                         7. Teryansky                  Northwest:
8. Tikhvin                   8. Manzensky                   8. Evoron
9. Boksitogorsk              9. Gremuchinsky               9. Amgun
10. Volkhov                  10. Kodinsky                  10. Urgal
1. Kirovsk                    11. Lower Yenisey
Subcomponent A.1: Improvement of Forest Policy (USS4.0 million)3
7.       The project would support the Federal Government and regional administrations in developing
and testing, on a pilot basis, new or improved market-oriented regulations in forest management and their
regional implementation mechanisms stipulated in the Forest Code, to be complemented by the proposed
new federal legislation on forest utilization and other acts. Specifically, it will assist with: (i) improved
and more transparent forest lease regulations based on sustainable forest management; (ii) regional
adaptation of forest laws; (iii) improved forest financing systems including better resource valuation and
expenditure management; (iv) pilot forest certification schemes; and (v) pilot forest fire insurance
schemes. The project would finance consultants' services, training and workshops. WWF, IUCN, and
the US Government are providing complementary assistance with forest certification, public involvement,
and development of regional forest codes, respectively.
Improved Policy and Regulatory Mechanisms for Forest Utilization (US$0. 51 million)
8.       The project would finance international and national consultants' services, training, workshops
and publication costs towards development and testing of a suite of new federal and regional regulations
on forest lease, concession and auctions/tenders and drafting and submitting of the new federal legislation
on forest utilization. The following regulations would be drafted, published, discussed and their
implementation plans developed:
3    All costs below are investment costs with contingencies.



Page 27
(a) For forest leases: (i) principles for transfer of forest leasing rights and their use as credit collateral; (ii)
principles of issuing guarantees to forest lease collateral holders (lien holders); (iii) procedures and
criteria for registration, licensing and certification of leaseholders; (iv) samrple forest management plans
for leased forests; and (v) procedures for transfer of forest lease from bankrupt leaseholders.
(b) For forest concessions: (i) procedures for execution and registration of forest concession agreements;
(ii) sample business and investment plans for concessions; (iii) rules for plot allocation and assignment
for particular uses; (iv) procedures for forest production sharing; (v) forest fee calculation schedules and
procedures for their collection; and (vi) guidelines for maintenance and construction of forest roads and
social infrastructure.
(c) For forest auctions and tenders: (i) procedures for forest auctions; (iiO) guidelines for establishing
forest auctions floor prices; and (iii) rules for plot allocation and assignment for particular uses.
Regional Adaptation and Promotion of Forest Laws (US$0.08 million)
9.       The work for the development of the regional forest law has already been completed in
Khabarovsk Kray (with the assistance from the USAID grants) and the law enacted. A draft regional
forest law has also been prepared and submitted to legislature in Leningrad Oblast. Subsequent work will
concentrate on development of regional regulations. In Krasnoyarsk Kray, the work for the development
of the regional forest law is only starting (also with support from the USAID)I.
10.      Throughout the project implementation period, the FFS would wcrk with its regional branches
to: (a) revise and publish the draft sample regional forest code; (b) undertake nationwide consultations
with regional administrations to develop region-specific adaptations of implementing regulations; and (c)
launch a publicity campaign to promote public awareness and disseminate guidelines to investors for
these regulations. The outcome would be the regional forest codes and regulations drafted, harmonized
with federal laws, and approved in at least three pilot regions, and replication models available for 3 to 6
additional forest regions across Russia. The project would finance workshop and publication costs.
IUCN is expected to attract additional donor resources to support public awareness and public
involvement.
Improved Forest Management Financing, Accounting and Strategic Planning Systems (US$2.47 million)
11.      The project would finance consultants' services and workshop and publication costs towards
development of improved federal and regional regulations on forest rnanagement financing, cost
accounting and planning, resource valuation, and economic criteria for forest utilization planning. It will
also provide training and basic computer equipment to build capacity of strategic and financial planning
units at the Ministry of Economy (Forest Sector Department), Federal Forest Service's headquarters and
three regional offices. The following regulations would be drafted, published, discussed and their
implementation plans developed in the three pilot regions.
(a) For improved financial sustainability of forest management: (i) mechanisms for increased forest
revenues; (ii) rationalized and prioritized structure of forest management costs based on regional features
and long-term sustainable forestry development objectives; and (iii) mechanisms for accumulation and re-
investment of regional financial flows in forest management.
(b) For improved cost accounting and planning: (i) procedures for transparent regional systems of forest
management cost accounting which would be implemented on the basis of Forest Management
Information Systems under subcomponent A.2; (ii) revised regional norms of labor and material unit
costs for standard forest management activities; (iii) methodology for assessment of long-term efficiency
of forest management operations in the pilot regions based on the simulation of forest area dynamics; (iv)
alternative scenarios of sustainable forest utilization in the pilot regions within the recurrent cost



Page 28
constraints and their participatory analysis;  and (v) procedures for submission and approval of
expenditure items of the regional forest budgets within the adopted scenarios.
(c) For economic valuation of forest resources: development of new approaches for (i) revision of
stumpage assessments in the forest districts of the pilot regions under subcomponent A.2; (ii) assessing
stumpage based on market prices of processed timber products; (iii) establishing floor prices for forest
auctions, tenders and concessions.
(d) For increased efficiency of forest utilization: improved harvesting plans based on maximization of
forest revenue, to be piloted in several forest districts of the three pilot regions on the basis of Forest
Management Information Systems under subcomponent A.2.
Certification of Sustainable Forest Management and Use (US$0.44 million)
12.      The project would finance consultants' services, public awareness and study tour costs to
support the FFS Working Group of Forest Certification in the following activities: (i) development of
draft regulations and procedures of mandatory national certification compatible with international
practices and forest product market trends; (ii) training of trainers for key FFS regional and federal staff
in application of new forest certification procedures;  (iii) establishment and testing of a public
informnation system to facilitate access to mandatory and voluntary forest certification guidelines in one
region;  and (iv) promotion of market-based, third-party certification systems and facilitation of
partnerships between international buyers' groups and/or major consumers of forest products and self-
selected forest districts. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is expected to support the
implementation of pilot systems of voluntary forest certification in the vicinity of one or two major timber
harvesting and processing enterprises based in Leningrad Oblast or another region in Northwestern Russia
and possibly in Khabarovsk Kray, with the project supporting the systems through targeted investments in
information technologies and forest management improvement in the relevant leskhozes.
Prototype Forest Insurance System (US$0.52 million)
13.      The project would support the costs of international and national consultants' services and
training towards the development and testing on a pilot basis of a viable system of forest insurance
against fire and pest damage. The activities would include: (i) development of procedures for insurance
of leased forests; (ii) establishment of a prototype database of forest fire insurance in one of the three pilot
regions; (iii) development of a sample insurance package including a policy and insurance contract, a
model payment and premium schedule; and (iv) testing of prototype insurance procedures in self-selected
forest districts of the pilot regions.
Subcomponent A.2: Forest Mananement Information Systems and Improved Forest Use Planning
(US$6.5 million)
14.     In order to enable formulation of forest policy improvements under subcomponent A.1 and
their practical implementation at the federal and regional levels, the project would support improvements
in forest information management and planning in the three pilot regions that would: (i) develop better
knowledge of the forest resource base at a lower unit cost and increase overall cost-effectiveness of forest
management and protection operations; and (ii) enable a more accurate and market-driven valuation of
forest resources.. A secondary outcome would be (iii) the increased transparency of forest management
planning and forest utilization, which in turn would make the forest sector more attractive to investors.
15.      Under the project, improved forest information and land-use planning will be supported,
through provision of management information modules for (a) the three regional forest committees, (b)
the selected pilot forest districts, (c) the three regional forest inventory organizations, (d) forest fire
protection organizations, (e) forest pest protection organizations, and (f) forestry research organizations.
Improved information systems would also be supported at federal level, to coordinate regional activities



Page 29
and facilitate transfer of experience across regions. Activities would support better implementation of
landscape and ecological planning, more efficient targeting of forest proltection, improved inventories,
and transparency in financial and natural resource utilization. Information would also be more easily
accessible to the public.  The project would finance computer and inventory equipment, training,
consultants' services, and workshops.
Improved Federal Forest Information Management Infrastructure (US$2.04 million)
16.     At the federal level, the project would support harmonization of the national forest resource
database which would serve public and private sector decision-makers in the market economy. A key
issue for forest policy implementation is the development of satisfactory standards for unification of
forest management inventory, economic valuation and cost-accounting software, databases and
information flows between different levels of forest resource management (district - regional - national).
17.     The following activities would be specifically supported by the project at the federal level: (i)
development of requirements for a Federal Forest Management Information System; (ii) development of a
module on forest regulations, forest inventory and planning, forest fire and pest monitoring; (iii)
development of a document tracking and communication system within the FFS headquarters and
expansion of this system between FFS, its institutes, regional committees, (listrict offices and nationwide
information networks; (iv) development of a forest management cost accounting information support
system to be followed by pilot implementation in the regions (see next section).
Pilot Regional Forest Management Information Systems (US$4.46 million)
18.     Federal efforts would be complemented by activities in each of the three pilot regions, to
establish pilot Regional Forest Management Information Systems capable of serving a variety of users
and stakeholders, including government and research organizations, local population, and the private
forest users. Since regional conditions vary and current progress with FM] S development is different in
each region, the scope of project support would also be different, as reflected in Table 2.



Page 30
Table 2: New Forest Management Information Modules for the Pilot Regions
Modules                                   Leningrad    Krasnoyarsk   Khabarovsk
Regional Forest Committee                     1              1              1
Forest District (Leskhoz)                     11            11             10
Regional Forest Inventory Enterprise          I              1              1
Regional Aerial Forest Fire Protection Base   -              1              1
Regional Forest Pest Protection Center                       1 l
Regional Forest Research Institute            I              I              I
Estimated Investment Costs (US$ million)     0.88           2.22          1.32
19.  These modules would also provide for agreed levels of public access to forest information, so that
any interested person or organization could become a subscriber to the system and place queries to the
server via electronic (Intemet) access. Different types of subscribers would have different, and agreed
upon, modes of access (free of charge for the state agencies, a nominal fee for other users). All regional
modules will be implemented during the 3rd and 4th years of Project implementation.
20.  The Leskhoz Modules are most important to forest users (for developing forest management,
protection and reforestation plans at a detailed level) and will be implemented in the selected pilot
leskhozes (in each region two in the 2nd year, four in the 3rd year and five in the 4t year) and will be
preceded by the improved standard forest inventory at the scale of 1:25,000. The standards of the
improved inventory would be developed and agreed by the FFS and the regions during the first year. Use
of precision instruments would improve the quality of surveying and data sampling for parameters such as
fire hazard assessment, game and non-wood forest products inventory. This effort will be complemented
by the on-going bilateral Russian-Finnish project to develop biodiversity, recreational value, carbon
balance, etc. forest inventory parameters in Northwestem Russia. Technical assistance under the project
would also test biodiversity and carbon balance measurements as part of the verifiable forest inventory
process. The equipment would be provided to the Forest Inventory Enterprises, the Forest Fire Air Bases,
the Forest Protection Center and the regional Forest Committees during the 15' through 3rd years, and to
the pilot leskhozes during the 3rd and 4th years.
Subcomponent A.3: Improved Re2ional Forest Fire and Pest Management Systems (US$22.5
million)
21.     The project would support new, more cost-effective, approaches to forest fire and pest
management in the three pilot regions that would (i) provide basis for introduction of forest insurance
mechanisms (Al.5); (ii) increase the value of standing timber and attractiveness of the forest sector for
long-term investors - both of commercial (lease/concession) and "carbon offset" type; and (iii) prioritize
and, in the long run, decrease public expenditures on forest resource protection.
22.     Activities have been adapted to the requirements of each region. The focus for all would be on
prevention and early warning systems. For Khabarovsk, special focus of project support would be on
aerial and satellite monitoring and early detection, radio communication and fire fighting units. For
Krasnoyarsk, the project would support development of ground-based detection in priority areas to
supplement aerial detection, on a rail-based unit for combating large fires, on inter-agency coordination
and on pest monitoring over 20 million ha. In Leningrad, the project support would be primarily for fire
monitoring from automated observation towers, and for mechanized fire retardant units. In all three
regions there would be public awareness campaigns, since 80% of fires are caused by humans. In
addition, support (about $65,000) would be provided to the federal microbiological laboratory near
Moscow for improved applications in forest pest control. The project would finance equipment, training
and consultancy services. It would also build upon emergency forest pest management program



Page 31
supported by the Bank in 1996 in Krasnoyarsk, on-going pilot work in fire monitoring supported by the
European Union (TACIS) in Irkutsk and Moscow, and in improved communications and technical
cooperation in Khabarovsk provided by the US Forest Service and USAID.
Forest Protection in Leningrad Oblast (US$6. 76 million)
23.  This subcomponent was originally deemed relatively less important in terms of the risk and
spreading of forest fire and pest outbreaks and their impact on regional harvesting volumes. However,
the summer of 1999 has shown that this subcomponent is urgent for the Oblast in terms of the potential
damages uncontrolled forest fires could cause both to the residents and to the dense infrastructure
network. The activities included in the Pilot Project for Leningrad Oblast will be centered around this
aspect of forest conservation and protection, aiming at future replication in other Russian forest areas with
a long-term utilization background. The key regional activities would include:
(i) Updating of the ground-based early fire detection system will be implemented in the priority areas in
the southern and eastern parts of the region, to complement the operational network already in place in the
Karelian Isthmus. This work will include rebuilding of the 30 existing and construction of 50 new
stationary fire surveillance towers and purchase of 12 mobile surveillance masts. Tower construction and
erection activities will be started in the second half of the 2nd year, starting with the 11 pilot leskhozes.
Implementation of this system would serve to improve reliability and precision of early forest fire
detection throughout the region.
(ii) The inter-district mobile, mechanized units for combating forest fires will be equipped with the
necessary sets of fire-fighting equipment, with the staff trained to be aware of the rules and practices of
combating large-scale forest fires. This assistance will be provided to 4 most fire-prone leskhozes in the
south and east of the region. The procurement is planned for the 2nd and 3rd years of the Project.
(iii) The regional forest pathology service will also be strengthened and a forest fire and pest public
awareness campaign planned to prevent forest fires. The latter will include establishment of parking lots
in the focal areas of the residents' recreational activities, TV and radio spots, school curricula and
workshops, publication of leaflets, brochures and other printed materials, and equipment of posters etc. in
the critically affected forests.
Forest Protection in Krasnoyarsk Kray (US$5. 94 million)
24.  This subcomponent is extremely important in the Kray because of high incidence of catastrophic
forest fires and pest outbreaks. The key regional activities under the project would include:
(i) development of the regional forest fire and pest management strategy, including revision of fire and
pest procedures and regulations;
(ii) A system of ground-based fire detection would be designed and equipped in the priority zone of 600
thousand hectares as a cost-effective supplement to the overburdened aerial fire detection system. This
system will be based on effective use of radio communications and teledetection equipment distributed on
about 200 elevated points. The equipment for the majority of the observation points will be installed in
years 2 and 3 and necessary training to leskhoz staff will be provided by the supplier.
(iii) A network of 150 permanent forest pest monitoring sites will be desiLgned and established in the
priority zone covering 11 million hectares. Initial field, navigation and transport equipment will be
provided to the Kray Forest Protection Center to delineate and establish this network over the 4 years of
the project. Upon establishment, these monitoring sites will be transferred to leskhozes for maintenance
and information collection.



Page 32
(iv) A mobile, rail-based, mechanized unit for combating large forest fires will be equipped with about
20 units of heavy equipment which will be stationed in hangars near the rail siding at the Minino
Experimental Leskhoz and its 50 staff will be trained by the equipment supplier. Technical assistance
will be procured to develop interagency procedures for extinguishing large forest fires. This unit will
provided increased coverage of the area against catastrophic forest fires in the Kray.
(v) A fire management training facility will be established and equipped on the basis of the existing fire
retardant station at the Bolshemurtinsky Leskhoz. It will offer mandatory training in new and improved
fire management techniques, including fire prevention and prescribed burning, to leskhoz staff in all
leskhozes of the Kray, 400 fire jumpers of the Fire Air Base and to about 300 fire units of the forest user
enterprises. The facility will be equipped with the standard improved set of fire equipment for a pilot
leskhoz, plus demonstration units of heavy equipment from the mobile unit, and instructional facilities.
In years 3 and 4 of the project, after the improved techniques are sufficiently tested and a critical number
of leskhoz staff are trained, similar standard sets of equipment will be provided to the 11 pilot leskhozes,
so that the new techniques can be applied in various operational settings. The benefits will be an
estimated five-fold increase in efficiency and safety of fire fighting and post-fire management operations
directly applied over the territory of 11 million hectares of the pilot leskhozes. Staff from neighboring
regions will also be invited for training facility, eventually making it an interregional fire technology
training hub.
(vi) An intensive program of forest pest management training will be organized and delivered by the
regional Forest Protection Center during years I through 4 of the project for about 240 staff of leskhoz
level (all kray and neighboring regions) and for about 80 top managers of the regional forest committees
(for 25 regions in Siberia and the Far East). Specialized training equipment and materials will be
procured for the Forest Protection Center to support these courses. These activities would be closely
coordinated with the federal forest pest protection laboratory near Moscow also supported by the project.
(vii) A forest fire and pest public awareness campaign would be one of the most cost-effective elements
of the improved forest fire and pest management system. It would be targeted at the 10 pilot leskhozes as
well at the key population centers of the Kray. It would include TV and radio spots, school curricula and
workshops, publication of leaflets, brochures and other printed materials, and equipment of posters etc. in
the critically affected forests. The USAID is expected to contribute to this subcomponent with grant
funds (to be confirmed).
Forest Protection in Khabarovsk Kray (US$9.18 million)
25.  The project support in this Kray, which was most heavily affected by recent catastrophic forest
fires with significant direct losses to the economy, would be targeted at the establishment of a potent and
cost-effective forest fire detection and prevention system. The key regional activities under the project
would include:
(i) Implementation of a region-wide satellite forest fire monitoring system will be carried out by
providing targeted assistance to the regional Aerial Forest Fire Protection Base in conjunction with related
Management Information Module activities under subcomponent A.2 (see above). The key elements of
the system, including GPS equipment and necessary software and training would be provided during the
3rd year of the project - after the completion of the Kray-wide fire management GIS (also done under
subcomponent A.2).
(ii) Establishment of 12 mobile mechanized fire fighting units in the most fire-prone areas will be
supported through provision of equipment and training to the 10 priority leskhozes. The justification for
this public investment is that such units would provide an effective fire management tool to protect
valuable forests from major fires during the next 5-7 year period when most forest harvesting companies
are weak and cannot effectively undertake this function. With the development of long-term lease
agreements and strengthening of the forest industry this function would be gradually transferred to the



Page 33
users themselves. The equipment would be purchased and installed over a 24-month period starting from
the middle of the I st year.
(iii) An integrated inter-agency system of radio communications would be designed with the assistance
provided to one priority leskhoz and an adjacent protected area by the US; Forest Service and USAID
(through WWF) even before the project is launched. The project will equip the remaining leskhozes in
the priority areas with the necessary radio equipment and train their staff. The main benefit would be
improved coordination of limited fire fighting resources among FFS and other regional agencies in the
Kray.
(iv) A public awareness campaign would be one of the most cost-effective elements of the improved
forest fire management system because up to 80% of all fires are caused by people. It would be targeted
at priority leskhozes as well at the key population centers. It would include TV and radio spots, school
curricula and workshops, publication of leaflets, brochures and other printed, materials, and equipment of
posters etc. in the critically affected forests. WWF is expected to contribute with complementary grant
funds from the USAID and other sources.
Subcomponent A.4: Improved Regional Forest Regeneration Systems (JS$7.4 million)
26.      The project would support minimum critical investment in the three pilot regions to help
convert their seed and seedling production and nursery operations into financially autonomous operations
which are demand-oriented and capable of servicing the growing needs of long-term forest users.. The
project would finance the costs of equipment, training and civil works for improved forest regeneration
practices in Khabarovsk and Leningrad, using innovative containerized seedling technologies adapted to
boreal forest ecosystems. In Khabarovsk, the focus would also be on regeneration of the areas devastated
by the catastrophic 1998 forest fires. In Krasnoyarsk, forest regeneration activities supported by he
project would be integrated into the forest protection system at the pilot leskhoz level.
Forest Regeneration in Leningrad Oblast (US$4. 0 million)
27.      The project will finance tumkey delivery of equipment and personnel training for three
containerized seedling production nurseries (Gatchina, Tikhvin, and Lisino). This public investment will
serve to develop a cost-effective reforestation model yielding improved seedlings with a higher survival
rate from the start of its operation. Reforestation would gradually progress to become a profitable
business serving forest lease holders.
Forest Regeneration in Krasnoyarsk Kray (US$0.83 million)
28.  The project will finance additional equipment (tractors, stump pullers, ploughs, etc.) for 11 priority
leskhozes to undertake assisted natural regeneration as an integral part of the improved forest fire and pest
protection strategy (see subcomponent A.3) which will be tested in these pilet leskhozes and subsequently
implemented region-wide.
Forest Regeneration in Khabarovsk Kray (US$3.87 million)
29.  The project will finance equipment of 9 mechanized units for assisted natural regeneration in the
most critically burnt areas of forests surrounding the priority leskhozes in the North-East, East and
Central project areas. The benefit of this activity over the project life (years 2 through 4) would be
improved regeneration and protection of about 400 thousand ha of forest areas that had been irreversibly
deforested by recent catastrophic fires.



Page 34
30.     The second element will be the provision of equipment and training to two nurseries
(Nekrasovsky and Gursky) for production of closed-root seedlings. This investment would initially
provide more reliable seedling material with high survival rates, for reforestation of fire damaged areas.
It would eventually operate on a cost-recovery basis servicing the needs of forest leaseholders.
Subcomponent A.5: Replication of Policy and Management Reform (US$3.1 million)
31.  The project would finance workshops to share and disseminate the results achieved in the pilot
regions and would support replication of forest policy reform and forest management information
activities. Depending on project progress, it would support, from Year 3, technical assistance in policy
reform activities (see subcomponent A.1) and technical assistance and equipment for improved forest
information and land-use planning (see subcomponent A.2) in a limited number of additional regions.
These would be identified during review of early project implementation and selected on the basis of the
size and importance of their forest resources and the level of commitment to policy and management
reforms in accordance with the overall Project objectives.



Page 35
Component B: Support to Improved Regional Forest Enterprise Management
(US$ 27.9 million)
Introduction
Subcomponent B.1: Technical and Management Training: Forest Enterprises
1. The overall objective is to improve the environment for private sector investment through addressing
the issue of insufficiently qualified manpower, one of the main constraints identified by potential
investors. The project would support training in modem management and professional practices in forest
industrial enterprises.   Training would be provided to forest enterprise staff, including class-room
training by regional educational institutes, and practical training in selected pilot enterprises. Topics
would include improved harvesting, modem management and business practices supported by appropriate
technologies; and improved harvesting, production and marketing of non-timber forest products, with
technical assistance and appropriate technologies.
2. Training would be demand-driven and provided on a cost recovery basis, with qualified trainees
selected by forest enterprise management. The pilot, or "learning by doing" nature of all these activities
will be emphasized. A similar approach will be adopted in each region, but with modifications based on
the variation of natural and socio-economic conditions. A detailed background description of forest
industries in each region, together with a more detailed description of the component activities, is
provided in the PIP.
Subcomponent B.2: Non-Wood Forest Product Development
3. Non-wood forest products play an important role in the livelihood of rural communities in
Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk. Within a framework of sustainable resource rnanagement, this component
would provide training and demonstration in improved harvesting, processing and marketing of non-
timber forest products in these two regions. Training would be organized along similar lines to training
for timber products, with class-room training provided in existing institutes, practical training provided
in selected pilot enterprises, and equipment provided for demonstration and training purposes.
4. Component B activities are here described for each region separately, since each will be the subject of
a separate sub-loan agreement. Furthermore each will be implemented separately, by the respective
regional administrations, though with support from the Project Management Unit, the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring.
Component B: Leningrad Oblast (US$ 9.3 million)
5. More than 70% of wood exports from the region are to Western Europe, countries which demand
increasingly high standards regarding environmentally sustainable forest harvesting and processing
methods. The project would support training in ecologically sustainable forest utilization, management
and export marketing, through:
(a)   Training  in forestry and wood industries, emphasizing forest products' marketing,
management and business skills, harvesting and wood processing technologies, and
forest certification and chain-of-custody approaches to penetrate international western
markets; and
(b)   Provision of technology and equipment for training purposes, including a saw milling
line with drying capacity attached to a pilot enterprise where practical training would be
carried out, aimed at demonstrating the potential for adcling value to the production



Page 36
process, utilizing the wood wastes for energy, and diminishing the environmental
impacts of wood processing.
6. Training would include the whole production chain, including:
*  business skills including business economics, management, accounting, marketing, banking
and finance, negotiations, products and service development;
*  technical skills in forestry, specifically forest management and certification, harvesting,
conservation of forest ecosystems and bio-diversity, regeneration and management planning;
*  technical skills in timber processing including saw  milling and panel manufacturing,
packaging, joinery and furniture manufacture;
*  market research, marketing and chain of custody analysis: and,
*  supportive subjects including foreign technical terms, wood technology, quality control and
repair and maintenance.
7. The objective would be to change forest management and processing from a focus on maximizing
production to market orientation. For example, training in the chain-of-custody approach is an efficient
measure to penetrate major international markets in Western Europe and to develop forest certification
(supported under Component A).
8. Technical assistance would be provided in training of trainers. In support to-this training of trainers,
detailed training plans and curricula would be prepared on the basis of a training needs assessment, to be
carried out at the start of implementation.. The training plan would comprise tailor-made modules for
different target groups. About 300 people would be trained annually after an initial start-up period in
years 1 and 2.
9. Classroom training would be organized at the St. Petersburg Forest Technical Academy, with the
participation of the Lisino Forestry College and Mesenski Forestry School. Practical training would be
carried out in a pilot enterprise to be selected on the following criteria: submission of an adequate
business plan demonstrating economic viability in the long term, willingness to invest in the plant site and
add additional production lines, willingness to act as a training oriented enterprise in collaboration with
the existing educational institutes and other regional stakeholders, and a willingness to commit to
addressing the skill gaps of employees at all levels. The pilot enterprise would act also as a training
center for enterprises in other northwestern regions of Russia.
10. The pilot enterprise will be located close to the existing educational institutes, which would act as
focal points for classroom training. Equipment provided for training would focus on modem,
environmentally-friendly saw milling technologies.
11. Technical supervision and coordination of the component would be with the Forest Industrial Timber
Committee. Equipment purchased for harvesting and processing would be the property of the State
Property management committee and would be leased to the pilot enterprise. Leasing contracts would be
commercially based and would cover equipment depreciation and interest. Training would be paid for by
the participating enterprises. The regional administration would have overall responsibility for project
loan repayment in the Leningrad Oblast.



Page 37
Component B: Krasnoyarsk Kray (US$7.07 million)
12. Krasnoyarsk has the largest forest resource of any region in Russia. Timber and non-wood forest
products play an important role in growth in the region. Exports were previously to Central Asia, but
with the economic decline in these newly independent countries, and phasing out of transport subsidies,
export of low value, bulky round-and sawn wood has faced increasing difficulties. The project would
assist the industry with acquiring the necessary business and technical skills to add value to processing,
and to adapt to and expand in new export markets including China and the Far East.
13. The project would provide training and support for:
* sustainable  forest  management  and  certification,  environmientally-sensitive  harvesting,
conservation of bio-diversity, regeneration and landscape ecological rnanagement planning;
* improved, more environmentally-friendly processing technologies including saw milling and panel
manufacture, packaging, joinery and fumiture manufacture;
* training and demonstration in forest harvesting and processing technologies;
* training and demonstration in improved non-wood forest produclts harvesting, processing and
marketing; and
* support to development of business and marketing plans, for timber and non-wood forest
enterprises.
14. The project would also provide training in supportive subjects including foreign technical language,
wood technology, quality control and repair and maintenance.
15. The objective, as in Leningrad, would be to change management, production and processing from a
focus on production to market orientation. The non-wood forest products training activities have in
addition a social element; the communities most dependent on income from non-wood forest products are
generally the poorest rural communities of the province, and the system of organization for non-wood
forest products processing and marketing has broken down since the end of the Soviet system.
16. Detailed training plans and curricula would be prepared on the basis of a needs' assessment, to be
carried out at the beginning of the project. The training plan would comprise tailor-made modules for
different target groups. It is estimated that, after the first year and a half, training could be provided for
about 110 higher level staff and 140 vocational level staff annually for forest utilization and business
methods, and up to 110 people annually in improved utilization of non-wood forest products. Costs are
estimated at US$ 5.16 million for the timber component, and US$ 1.91 million for the non-timber product
component.
17. Training would be coordinated by existing educational establishments, specifically the Siberian State
Technological University and its field stations (one of which includes the Piredivinskiy Lespromkhoz),
Forestry Colleges in Divnogorsk, Kansk, Krasnoyarsk, Morozov Investment Center and the Sukachev
Forest Research Institute. Practical training would be provided in three pilot enterprises which have been
selected according to criteria including existence of viable business plans, ownership structure,
commitment to act as a pilot for training on a cost-recovery basis within the project, and commitment to
development of the whole production chain. These enterprises also represent different social and
economic conditions within the region. They are located in lezkhozes which will be a focus of improved
forest management activities under component A. The enterprises are indicted on the attached map 30261
and described in more detail in the PIP. They include:



Page 38
(i)   Ilinskiy Lespromkhoz in Birilusskiy district 200 km north west of Krasnoyarsk city, with
a capacity of harvesting of 150,000 M3, a present harvest of 60,000 m3 and about 600
employees. This enterprise currently focuses on harvesting and saw milling. Production is
recovering as exports to China have started; and
(ii)   Shiverskiy Lespromkhoz in Boguchanskiy district 600 km north-east of Krasnoyarsk
city, employs about 540 people and focuses on harvesting, with some saw milling. Current
production is 200,000 m3 but the enterprise has a capacity of 400,000 m3. Half the volume
harvested is exported, mostly to central Europe, after processing at another enterprise.
(iii)   Predivinskiy Lespromkhoz 140 km north of Krasnoyarsk city, with a capacity of
harvesting of 750,000 m3 and for sawnwood production of 100,000 m3. It employs 1055
people and it is the focal point for the Siberian State Technological University in practical
training in forest harvesting and wood processing.
18. Two pilot enterprises and two regional associations dealing with non-timber forest products (berries,
mushrooms, honey, cedar nuts and oils) have been selected using criteria similar to that for timber
enterprises (see PIP for details).
19. Equipment to be provided to the pilot wood processing enterprises would include harvesting and
milling equipment, to be used for training and demonstration in improved, more environmentally-
friendly approaches to wood utilization. Equipment to be provided to the non-timber forest products
enterprises would include harvesting, processing and packaging equipment.
20. The regional administration would have responsibility for project loans repayment in Krasnoyarsk
Kray. Technical supervision and coordination of the component would be with the Committee for Forest
Industries. Equipment would be the property of the State Property Management Committee and would
be leased to the pilot enterprises. Leasing contracts would be commercially based and account for
depreciation and interest payments. Training would be paid for by the participating enterprises.
Component B: Khabarovsk Kray (US$ 12.6 million)
21. The region exports a substantial proportion of its harvest, mostly round-wood, to Japan. There is
potential for increasing exports to other far eastern markets such as China, and increasing value-added
from timber processing. The project would support:
(i) Training in improved technologies and business practices for timber industries;
(ii) Training in improved harvesting, utilization and marketing of non-wood forest products.
22. Specifically the project would provide training in:
(i)    business skills including business economics, management, accounting, marketing,
banking and finance, negotiations, products and service development for the main
production chains;
(ii)   technical skills in forestry, specifically forest management and certification, harvesting,
conservation of forest ecosystems and bio-diversity, regeneration and forest management
planning, and improved forest road maintenance;
(iii)  skills in modem  wood processing including saw-milling and panel manufacture,
packaging, joinery and furniture manufacture;
(iv)   market research, marketing and chain of custody analysis;



Page 39
(v)    supportive subjects including international terminology, wood technology, quality
control, repair and maintenance, mathematics and statistics and basic environmental studies.
(vi) training in utilization of non-wood forest products including harvesting and processing for
products, including berries, mushrooms, honey, upland fern, cedar nuts etc.
23. The objective would be to change management, production and processing from a focus on
production to a market orientation. The non-wood forest products training activities have in addition a
social element; the communities most dependent on income from non-wood forest products are generally
the poorest rural communities of the province, and the system of organization for non-wood forest
products processing and marketing has broken down since the end of the Soviet system.
24. Technical assistance would be provided for training of trainers in the areas outlines above. The
educational modules will be tailor-made to various target groups to be trained. Training would be based
on an educational plan and training needs' assessment. It is estimated that after the first year about 120
higher level staff and 130 vocational level staff would be trained annually in timber activities. For non-
timber activities, a limited number of managers and experts would be trained, but up to 110 people
annually would be trained in short term courses in modem improved harvesting and processing methods.
Costs are estimated at US$ 11.5 million for the timber and US$ 1.07 million for the non-timber activities.
25. Training would coordinated through the Khabarovsk State Technical University, which would also
carry out classroom training with its affiliated institutes. Practical training would be carried out in
selected pilot enterprises.  Selection criteria have included the existence of viable business plans,
ownership criteria, a commitment to act as pilots for training purposes for all level employees on a cost-
recovery basis, to develop integrated production chains, and sensitivity towards the needs of rural
population and communities.
The enterprises are indicated on map 30262 and include:
(i) For timber, the Sredneamgun Lespromkhoz, located 600 km north-east of Khabarovsk, with
317 employees and a present production of 68,000 m3 of logs compared with an annual
allowable cut of 290,000m3. The second enterprise, still to be confirmed, is the Mukhenski
lespromkhoz, 150 kms south-east of Khabarovsk;
(ii) For non-wood forest products, the pilot enterprises include the Forest Products enterprise (17
full-time plus 1500 part time employees); the Nanny regional consumer society (41 fulltime
plus 200  seasonal employees), the Fauna enterprise (20 full time plus 300 seasonal
employees); the Amur Pivo enterprise (5 fulltime plus 100 part time employees), and the
Sovgavan enterprise (54 fulltime staff). These enterprises produce berries, juices, ferns,
honey, and mushrooms. The enterprises are supported by a local NGO, the Far East
Association for Non-Timber Forest products, which would help to coordinate training
programs.
26. The project would provide specialized modem equipment for training and demonstration purposes for
milling of timber and for packing, processing, and storage of non-timber forest products.
27. The regional administrations would have overall responsibility for loan repayment; Technical
supervision and coordination of the component would be with the Committee for Economy. Theoretical
training would be organized through the Khabarovsk State Technical University, with participation by
several other institutes. Equipment purchased for harvesting and processing would be the property of the
State Property management committee and would be leased to the pilot enterprises. Leasing contracts
would be commercially based and would cover depreciation and interest. Training would be paid for by
the participating enterprises.



Page 40
Component C: Project Management and Coordination Services (US$ 2.9 million)
1. The project would finance incremental project activities at an existing project management unit, the
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER). The FER would provide project management and
coordination services to the Federal Forest Service and regional administrations. The FER has
substantial experience in managing other World Bank financed projects. Procurement and financial
management capacity assessments of the FER have been carried out and it has been confirmed that the
organization is qualified to provide these services.
2. As indicated in Section C. 4 of the main text, the FER would assist the Federal Forest Service,
Regional Forest Committees and Regional Administrations with preparation of bidding documents for
procurement of all goods and services, with contract award procedures, and with administrative
procedures for delivery of goods. It would make all payments on behalf of FFS and the Regional
Administrations and would manage all project-related expenditures and the Special Account. It would
organize the annual audit of project expenditures. FER would have overall responsibility for project
implementation reporting, monitoring and evaluation. It would also be the Secretariat of the inter-
ministerial steering committee and would highlight implementation issues and propose solutions. It
would also, together with the implementing agencies, seek to ensure rapid cross-regional transfer of
project experience and lessons learned.
3. To complement the existing FER team, specialized mostly in financial management, financial
analysis, procurement, and general project management and monitoring, the project would finance the
services, full time, of two project officers, one technical adviser, one procurement specialist and one
secretary/ translator. In order to benefit from the broader support and supervision that FER as an
institution can provide, the project would also finance one-fifth of the overall budget of FER; they are
currently responsible for implementation of five World Bank financed projects.
4. The project would also finance short-term consultancy services to assist with review and drafting of
technical specifications for procurement of particular goods and services, and to assist with in-depth
project implementation reviews.



Page 41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies (IS$)
Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
2000         2001         2002        2003        Total
A. Component A: Sustainable Public Forest Management
Component A: Policy Reform                                880,000     1,314,000    1,099,000   740,000    4,033,000
Component A: Forest Information and Management          1,740,000     1,563,000    2,143,000   1,055,000    6,501,000
Component A: Forest Fire and Pest Management System     2,844,000    11,408,000    5,269,000   2,992,000   22,514,000
Component A: Nurseries & Assisted Natural Regeneration      8,000    2,455,000    3,858,000   1,084,000    7,405,000
Component A: Reserve Region                                     -    1,526,000    1,564,000          -   3,089,000
Subtotal Component A: Sustainable Public Forest             5,473,000    18,266,000   13,933,000   5,872,000   43,543,000
Management
B. Regional Forest Enterprise Restructuring
Coimiponer,t B: Technlical arnd Management Training     5,I20,gn     14,075,000    5,?64,000   697-000   25,957,000
Component B: Non-Timber Forest Product Development        889,000     1,023,000          -           -    1,912,000
Subtotal Regional Forest Enterprise Restructuring           6,309,000    15,098,000    5,764,000   697,000   27,868,000
C. Project Management & Coordination                         740,000       758,000     777,000     797,000    3,072,000
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           12,522,000    34,123,000   20,474,000   7,365,000   74,484,000



Page 42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(US$)                       Foreign     Base
Local         Foreign          Total       Exchange   Costs
A. Component A: Sustainable Public Forest Management
Component A: Policy Reform                                       551,000       3,268,000      3,819,000          86        6
Component A: Forest Information and Management                 1,121,000       4,722,000      5,843,000          81        9
Component A: Forest Fire and Pest Management System            4,386,000      15,385,000     19,771,000          78       30
Component A: Nurseries & Assisted Natural Regeneration         1,654,000       4,731,000      6,385,000          74       10
Component A: Reserve Region                                      400,000       2,380,000      2,780,000          86        4
Subtotal Component A: Sustainable Public Forest Management           8,112,000      30,486,000     38,598,000          79       58
B. Regional Forest Enterprise Restructuring
Component B: Technical and Management Training                 4,382,000      18,585,000     22,966,000          81       35
Component B: Non-Timber Forest Product Development               319,000       1,417,000      1,736,000          82        3
Subtotal Regional Forest Enterprise Restructuring                    4,701,000      20,002,000     24,702,000          81       37
C. Project Management & Coordination                                                 2,923,000      2,923,000         100        4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                   12,813,000      53,411,000    66,224,000          81      100
Physical Contingencies                                         1,019,000       4,005,000      5,024,000          80        8
Price Contingencies                                              642,000       2,593,000      3,235,000          80        5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    14,474,000      60,009,000    74,483,000          81      112



Page 43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
2000         2001           2002            2003         Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                       67,000       812,000        351,000        323,000       1,554,000
B. Equipment                       8,857,000    27,665,000    15,425,000      4,564,000      56,511,000
D. Specialist services             2,508,000     3,279,000     2,484,000        914,000       9,185,000
E. Training                         342,000      1,293,000      1,112,000       444,000       3,191,000
F. Project Management               740,000       758,000        777,000        797,000       3,072,000
Total Investment Costs                          -    33,807,000     20,149,000      7,043,000      73,513,000
II. Recurrent Costs
B. Office Supplies                    8,000         8,000          8,000              -          24,000
C. Equipment Maintenance                  -       121,000        124,000        127,000         372,000
E. Equipment Operational Expenses          -       187,000       191,000         196,000        574,000
Total Recurrent Costs                       8,000       316,000       323,000         323,000        970,000
Totai PROiJECT COSTS                              -    34,i23,000     20,472,000      7,366,000      74,483,000



Page 44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years-Totals including Contingencies
%      % Total
(US$)                 Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign       Total   Exchange   Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                       268,000    1,073,000    1,341,000      80          2
B. Equipment                        9,980,000   39,221,000   49,201,000     80         74
D. Specialist services              1,406,000    7,404,000    8,810,000     84         13
E. Training                          248,000    2,790,000    3,038,000      92          5
F. Project Management                      -   2,923,000    2,923,000      100          4
Total Investment Costs                11,902,000   53,411,000   65,313,000      82         99
II. Recurrent Costs
B. Office Supplies                    23,000            -      23,000         -          -
C. Equipment Maintenance             350,000            -     350,000         -         1
E. Equipment Operational Expenses    540,000            -     540,000         -         1
Total Recurrent Costs                    913,000           -      913,000        -          1
Total BASELINE COSTS                    12,815,000   53,411,000   66,226,000     81        100
Physical Contingencies              1,019,000    4,005,000    5,024,000     80          8
Price Contingencies                  642,000    2,593,000    3,235,000      80          5
Total PROJECT COSTS                     14,476,000   60,009,000   74,485,000     81        112



Page 45
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(US$)                   Foreign    Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Exchange   Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                   268,000    1,073,000     1,341,000         80       2
B. Equipment                    9,980,000   39,221,000    49,201,000        80      74
D. Specialist services          1,406,000    7,404,000    8,810,000         84      13
E. Training                      248,000    2,790,000     3,038,000        92        5
F. Project Management                  -   2,923,000      2,923,000        100       4
Total Investment Costs             11,902,000   53,411,000    65,313,000       82      99
II. Recurrent Costs
B. Office Supplies                23,000            -       23,000           -       -
C. Equipment Maintenance         350,000            -      350,000           -       I
E. Equipment Operational         540,000            -      540,000           -       I
Expenses
Total Recurrent Costs                913,000           -       913,000           -       1
Total BASELINE COSTS                      12,815,000   53,411,000    66,226,000       81      100
Physical Contingencies          1,019,000    4,005,000    5,024,000         80       8
Price Contingencies              642,000    2,593,000     3,235,000         80       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                       14,476,000   60,009,000    74,485,000       81      112



Page 46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Cost
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Cost by Financiers (US$)
IBRD            The Government             Total                       Local (Excl.  Duties &
Amount       %       Amount        %       Amount    %    For. Exch.    Taxes)         Taxes
Inv sts     60,009,000    81.6       13,505,000   18.4   73,514,000  98.7  60,009,000    866,000   12,638,000
Rec costs              -      -         970,000  100.0     970,000   1.3            -    970,000            -
Total              60,009,000    80.6       14,474,000   19.4   74,483,000 100.0  60,009,000   1,836,000   12,638,000



Page 47
Annex 4: Summary Economic Analysis
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Introduction
1. As Russia makes the transition to a market-based economy, the forest sector is facing serious
problems. Production has declined sharply since 1990 (although there was some recovery in 1999),
causing severe hardship to many people who depend on this sector for their lilvelihoods. The management
of forests has deteriorated as budgets have been cut. The result is increased illegal logging (often
environmentally damaging), less effective pest and fire control and less regeneration.
2. The Russian authorities are well aware of these difficulties. They are seeking to implement reforms
that improve public sector management of Russia's forests, and create an enabling environment for
private sector investment in forest utilization, thus helping the sector conl:ribute to Russia's economic
recovery.
3. The Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project supports such changes in three key forest regions of Russia. If
successful, the approach will be extended to all the forest regions of the country. The Project would be
carried out in the regions of Khabarovsk Kray, Krasnoyarsk Kray and Leningrad Oblast. It has two
principal components (see Annex 2). Component A would support sustainable public sector forest
management through policy reforms improved forest land-use planning and information management,
improved forest fire and pest management and regeneration. It would support the Federal Forest Service
and Regional Forest Committees in implementing these changes and would be financed by the Federal
Government. Component B would support forest improved forest enterprise management through training
programs in improved forest harvesting and processing technologies, modem management and business
practices, and improved utilization of non-timber forest products. It would be financed through on-
lending to the regional administrations, which would organize training programs and lease equipment for
training purposes to pilot enterprises.
4. The whole Project is designed to improve the management of forests and increase their sustainability
and profitability. It would have economic and financial benefits, as well as ecological, institutional and
social benefits.
5. The project has a large policy reform element, and full realization of the benefits depends also on
broader reforms in taxation, governance and the overall investment climate, some of which are beyond
the control of this project. Therefore, a dual approach was taken to the analysis of Project benefits. First,
an estimate was undertaken of the overall increase in the value of forest production that would be
necessary to achieve a 12% rate of return. Second, an ERR estimate was calculated with accompanying
sensitivity analysis. Although benefits have been calculated for the Project's components and sub-
components to facilitate quantification, this does not imply that those benefits could be realized if any
activity were to be implemented separately from the rest of the Project. Hence individual activities with
high rates of return cannot be picked out from the whole package and supported for separate funding.
This is particularly true for component A, which is an integrated package. The Project has to be seen as a
whole, and not as a set of independent Sub-components. A more detailed economic analysis is presented
in the Project Implementation Plan, which also indicates data sources.



Page 48
Basic assumptions and the Without-Project Situation
6. The introductory section of the PAD summarizes the main sector issues, which are described in more
detail in the Chapter 2 of the PIP. Table 1 gives a synopsis of the cost and price assumptions used for the
purpose of the economic and financial analysis of the Project. The average gross profits of timber and
lumber sales suggest that significant economic rents exist in the wood sector, especially for the products
destined for exports.
Table 1: Forestry Costs and Forest Product Price Structure
Khabarovsk       Krasnoyarsk         Leningrad
Unit  Export Domestic  Export Domestic  Export Domestic
Average timber price    $/m3   45.00    20.00    40.00    20.00    35.00      25.00
Average lumber price    $/m3   90.00    60.00   100.00     50.00   100.00     50.00
VAT                     $/m3        -     3.00        -     3.00        -      3.75
Sales tax               $/m3       -      1.00        -     1.00        -      1.25
Logging                 $/m3    4.00      4.00    4.00      4.00     6.00      6.00
Stumpage                $/m3    0.76      0.76    0.48      0.48     0.95      0.95
Processing at lower store  $/m3    2.00   2.00    2.00      2.00     5.00      5.00
Administration costs    $/m3    3.00      3.00     3.00     3.00     3.00      3.00
Transportation          $/m3   15.00      3.00    20.00     3.00     5.00      2.00
Processing at port      $/m3    5.00         -        -        -    5.00
Other costs             $/m3    5.00      3.00     5.00     3.00     5.00      3.00
Total operating costs   $/m3   34.76    19.76    34.48     19.48    29.95     24.95
Gross profit on timber    $/m3   10.24    0.24     5.52     0.52     5.05      0.05
Share of timber sales    %      0.68      0.32    0.40      0.60     0.80      0.20
Gross profit on lumber    $/m3   25.24    19.24    35.52    9.52    40.05      5.05
Share of lumber sales    %      0.73      0.27    0.40      0.60     0.80      0.20
Timber sales                  Regular Auction  Regular  Auction  Regular  Auction
Share                    %      89%      11%     46%       54%      93%       7%
Average stumpage fee    $/m3    0.76      0.80     0.33     0.60     0.80      2.88
Note: export prices are FOB (free on board)
7.  Table 2 summarizes the other main data or assumptions of the without-Project case used in the
analysis. Without the Project, the forest sector would recover only slowly. The sector would continue to
be characterized by aging forests, more serious outbreaks of fire than before 1989, lack of capital
replacement and especially new investment, reduced total output of timber and wood products, production
with low added value, low forest revenues, low export prices, continued illegal logging and timber trade,
and local forest communities trapped in poverty.
8.   Lines 1, 2 and 3 of Table 2 give, respectively, the volumes of timber harvested, exported and sold
domestically in each region. Line 4 is an average of the forest area subject to fire and pests annually.
Line 5 is an average conversion factor of marketable timber to the volume of harvest (before the
efficiency gains due to the Project). Line 6 indicates the average density of mature usable timber of the
regional forest areas. Line 7 is a conservative estimate of the value of non-timber forest products
(NTFPs), i.e. berries, mushrooms, etc., in Russian forests. Line 8 gives the proportion of those products
that is actually collected (the proportion is higher in Leningrad as this region is more densely populated).
The values in line 9 are the average weights of carbon sequestered in timber. Line 10 gives the
proportions of timber that is still commercially valuable even after the passage of fire. Line 11 gives the



Page 49
volumes of timber logged by the enterprises which will be piloting the hands-on training under
component B ( Leningrad training is provided in milling not logging).
Table 2: Other Without-Project Assumptions
Khabarovsk K;rasnoyarsk Leningrad
I   Volume of timber harvested (Mn. m3p.a)              4.37        7.15       7.50
2   Volume of timber exported (Mn. m3p.a.)              1.80        1.72       3.60
3   Volume of timber sold domestically (Mn. m3p.a.)     0.83        1.72       2.70
4   Forest area subject to fire/pests annually (Mn. ha)  0.25       0.10       0.03
5   Volume of marketable timber to volume of harvest    60%         60%        60%
6   Volume of mature timber per ha (m3 per ha)        109.08      154.79     186.05
7   Value of NTFP in Russian forests ($ per ha)       100.00      100.00     100.00
8   NTFP actually collected                             25%         25%        60%
9   Carbon sequestered in Russian forests (ton per ha)  0.40        0.40       0.40
10  Usable forest despite fires and pests              40%         40%         40%
11  Timber logged by pilot enterprises (Mn. m3p.a.)     0.20        0.20        n.a.
Benefit Analysis
9. Fourteen different economic benefits have been quantified, resulting from the activities supported by
the Project:
* Policy and regulatory improvements, which are expected to boost the efficiency and profitability of
forest enterprises through increases in harvested volumes and higher unit prices for timber, resulting
in the following economic benefits:
(i)  improved logging plans on the basis of forest resource rental assessments would increase the cost
effectiveness of harvesting;
(ii)  strategic forest planning, and revised legal mechanisms for development, adoption and fulfillment
of the federal and regional forest budgets would raise harvested volumes;
(iii)  improved forest information systems would lead to higher value per unit-area harvested, within
ecologically sound norms.
(iv) certification of forest management and forest products would lead to higher prices or volumes for
exported forest products.
*  Fire andpest monitoring and management, which would enable:
(v) increased harvest of commercial timber that would have otherwise been destroyed by fire and pests;
(vi) savings in fire- and pest-fighting expenditures;
(vii) increased harvest of non-timber forest products saved from fire and pests;
(viii) increased carbon sequestration.
* Forest regeneration, including both assistance to natural regeneration and plantation of greenhouse
seedlings, which would lead to:
(ix) increased output of timber and non-timber products on a sustainable basis;
(x)  increased sequestration of carbon;
(xi) employment creation where labor resources are underutilized.



Page 50
* Training in modern wood and non-timber product harvesting and processing methods and improved
enterprise management would enable:
(xii) increases in productivity of timber logging firms and saw mills;
increases in sustainable output of non-timber forest products;
(xiii) employment creation.
10. Table 3 lists the main assumptions that were made for calculating project benefits. Line I gives the
annual (non-compounded) increase in timber production expected between 2004 and 2009. Line 2 is the
increase in the proportion of marketable timber to the volume of harvest expected. Lines 3 and 4 reflect
the benefits of forest certification in terms of export volumes and prices. Line 5 gives the expected
increases in stumpage fees. Line 6 includes the proportions of forest land subject to fire and pests that are
expected to be saved, with line 7 indicating the amount of wood saved that is actually sold. Line 8 gives
the forest areas to be regenerated. Lines 9 and 10 give the number of timber enterprises which will serve
as pilots for component B, and their expected gains in efficiency. Lines 11 and 12 indicate the reduction
in logging costs and the output gains, and lines 13 and 14 the number of trainees and expected gains in
productivity
Table 3: Main With-Project Assumptions
Khabarovsk Krasnoyarsk Leningrad
I   Growth rate in timber production in 2004-2009   1%          1%          1%
2   Increase in efficiency of timber firms          5%          5%          5%
3   Growth rate in timber exports in 2004-2009      3%          3%          3%
4   Premium in export price ($/m3)                  1.00        1.00       3.00
5   Increase in stumpage fee                        2%          2%          2%
6   Forest land subject to fire and pests and saved  30%        30%        30%
7   Portion of marketable timber saved that is sold  25%        25%        25%
8   Forest area regenerated (hap.a.)               1,000        500         300
9   Number of timber pilot enterprises               2           2           1
10  Productivity gain per timber pilot              50%          50%        n.a.
11  Reduction in logging costs in pilots            25%          25%        n.a.
12  Gain in output from sawmills (m3 p.a)         33,500       10,000     150,000
13  Number of timber/lumber trainees                 270         250        300
14  Number of trainees per timber enterprise           8            8         8
14  Productivity gain of enterprises participating in  25%       25%       25%
training relative to pilots
n.a. = not applicable since no logging enterprises will be supported in Leningrad
11. A summary of the main quantified benefits for 2004 and 2009 is given in Table 4 (after 2009 the
benefits stay constant to 2019). Overall annual economic benefits amount to around $15 million in
Khabarovsk, $8 million in Krasnoyarsk, and $61 million in Leningrad.
12. Benefits are greater in Leningrad than in the other two regions, especially due to component B, where
the value added of the training activities is the highest. The increase in productivity is due Firstly to an
increase in output for the same inputs, as waste is reduced and equipment is used more efficiently by
better-trained labor, and secondly to reductions in logging costs from better equipment and better-trained
labor.



Page 51
13. In addition, Leningrad records higher benefits in Component A due to the strong export orientation
of its wood production, and the higher export price premium expected as a result of certification activities.
Table 4: Summary of Annual Economic Benefits ($ Mn.)
Component           Khabarovsk       Krasnoyarsk       Leningrad
2004    2009    2004    2009    2004    2009
Component A               6.83     8.73    3.80    4.56    9.09    9.63
Component B               7.12    7.12      3.66    3.66   51.44   51.44
Project                   13.96   15.85     7.46    8.22   60.93   61.52
14. The Project is also expected to generate benefits, which were not quantified in the analysis due
essentially to the lack of reliable data or the difficulty in estimating the benefits' magnitude. Leaving out
these benefits almost certainly causes the economic benefits of the Project to be underestimated. They
include the following:
(1) increased attractiveness of the forest sector for investors, resulting from a better and more transparent
regulatory framework;
(2) improved incentives for proper forest management from a viable system of forest insurance against
fire and pest loss for enterprises that have taken logging licenses;
(3) reduced illegal logging would lead to better regulated, and therefore more ecologically sustainable,
forest management;
(4) improved forest management and land-use planning would improve ecologically sustainable forest
use, and the fulfillment of productive and protective forest functions;
(5) improved sustainability of forest use in the regions with intensive forest exploitation;
(6) reduced loss of biodiversity, including endangered species;
(7) reduced damages to public and private property, e.g. in densely populated Leningrad, the value of
infrastructure saved from reduced fires;
(8) value of fuelwood saved from fire;
(9) regional poverty alleviation where employment opportunities are created;
(10) reduced damage to recreational value.
Project costs are derived from the cost tables and exclude taxes, duties and price contingencies in the
economic analysis. Recurrent costs are extended over the 20 year period of the analysis.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
15. A "standard" cost benefit analysis was undertaken. Economic rates of return (ERRs) for the Project
are summarized in Table 5. The ERRs are well in excess of those that would justify the Project. The
especially high ERRs in Leningrad are explained by more favorable export prices and a higher return to
hands-on training (also see the section on benefits above).
16. ERRs are high because the due to the project includes a number of relatively inexpensive policy
changes and investments with significant economic benefits as inefficiencies are reduced. The Project
provides the impetus and the financial support for these changes. There are in addition important non-
quantified benefits from contributions to ecologically sustainable management and regional employment
generation.



Page 52
17. There are also many factors outside the control of the project, such as the overall tax, investment and
political environment, which would affect the project's outcome. Therefore "conventional" ERR analysis,
while useful, should be taken only as indicative of the range of possible benefits from the project.
Table 5: Summary ERRs
Khabarovsk  Krasnoyarsk  Leningrad    Project *
Component A                45%           41%         136%         58%
Component B                 54%          54%         846%         173%
Both components             49%          47%         395%         112%
* including the federal govemrnent
18. Much lower benefits are sufficient to ensure an ERR of 12%. For example, in Khabarovsk, the
annual combination of a $0.75 increase in timber export prices (as opposed to a $1 increase in the base
case), a 1% increase in the efficiency of timber harvesting operations (as opposed to a 5% increase in the
base case), and the participation of 25 timber firms in training under component B (as opposed to 36 in
the base case) would be enough, in the absence of other benefits, to ensure a 12% ERR.
19. In Krasnoyarsk, the annual combination of a $0.75 increase in timber export prices (as opposed to a
$1 increase in the base case), a 1% increase in the efficiency of timber harvesting operations (as opposed
to a 5% increase in the base case), and the participation of 20 timber firns in training under component B
(as opposed to 31 in the base case) would be enough, in the absence of other benefits, to guarantee a 12%
ERR.
20. In Leningrad, the necessary benefits are even lower: for instance, a combination of a $0.65 increase
(as opposed to a $3 increase in the base case) in timber export prices and an increase in lumber production
of 15,000 cubic meters per pilot enterprise a year (as opposed to a 150,000 cubic meter increase in the
base case) would suffice, in the absence of other benefits, for a 12% ERR.
Sensitivity Analysis
21. Although there are large uncertainties about the benefits, these can be accommodated; even with
benefits at a fraction of the base case, the Project has an acceptable rate of return.
22. The ERR of component A is sensitive to three variables in particular, namely: (1) the presence and
level of increases in export prices from certification; (2) the increases in efficiency of timber harvesting
firms as a result of better forest policy; and (3) the degree of success of forest fire and pest management.
No other variable used in the analysis exerts a significant influence on the ERR for component A.
23. Table 6 gives the regional ERRs for component A when each of these three variables is reduced to
zero. (See the base-case values of these variables in Table 3). As Table 7 suggests, when any one benefit
is annihilated, the overall ERR for component A remains above 12%. Only when the benefits of at least
two variables altogether disappear does the ERR fall to zero.



Page 53
Table 6: Sensitivity Analysis for Component A - ERRs
Khabarovsk   Krasnoyarsk   Leningrad
1   Base-case ERR of component A        45%          41%            136%
2   No increase in export price premium    34%        23%           20%
3   No increase in efficiency of timber  39%          36%           125%
firms
4   No forest land subject to fire and pests  17%     23%           124%
is saved with Project
24. The ERR of component B is particularly sensitive to four variables used in the economic analysis:
(1) the magnitude of productivity gains registered by timber pilot enterprises, i.e. the enterprises where
training is carried out on improved equipment; (2) the magnitude of productivity gains registered by
timber enterprises whose staff undertake training; (3) the number of enterprises participating in the
training programs; (4) the expected increases in sawmills' output; and (5) the increase in output of NTFP
enterprises. .
25. Table 7 shows the results. ERRs for component B remain above 12% in all cases,
Table 7: Sensitivity Analysis for Component B - ERRs
Khabarovsk  Krasnoyarsk  Leningrad
i  Base-case ERR of component B              54%          54%         846%
2  No productivity gains for timber pilots   21%          34%          n.a.
3  No productivity gains for trainees *      28%          38%          51%
4  Only half of the trainees participate*    41%          47%         329%
5  Only half of the sawmills' output gain    51%          53%         289%
7  No increase in NTFP output                47%          41%          n.a.
n.a. = not applicable since no training of timber or NTFP enterprises wvill occur in Leningrad under
component B
* "Trainees" include timber, lumber and NTFP enterprises.
Conclusion
26. The Project has the potential to make a significant contribution to the regional economy through
supporting improved forest and forest enterprise management.
27. The cost benefit analysis has shown that the two most important variables are the gains in efficiency
as a result of improved forest planning and management under component A and the gains in productivity
enterprises as a result of training and equipment leasing activities under component B. Sensitivity
analysis has shown that even a substantial reduction in benefits would result in positive net present values
at a discount rate of 12%.



Annex 5: Summary Financial Analysis
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Introduction
1. Although Russia contains the largest expanse of forest in the world, and the forest sector plays an
important role in the economy, both in output and employment terms, the contribution of the sector to
public revenues remains low.  Forest revenues from  harvesting are inadequate to cover forest
management expenditures, let alone contribute to the general budget. The Project would contribute to
correcting this situation.
2. The expected financial benefits include increased government revenues from improved resource
assessment and taxation, sales of better quality timber, increased production and exports, higher export
prices from certification, regional revenues from equipment leasing agreements, and increased tax
revenues as investors respond to a more favorable investment environment.
3. Although financial benefits have usually been calculated for separate components and sub-
components, this has been done to facilitate quantification. It does not imply that those benefits could be
realized if any component or sub-component were to be implemented separately from the rest of the
Project. Hence individual activities with high rates of return cannot be picked out from the whole
package and supported for separate funding. The Project has to be seen as a whole, and not as a set of
independent sub-components.
Assumptions
4. Table I presents the assumptions referring to the taxes and tax collection rates used for the purpose of
the financial analysis in all three regions.
Table 1: Assumptions on Taxes
Profit tax rate                                    30%
Profit tax share of federal government             37%
Profit tax share of regional government            63%
VAT rate                                           15%
Wood export tax rate ($ per M3)                    7.50
Sales tax rate                                      5%
Average collection rate of profit tax              50%
Average collection rate of VAT                     60%
Average collection rate of sales and export taxes  70%
Please also refer to Tables 1-3 of the section on the economic analysis for other with- and without-Project
assumptions.
Project Costs and Benefits
5. The Project is expected to provide tangible financial gains to the federal and regional governments.
As output increases in the forest sector, so enterprises will pay higher stumpage fees, value-added tax
(VAT) and sales taxes on domestic sales, higher export taxes on exports, and higher profits taxes. In



Page 55
addition, the regional governments will receive revenues from leasing of equipment under component B.
Finally, if and when carbon trading occurs, there might be increased revenues from sales of excess
emission rights as well.
6. Nine different financial benefits were quantified. They take the form of increases in:
(1) stumpage fees;
(2) profits tax receipts;
(3) VAT receipts;
(4) export duties;
(5) sales tax receipts.
There are the following additional financial benefits:
(6) savings in fire- and pest-control costs;
(7) savings in regional employment budgets as a result of newly created jobs;
(8) revenues from the leasing of modem equipment to pilot enterprises;
(9) earnings from sales of excess carbon emissions rights.
7. Part of these benefits accrue to the federal government only, e.g. VAT and export tax revenues, part
to the regional governments only, e.g. sales tax revenues, and some accrue to both, e.g. profits tax
revenues.
8. As Table 2 illustrates, regional financial benefits are similar for all lhree regions, while federal
benefits from Leningrad are higher than those from the other two regions. This is mainly due to the
export orientation of timber lumber production in Leningrad, which generates considerable export duties.
Table 2: Annual Financial Benefits ($ Mn.)
Khabarovsk   Krasnoyarsk    Leningrad
Federal           2004   2009  2004  2009  2004  2009
Profitstax                  0.811  0.811  0.318  0.318  3.368  3.368
Export duties               2.826  2.826  1.421  1.421  6.990  6.990
VAT                         3.401  3.401  4.062  4.062  0.713  0.713
Savings in fire fighting costs   0.038  0.038  0.015  0.015  0.005  0.005
Total federal receipts      7.075  7.075  5.816  5.816  11.075 11.075
Regional
Profits tax                  1.381  1.381  0.541  0.541  5.734  5.734
Stumpage fees               0.033  0.033  0.034  0.034  0.071  0.07 1
Sales tax                   3.620  3.620  4.047  4.047  0.866  0.866
Employment budget reduction  0.006  0.006  0.003  0.003  0.002  0.002
Equipment leasing receipts    1.448  0.319  0.578  0.281  1.027    -
Total regional receipts     6.489  5.360  5.203  4.906  7.700  6.673
9. The Project will also generate financial benefits that have not been quantified in this analysis. Some
of these non-quantified benefits are common to the economic analysis. For example, the increased
attractiveness of the forest sector for investors resulting from a better and more transparent regulatory
framework, the reduction in illegal logging, the value of fuelwood and infrastructure saved from fire, etc.



Page 56
In addition, the receipts of carbon emissions trades under the Kyoto Protocol have been kept to a
minimum and only projected to occur in the year 2010 for including reduced illegal logging, which
would lead to increased revenues for the government. Moreover, it has been assumed that NTFPs are
consumed by households for personal use or small trade and do not generate tax revenues.
10. Other financial benefits were not quantified, which further underestimates the financial justification
of the Project, e.g. better financial and budgetary management of the Federal Forest Service, which would
increase the cost-effectiveness of forest management operations, and better sales and financial
management of forest enterprises, in particular as a result of the business management training to be
provided under component B of the Project, which would increase the firms' profitability.
11. Finally, relatively low tax collection rates have been assumed. These may prove conservative against
the background of public finance reform and more effective tax collection. As in the economic analysis,
such a conservative approach probably underestimates the benefits arising from the Project.
12. The Project provides substantial income to both the regions and the federal government. Over the
period 2000-2019, undiscounted net financial inflows will amount to $306 million to the federal
government, $64 million to Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk, and $104 million to Leningrad. This
represents an annual average of $15 million to the federal government, $3 million to Khabarovsk and
Krasnoyarsk, and $5 million to Leningrad.
13. Cost comprises estimated project investment costs including taxes and duties, and recurrent costs for
the period of the analysis to 2020.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
14. A "standard" cost-benefit analysis been carried out, the results of which are synthesized in Table 3.
The policy component, component A, produces higher benefits in Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk, while the
enterprise restructuring component B has a relatively greater impact in Leningrad. However, such
distinction is purely analytical. As was underlined earlier, the two components cannot be seen in
isolation, since the activities are complementary. A financial flow analysis was also undertaken
illustrating the expected inflows and outflows to the federal government and the regions, taking into
account repayment of the Bank loan. Its results are summarized in the PIP. IRRs are a little higher using
this approach, because of the Bank in-flows in the early years.
Table 3: Summary IRRs
Khabarovsk  Krasnoyarsk  Leningrad    Project *
Component A                22%          37%          12%         55%
Component B                13%          13%         77%          38%
Both components            19%          29%         39%          46%
* including the federal govermment



Page 57
Sensitivity Analysis
15. As in the economic analysis, the IRR of component A is sensitive to three variables in particular,
namely: (1) the presence and level of increases in export prices from certification; (2) the increases in
efficiency of timber harvesting firms as a result of better forest policy; and (3) the degree of success of
forest fire and pest management.
16. Table 4 gives the regional IRRs for component A when each of these three variables is reduced to
zero. (See the base-case values of these variables in Table 2 of the Annex on the economic analysis.) As
Table 4 suggests, when the export price premium or efficiency benefits are annihilated, the overall IRRs
for component A remain well above 12% in Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarslc. Reductions in the export
premium benefit (lines 2 and 3) are more critical in Leningrad since the region depends more heavily on
exports. However, the base-case assumption of a premium of $3 per m3 may be regarded as very
conservative in the first place. According to some experts timber exports from Leningrad might actually
reap short-term rises price rises of $15 per cubic meter if certification were implemented in the near
future.
17. If the Project does not manage to curb the destruction inflicted by fire and pests (line 4), the IRRs
become unsatisfactory in all three regions. The risk of such an occurrence is low, however, since fire
prevention and management respond quite well to inputs to be provided under the project.  For
component A to achieve an IRR of 12%, the Project needs to save 18%, 11%/o and 27% of the forest land
undergoing fire and pest outbreaks in Khabarovsk, Krasnoyarsk and Leningrad, respectively.
Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis for Component A - IFRRs
Khabarovsk  Krasnoyarsk   Leningrad
I  Base-case IRR of component A            22%          37%           12%
2   No increase in export price premium    21%          35%           Negative
3   Only half the increase in price premium  22%        36%           6%
4   No increase in efficiency              20%          34%            11%
5   No forest land subject to fire and pests is    negative  negative  5%
saved with Project
18. The IRR of component B is particularly sensitive to three variables used in the analysis: (1) the
magnitude of productivity gains registered by timber pilot enterprises, i.e. the enterprises where training is
carried out on improved equipment; (2) the magnitude of productivity gains registered by timber
enterprises whose staff undertake training; (3) and the number of enterprises participating in the training
programs. See the base-case values of these variables in Table 3 of the section on the economic analysis.
19. Table 5 shows the results. The absence of productivity gains in timber enterprises (lines 2 and 3)
despite the Project would be critical to Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk.
20. Regarding the enterprises benefiting from training in Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk, they must realize
about 85% of the base-case assumptions for these regions to achieve a 12%/o IRR on component B. The
component is thus highly sensitive to the success of the training activities in achieving their objectives.



Page 58
Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis for Component B - IRRs
Khabarovsk  Krasnoyarsk   Leningrad
I  Base-case IRR of component B              13%           13%          77%
2  No productivity gains for timber pilots    2%         negative       n.a.
3   Half the productivity gains for timber    8%            8%          n.a.
pilots
4  No productivity gains for trainees         5%            3%          13%
5  Half the productivity gains for trainees   9%           9%           47%
6   Only half of the trainees participate     9%           9%           47%
(a) n.a. not applicable since no training of timber or NTFP enterprises will occur in Leningrad;
(b) "Trainees" include timber, lumber and NTFP enterprises.
Conclusion
21. The Project can significantly increase the revenues to the federal and regional budgets. Indeed the
Project alone could increase the federal budget revenues by 0.08%. The corresponding inflows would
amount to 0.6% of the regional budget in Khabarovsk, 0.3% in Krasnoyarsk, and as much as 1.3% in
Leningrad.
22. These benefits could be even higher if more reliable data or better estimation techniques existed, and
if all the likely benefits of the Projects had been evaluated.
23. The sensitivity analysis has shown that results are sensitive to some variables, e.g. the existence of a
premium in export prices due to certification and the gains in efficiency which will be realized thanks to
the Project.
24. The analysis suggests the Project will enhance the contribution of the sector to public revenues by
eaming substantial additional revenues for the federal and regional govemments and contributing to the
financial recovery of the national and regional economy.



Page 59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilol: Project
A. Procurement Arrangements
I. Procurement methods
1. Procurement of all goods and works financed by the Bank loan would be conducted in
accordance with the "Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," (January
1995 version as subsequently revised ending with January 1999). With respect to goods
procurement and international competitive bidding (ICB), the Borrower would use the Bank's
standard bidding documents; with respect to shopping procedures, i:he Borrower would use the
ECA Region sample documents and procedures acceptable to the Bank. Works procurement
would be conducted using ECA Region sample documents for national competitive bidding
(NCB) works and minor works (MW). Selection of consultants would be made in accordance
with the "Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,"
(January 1997 version as subsequently revised ending January 1999).  For consulting
assignments, the Borrower would use the relevant Bank standard requests for proposals and
contracts. With respect to procurement of goods and works, the Borrower would use the Bank's
standard bid evaluation form. As for selection of consultants, the sample form of evaluation
report recommended by the Bank would be used.
II. Implementation
2. Implementation arrangements are described in section 4 of the PAD. Technical responsibility
for implementation of the federally financed component (component A) will rest with Federal
Forest Service (FFS) supported by its regional offices in the pilot regions. Participating regional
administrations will bear responsibility for implementation of the regionally financed component
(component B).  The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER), an existing project
implementation agency in Moscow, would provide support in project management, procurement,
financial management and reporting to the FFS, the Regional Administrations, and the inter-
ministerial Steering Committee. In particular, FER would assume responsibility for the Project's
compliance with Bank procurement procedures and guidelines with respect to all procurement
financed by the Bank. For this purpose, FER will enter into an agency agreement with the
Ministry of Finance and project implementation support agreements with FFS and the
participating regional administrations. Project management costs incurred by FER on behalf of
the Ministry of Finance with respect to provision of management and implementation support to
the Project would be financed under Component C.
3. FFS and the regional administrations will be responsible for: (i) approval of annual
procurement plans prepared by FER and modifications prior to submission for Bank no-objection;
(ii) with the help of FER, preparation of specifications for procurement of goods and preparation
of Terms of Reference (ToR) for hiring of consultants; (iii) approval of the bidding documents
prior to submission by FER for Bank no-objection; (iv) bid evaluation including convention and
leadership of bid evaluation committees and preparation of final technical evaluation protocols
and financial assessment bulletins; FER would participate in evaluations to confirm compliance
with Bank rules and procedures and would then submit evaluations for Bank no-objection; (v)
participation in negotiations and conclusion of contracts; the contracts will be signed by FER; (vi)
acceptance, evaluation and management of consultant contracts and outputs with assistance of



Page 60
FER; (vii) and acceptance of goods and works. FER would provide support and training to the
FFS and the regional administrations to ensure familiarity with the Bank's procurement practices
and procedures, standard reporting formats etc. as well as to ensure that goods, works and
services procured under the Project would only be used for intended purposes. FER would also
be responsibility for communications with the World Bank. These procedures are described in
detail in the Operational Manual prepared by FER.
4. FER currently manages implementation of three Bank financed projects in Russia. A formal
assessment by the Bank has found FER's present procurement capacity adequate to prepare for
startup procurement activities of the Forestry Pilot Project.  FER  is a well-organized
implementing agency with considerable experience in implementation of Bank financed projects.
This experience will be applied to ensure that there will no overlapping of roles between FER on
the one hand and the FFS and the regions on the other. FER's management skills and experience
will also assure that there be no voids with respect to project implementation responsibilities.
5. The FER procurement unit is headed by a Procurement Specialist assisted by three
Procurement Analysts. Two additional procurement specialists will be needed, however, in the
Contracts Management Department to cope with procurement implementation.  The new
procurement specialists would have experience in Bank-financed procurement. Furthermore,
FER will hire qualified consultants to assist in preparation and design of technical specifications
for procurement packages at the federal as well as at the regional levels.
6. FER will: (i) prepare annual procurement plans and subsequent adjustments; (ii) publish
annual General Procurement Notices and the required Specific Procurement Notices in the
appropriate publications (iii) assist the FFS and the regions in preparing specifications for goods
and works and TORs for consulting services, ensuring compliance with World Bank procedures
and rules; (iv) prepare bidding documents including bid announcements, document distribution,
bid conferences, responses to bidders' queries and the associated clearances from the Bank; (v)
arrange for receipt of bids, public bid and proposal opening, preparation of minutes of bid
opening, and translation of proposals; and (vi) participate in bid evaluation and prepare final
technical and financial evaluation protocol and subsequent Bank's clearance.
7. Information on procurement would be collected by FER and recorded for quarterly progress
reports to be submitted to the inter-ministerial project Steering Committee and to the Bank.
These reports will show: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total
project; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions and completion time; (iii) an updated
procurement plan; and (iv) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
8. The initial General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the UN Development
Business in October 1999. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be issued in accordance
with established procedures. A project launch workshop is planned for March, 2000.
III. Procurement arrangements
9. Goods: Altogether about 83 contracts estimated at a total value of US$ 55.8 million
equivalent]
10. Goods comprising a wide range of equipment including computers, communications
equipment, fire fighting and pest management equipment, vehicles, boats, green houses, logging,



Page 61
timber and non-timber processing equipment, milling and harvesting equipment, laboratory
equipment, generators etc. would be procured. Most of the equipment would be delivered to the
forest districts (Leskhoz) in the three pilot regions.
11. ICB procedures would be followed for all contracts estimated at above US$ 200,000
equivalent representing an aggregate amount of US$ 52.8 million (or 94.6 percent of the total
value of goods procurement). About 39 such ICB contracts are envisaged.
12. Intemational Shopping (ISH) would be used for contracts estimated at US$ 200,000
equivalent or less, representing procurement of laboratory equipment, communications
equipment, fire fighting protective gear, packaging equipment, generators, compressors,
equipment for training classes etc. These would comprise about, 23 contracts at an aggregate
value of US$ 2.6 million. Under'ISH procedures, at least three price quotations will be obtained
from qualified suppliers in at least two countries.
13. National Shopping (NSH) procedures would be applied for procurement of small packages of
items valued at US$ 50,000 or less per contract (in all about 21 contracts and US$ 0.6 million in
the aggregate). Contracts award would be on the basis of comparison of at least three quotations
obtained from qualified domestic suppliers.
14. Works: Ten contracts estimated at US$ 1.4 million equivalent in the aggregate.
15. Works include extended forest inventory for pilot leskhozes, refurbishment of facilities and
construction of parking lots and pilot monitoring sites.
16. NCB procedures would be used for three technical services contracts each estimated to cost
about US$ 300,000 equivalent and representing an aggregate amount of US$ 900,000. Only
three contracts for conducting forest inventory in pilot leskhozes are envisaged using this method.
17. Minor Works would be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000. Only
relatively small works are envisaged for construction and refurbishment of forest parking
facilities (Leningrad and Khabarovsk), sites for fire prevention and control facilities, permanent
forest monitoring sites and refurbishment of training facilities (Leningrad, Krasnoyarsk and
Khabarovsk). Seven contracts for an aggregate amount of US$ 5:17,000 are envisaged on the
basis of comparison of at least three price quotations obtained from qualified local contractors.
18. Services: About 72 contracts estimated at US$ 9. 9 million equivalent in the aggregate.
19. The proposed Bank Loan would finance provision of technical assistance including training
under both components of the project. Consulting services would be used to: (i) conduct studies
and draft new legislation and policies in sustainable forest management; (ii) design
communications and information systems for better forest utilization and inventory management;
(iii) training in the use of new equipment including computers and software, fire fighting and pest
management, harvesting timber (iv) train in sustainable harvesting and processing practices; (v)
train in business, marketing and management for forest industries; and (vi) design and conduct
public awareness campaigns.
20. Selection methods for consulting contracts and procurement arrangements to be made for the
provisions of study tours are summarized below:



Page 62
(i) Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) About 24 QCBS contracts (estimated aggregate
US$ 8.6 million equivalent) will be awarded to provide technical assistance including training
mainly for developing specific legislation and design of various communications and information
systems.
(ii) Consultant Qualifications Selection (CQS). Consultants selected in accordance with this
selection method would be engaged to conduct training needs assessment in forest industry
development and provide training seminars to arrange for dissemination to other regions of basic
results with respect to forest planning, management, financing and accounting. ,Selection would
be based on expressions of interest and information on the consultants' relevant experience and
competence. Eight such contracts are foreseen (estimated aggregate is US$ 331 '000).
(iii) Individual Consultants Selection (ICS). Local specialists from regional training institutions
will be engaged as individual consultants to provide training in a number of subjects related to
improved forest management, legal issues, fire control, pest prevention etc. The selection of the
individual consultants will be based on a comparison of applicants qualifications. 33 such
contracts (aggregate US$ 0.82 million) are envisaged. Eligibility requirements would be
examined.
(iv) Training through provision of study tours. The project will finance training through
provision of study tours. The financing will be used mainly for covering travel, accommodation,
and subsistence expenses for the participants during the study tours. The practical arrangements
with regard to tickets and hotel reservations will be made by FER itself under procedures
acceptable to the Bank (agreed procedures, AP). Before any withdrawals take place, the Bank
will review contents of the training program proposed for each tour, procedures for selecting
participants and budget. Seven such study tours are envisaged at an estimated aggregate value of
US$ 180,400.
IV. Prior Review by the Bank
21. The following procurement documentation will be subject to the Bank's prior review:
(i) Goods: All ICB contracts for goods, including bidding documents, evaluation reports and
contracts. In addition, the first two contracts for goods envisaged under shopping procedures will
be subject to prior review.
(ii) Works: All NCB contracts as well as the first two minor works contracts would be subject to
prior review.
(ill) Technical Assistance: Prior Bank review would be required for all TORs irrespective of
contract value. The Bank would undertake prior review of all TORs, Request for Proposals
(RFPs) and short lists with respect to all consultants contracts estimated to cost more than US$
100,000. For each such contract, the Bank would review the technical evaluation report and give
its no-objection prior to the opening of the financial proposal. Bank's no-objection would be
required for the final selections based on results of the combined technical and financial
evaluations For contracts with individual consultants costing US$ 50,000 or more, in addition to
the TORs, the corresponding individual qualifications, experience and terms of contract shall be
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and no-objection.
22. All works, goods and services contracts not subject to prior review would be subject to post
review by the Bank.



Page 63
Annex 6, Table A-1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                         0.90        0.60                       1.50
(-          0.7        (4 0.33)      (-            (1.20)
2. Goods                            53.00        0            3.0                      56.00
(43.00)      (0)         (3.0 5)      (-)          (46.00)
3. Services (see Table A-2)                       -          12.90                      12.90
_______ (-)  (-)        (9.80)       (             (9.80)
4. Project Management Costs                       -          3.07                       3.07
_(-)        (           (3.00)      (-)            (3.00)
5. Incr. Oper. Costs                 -            -           -           0.97           0.97
Total                            53.00        0.90        19.57        0.97          74.44
(43.00)      (0.87)     (16.13)       (0)          (60.00)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
4 Works: Minor works: Contracts US$ 75'000 equivalent or less.
5 Goods: Other methods are (in US$ million): ISH (1.948) and NSH (0.563).



Page 64
Annex 6, Table A-2: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
QCBS   QBS  FBS   LCS           CQS    Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms      8.60      0      0    0         0.33     3.15                13.37
(7.00)    (0)   (0)  (0)       (0.28)   (1.84)   j-          (8.89)
B.            0         0      0    0         0        0.82      -          0.82
Individuals
I (0)       (0)   (0)  (0)        (0)L     (0.68)    (-)       (0.68)
Total   8.60      0      0    0         0.33     3.97                 12.9
(7.00)    (0)   (0    (        (0.28)   (2.52)    (           (9.8)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
FBS  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQS = Consultants' Qualifications Selection
SSS = Single-source Selection
Other = Firns: Training through study tours; Individual consultants: (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 65
Annex 6, Table A3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section I Procurement review
Totals in US$ mn.                                     US$ thousands             US      ( millions
1. Works (0.511)
NCB                   200 and less             0.326
MW 6                  75 and less              None
Sub-total Works                                                                        0.326 (63.8%)
2. Goods (46.308)
ICB                   Above 200                43.798
ISH                   F     200 and less        None
NSH                   50 and less               None
Subtotal Goods                                                                        43.798 (94.6%)
3. Services (9.332)
QCBS                  Firms: above 100          8.647
CQS                   Firmns: I100 and less     None
ICS8                  50 and less               None
Sub-total Services                                                                     8.647 (92.7%)
4. Incr. Oper. Costs 9                                                                 3.000
Total value of goods, works and services:                                             59.151
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                                     55.771 (94.3%)
Post review: All contracts not subject to prior review.
6 MW: First two contracts will be given prior review.
7 Goods: ISH and NSH; First two contracts will be given prior review.
s ICS: First two contracts will be given prior review.
9 FER budget will reviewed and approved each year.



Page 66
Summary Capacity Assessment of the FER in Procurement
Brief statement: The Contracts Management Department of FER has at present four professionals (three specialists and
one assistant) and is planning to recruit two more specialists. The new staff will not be assigned specifically to the new
Project but will take their share of the overall workload in accordance with a clear distribution of responsibilities of the
Department.
CPAR: There is no such report              Will bidding documents for the first year be ready by negotiations:
I Yes
Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch  Date of General      Procurement subject to   Domestic preference for:
Workshop:                     Procurement Notice:      mandatory SPN in         Goods: Yes
March 2000                    October 16, 1999         Development Business:    Works: No
Yes                      Services: No
Retroactive financing: included    Advance Procurement: No
in Loan Agreement
Procurement Monitoring System: FER will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by the Bank's
supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated regularly. Procurement information will be recorded by
FER and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include:
revised cost estimates for different contracts, revised timing of procurement actions, advertising, bidding contract award,
status of contracts including completion time and compliance with the procurement Plan with respect to procurement
methods. A Management Information System with a procurement module will help FER monitor all procurement
actions.
Section IV: Procurement staffing
Name of PAS: Karl Skansing, Senior Procurement S ecialist, Moscow Resident Mission
Role of Field Office: The Procurement Unit of the Moscow Resident Mission will provide procurement review and
back-up to the Project team.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High                        X
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months in addition to routine
procurement review.



Page 67
B. Disbursement and Financial Reporting Arrangements
I. Disbursement Arrangements
23. The proposed Loan would be disbursed over 4.5 years. The loan closing date would be in September
30, 2004. The allocation of loan proceeds is provided in Annex 6. Table C.
24. FER will be responsible for compliance with Bank's disbursement procedures. FER will initiate
payments from the Special Account and from the Loan Account. Guidelines on Disbursement Procedures
for the Forestry Project prepared by FER were approved by the Bank ancl can serve as guidance in
addition to Bank's standard procedures and Loan Agreement (Disbursement Handbook). Project
expenditures for categories la, 2a, 3a, and 4 (See table C) would be eligible for retroactive financing up to
a total of US$ 5.9 million, provided the project procurement rules are followed.
Statements of Expenditures
25. Disbursement would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for (i) contracts with
consulting firms below $100,000 equivalent; (ii) contracts with individual consultants below $20,000
equivalent; (iii) contracts for goods below US$200,000; (iv) works, under contracts costing less than
US$100,000 and (v) project management costs, under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each. All supporting documentation, including contracts, procurement documentation, invoices, and
evidence of payment will be kept at the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for review by the Bank and
independent auditors.
Special Account.
26. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower may establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank. The selection
process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank would follow the WEI procedure.
27. During the early stage of implementation of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account
would be limited to US$0.75 million. However, when aggregate disbursements under the Loan have
reached level of US$3.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of
US$1.5 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications
should be submitted at least every three months.
28. The minimum application size for payments directly from the Loan Account or for issuance of
Special Commitments is 20% of the current Special Account authorized allocations.



Page 68
II. Project Accounting and Systems Reporting
29. Current financial reporting is divided into FER entity reporting which is handled by the accounting
department and project financial reporting which is handled by the Finance Department. The financial
reporting system needs to be capable of producing several different types of reports, including:
*  Annual project management reports in accordance with Bank requirements
*  Quarterly Project Management Reports in conformity with Bank requirements
*  Annual FER financial statements prepared in accordance with IAS (maybe transformed from
Russian financial statements at the year end)
*  Annual FER financial statements prepared in accordance with Russian Legislation
* Reports prepared at request of International Finance Organization Department of the Ministry of
Finance and Project Finance Center
30. Special procedures for monitoring equipment during the whole project life have been agreed by FER
and the regions. Under component B the equipment received by Regional Administrations and registered
as owned by the State Property Committee would be rented to pilot enterprises for training or provided
free of charge to training institutions. Assets financed by the Project and transferred to the Regions would
be attested by a signed document acknowledging receipt and accountability for them on their balance
sheets. A fixed assets register will be maintained by the FER showing name, number, cost of equipment
and exact location. This information is based on the supporting documentation provided by the regions
upon receipt of the equipment. The list of supporting documents required should be agreed by FER and
the regions.
31. In addition to the above reporting requirements, FER will submit quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) to the Bank. For each quarterly report FER will be prepare an analysis of the progress of
project implementation, including project disbursements by the disbursement category, component and
procurement contract. The composition and format of the Project PMRs has been agreed with the Bank
and FER during appraisal.
32. FER is responsible for preparation of the project financial statements for annual audit. Project
financial statements should include data on total project expenditures and financing for the reporting
period including regional financing and counterpart funds.  Regions will provide FER with all
information necessary to prepare such statements (see below).
Reporting of the Participating Regions
33. All regions will nominate project accountants to maintain all project-related records including
recurrent costs financed by regional budgets. The procedure for monitoring and recording costs has been
agreed in the Regional Administrations and local federal Forest bodies with FER. Under the guidance of
FER, Regions will build the financial management capacity necessary to provide FER with all the
information required for the preparation of project financial statements and other reports. The reporting
requirements of sub-borrowers will be defined in Sub-loan Agreements between MOF, FER and Regional
Administrations.



Page 70
Audit Arrangements
34. There would be one auditor for all projects being implemented by FER. The auditor would be
appointed prior to the project effectiveness. Visits to regions would be included in the Terms of
Reference for the auditor, as would the provision of reviewing the system for the maintenance of assets
over the project life
III. Financial Management Capacity Assessment for Foundation for Enzterprise Restructuring
Governance Structure
35. The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER) is a non-
commercial, non-profit foundation founded in July 1996. The founders are Ministry of Finance, Ministry
of Economy, Ministry of Regional Policy, Central Bank of Russia, Ministry of Transport, Leontief Center
and Foundation of Housing Reform, Gosstroy. FER is implementing agency for the Ministry of Finance
on three on-going Bank projects. A more detailed assessment of the financial management capacity .of
the FER is provided in the PIP
36. Governance over the FER's activities is through the Board of Directors; a supervisory body
consisting of twelve members headed by two Co-Chairpersons (First Deputy Minister of Economy and
Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank of Russia) with support of Executive Secretary of the Board.
Board meetings are conducted annually or more frequently as required.
37. The activities of FER are regulated by national laws and Bank rules and procedures. The Operational
manual of the FER provides clear definitions and instructions on the FER organizational structure,
functions of its management bodies, responsibilities of FER departments, job descriptions of staff,
employment policy, budgeting and accounting procedures.
Organizational Structure and Staffing
38. FER's management team is led by the Director General, supported by two Deputy Director Generals.
FER's functional organization is divided into four budgetary groups: general services and three project
groups. General services consist of the following departments: management, secretariat, contract,
finance and accounting. FER performs implementing functions for three on-going projects (FIDP, ESP
and EHDP).  The general services are responsible for procurement, disbursement, and financial
management and contract management. Costs of the general services departments are allocated to
operating costs categories of all projects in proportion reviewed and agreed by the PMC and approved by
the Board.
39. The Contract management department handles all issues of procurement, contract monitoring and
legal support.  Staff of the Department consist of the following:  Mlanager of the Procurement
Department/Senior Legal Counsel, Senior Procurement Officer, Procurement Specialist/legal counsel and
assistant. The manager of the Department reports to the Deputy Director.
40. . The Finance department is headed by Director of Finance supported by three staff, a disbursement
specialist and junior disbursement specialist and a specialist on sub-loan management. Included within
the responsibilities of the Finance Department are the preparation of project financial management reports
in conformity with Bank requirements and monthly reporting to the Ministry of Finance.



Page 70
The Accounting Department is headed by Chief Accountant who supported by two permanent staff
accountants and one full time consultant. The Chief Accountant reports directly to the Director General.
The Accounting Department has responsibility for the production of entity financial statement complaint
with Russia legislation and International Accounting Standards as well as compliance with tax legislation
Internal Control and Auditing Procedures
42. Internal Control Procedures of the FER are documented in operational manual, and control
procedures are also extensively defined under Russian legislation.
43. The management of all projects is through one ruble project account in which counterpart funds and
ruble denominated transactions from individual projects Special Accounts are held, with clear internal
controls surrounding reconciliation of the project account. This should be addressed in the terms of
reference of the consultant engaged in the integration of accounting and financial systems.
Conclusion
The overall conclusion is that FER has sufficient capacity to implement the proposed Forestry Sustainable
Pilot Project effectively. The following actions were agreed with the FER in order to meet Bank's
financial management requirement prior project effectiveness.



Page 71
Agreed Action Plan for strengthening financial management capacity
of the regions and federal PIU.
Item                              Responsible     Completed by    Bank's Action
Party_
1. Board of Directors of the FER  FER             September 30,
includes Project Management                        1999
Committee on the Forestry Pilot
Project to the governance structure of
the FER
2. Formalization of the reporting  FER            By end of        Approved
requirements for regions-participants.            appraisal
3. Project Management Reports     FER             By end of         Approved
(PMRs) format and content (including              appraisal
quarterly budgets) agreed with the
Bank.
4. Text of subloan agreements is  MOF, FER,       By end of         Approved
agreed between regional           Regional        negotiations
administration, FER and MOF and   Administration
approved by the Bank.
5. Training for regions on financial    FER       By effectiveness
management requirements.                                 _
6. Operating Manual on            FER             By Board         Approved
implementation of Forestry project is             Presentation
prepared for Bank's review and
approval.
7. Appointment of the auditor.    FER             By effective ness
The project is certified by a financial management specialist as meeting minimum financial management
requirements prior to Board Presentation.



Page 72
Annex 6: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Table C. Disbursement Schedule (US$ million equivalent)
(1) Consultants Services including Training           100%
(a) under component A of the Project  4.9
(b) under component B of the Project  3.0
(2) Goods and Equipment                               100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
(a) under component A of the Project  27.4     costs) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
(b) under component B of the Project  19.0     procured locally
Part B I (Khabarovsk)
Part B2 (Krasnoyarsk
Part B3 (Leningrad or reserve region)
(3) Works including technical services                80%
(a) under component A of the Project  0.85
(b) under component B of the Project  0.25
(4) Project Management Costs                 3.0      100%
(5) Unallocated                              1.0
(6) Front End Fee                            0.6
TOTAL                                       60.0



Page 73
Annex 6: Disbursement Table
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Table D. Estimated Disbursement Schedule (US$ million equivalent)
Seni-s-  .                                         _      _ _ _ =  _ _    _=   _    _
Year 1
2nd Semester                       0.5                                 0.5
Year 2
1st Semester                      4.5                                 5.0
2nd Semester                       7.0                                12.0
Year 3
1 st Semester                     1 1.5                              23.5
2nd Semester                      11.0                                34.5
Year 4
1" Semester                      11.0                                52.5
2nd Semester                       7.0
Year 5
1st Semester                      5.0                                 60.0
2d Semester                        2.5



Page 74
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Time taken to prepare the project                  6                   19
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)             02/1998              02/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     10/1998              09/1999
Negotiations                                    11/1998              10/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   02/1998              04/2000
Prepared by: CPPI (Center for Project Preparation and Implementation)
Preparation assistance: Project Development Loan funds of US$ 780,000 utilized by Russian
authorities; trust funds totaling US$ 1.003 million from Finland, Canada, Norway, Luxembourg and
Britain (included background studies). Budget funds total US$ 495,000 to date.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Marjory-Anne Bromhead                           Principal Natural Resource Management Economist
Andrey Kushlin                                  Forest Resource Specialist
Pekka Alhojarvi                                 Forest Industry and Training Specialist
Mahwash Wasig                                   Project Analyst
Jose Martinez                                   Procurement Analyst
Lydia Petrashova                                Financial Management Specialist
Stanley Peabody                                 Social Sector Specialist
Gennady Pilch                                   Lawyer
Benoit Bosquet                                  Economist



Page 75
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
A. Project Implementation Plan containing:
*  Project Design Summary
*  Background to the three Regions
*  Detailed Project Description
*  Detailed Project Costs
*  Project Implementation Calendar
*  Project Procurement Plan
*  Procurement Arrangements
*  Detailed Project Implementation Arrangements
*  Financial Management Capacity Assessment and Reporting Plan
*  Disbursement Forecasts and financing plan
*  Summary Economic and Financial Analysis
B. Other Documents
Environmental Assessment
Economic and Financial Analysis
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Social Assessment
Project Concept Document
C. Background Papers
Russia: Forest Policy during Transition, a World Bank Country Study 1997
Project Concept Documents 1997 and 1998
Pilot Forestry Regulatory System, Norwegian Forestry Group 1997
Clarification of market Options, Jaako Poyry 1997
Development of a Forest Health and Protection Strategy, Norwegian Forestry Group
1997
Regional Guidelines and Codes of Practice, Weber consultants 1997
Improvement in Fire Response Systems, Huntings 1998
Regulatory and Financial Reform Options, Backman 1998



Page 76
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
Operations Portfolio
Difference Btween expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                        disbursements a/                   Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                                   Supervision Rating b/
Project ID        Year                     Bonrwer                                       Purpose
IBRD        IDA               Cancel.          Undisb.          Orig  Frm Rev'd            De, Obj       Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 8
Active Proiects
RU-PE-8822             1993     GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                       EMPLOYMENT SERV. & S                                   70.00            0.00           10.00             24.32           3430            24.30       S              U
RU-PE-34579            1994     REP OF RUSSIAN FED                         LAND REFORM IMPL. SU                                   80.00            0.00            0.00             58.47           58.47            0.00       S              U
RU-PE-8839             1994     GOVT. OF RUSSIA                            ENTERPRISE SUPPORT                                    200.00            0.00            0.00            160AI0          156.10           0.00        U              U
RU-PE-8828             1994     MOF                                        FINANCIAL INSTITUTIO                                  200.00            0.00            0.00            130.32          130.32           98.32       U              U
RU-PE-8811             1994     REPOF RUSSIAN FED.                         AGRIC. REFORM IMPL.                                   240.00            0.00           80.00            92.22           172.22           73.05       S              S
RU-PE-8808             1994     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         HIGHvWAY REHAB & MAIN                                 300.00            0.00            0.00             35.67           29.70            0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8805             1994     RUSSIANFEDERATION                          OIL REHAB. II                                         500.00            0.00            4.72            151.84          156.56          151.84       U             HU
RU-PE-40409            1995     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         EMERG. OIL SPILL MIT                                   99.00            0.00            0.00             20.06           20.05            0.00       S              U
RU-PE-38572            1995     GOVT. OF RUSSIA                            TAX ADMINISTRATION                                      16.80           0.00            0.00              8.35            8.38            8.38       S              U
RU-PE-8827             1995     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         HOUSING                                               400.00            0.00            0.00            239.32          209.97            0.00       S              U
RU-PE-8826             1995     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         MANAGEMENT AND FINAN                                   40.00            0.00            0.00              4.79            4.8o            1.30        S             S
RU-PE-S823             1995     GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                       PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMEN                                   40.00            0.00            0.00             24.33           24.31            592        S              S
RU-PE-8821             1995     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME                                  110.00            000             0.00             66.85           22.12            0.00        S             S
RU-PE-SS06             1995     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         URBAN TRANSPORT                                       329.00            0.00            0.00             90.35           82.35            0.00        S             U
RU-PE-8803             1995     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         RUSSIA ENERGY EFFICY                                   106.50           0.00           36.50             63.40           99.91           43.41        S              S
RU-PE-45622            1996     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         COAL IAP                                               25.00            0.00            0.00             16.56           11.55            -.20        S              S
RU-PE-42622            1996     GOVT. OF RUSSIAN FEDERATI                  CAPITAL MARKET DEV.                                    89.00            0.00            0.00             80.10           40.10           13.10       U              U
RU-PE-38571            1996     GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                       MEDICAL EQUIPMENT                                     270.00            0.00            0.00             94.20           94.19            0.00        S             U
RU-PE-36973            1996     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         ENTP.HOUSINGDIVESTI                                   300.00            0.00            0.00            283.14           52.14            0.00        S             U
RU-PE-35764            1996     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         BRIDGE REHABILITATIO                                  350.00            0.00            0.00            279.12          14613             0.00       U              U
RU-PE-35761            1996     GOVT. OF RUSSIA                            COMMUNITY SOCIAL INF                                  200.00            0.00            0.00            179.90           55.91            0.00       S              U
RU-PE-8837             1996     GOVT OF RUSSIA                             STANDARDS DEVELOP.                                     24.00            0.00            0.00             13.16           11.37            0.00       NA             S
RU-PE-883I             1996     GOVT. OF RUSSIA                            LEGAL REFORM PROJECT                                   58.00            0.00            0.00             46.11           35.60            0.00        S             S
RU-PE-50891            1997     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         ELECTR. SECTOR REFOR                                   40.00            0.00            0.00             40.00           33 00            0.00       U              U
RU-PE-44200            1997     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         BUREAU OF ECON.POLIC                                   22.60            000             0.00             16.61           -1.49            0.00        S             S
RU-PE-42720            1997     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         ST. PETERSBURG REHAB                                   31.00            0.00            0.00             23.24           11.74            0.00        S             S
RU-PE-38573            1997     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         SOC. PROTECT. ADJ.                                    800.00            0.00            0.00            250.00          250.00            0.00       U              U
RU-PE-8825             1997     GOVT. OF RUSSIA                            EDUCATION INNOVATION                                   71.00            0.00            0.00             65.97           -1I11            0.00        S             U
RU-PE-8814             1997     GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                       HEALTH REFORM PILOT                                    66.00            0.00            0.00             63.91           15.20            0.00        S             U
RU-PE-50486            1998     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         COAL SECAL II                                         800.00            0.00            0.00            400.00          400.00            0 00        S             U
RU-PE-46496            1998     GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                       SOC. PROTECT. IMPI.                                    28.60            0.00            0.00             24.85            8.32            0.00        S             S
RU-PE-55137            1999     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         SAL III                                              1,500.00           0.00            0.00          1,200.00        1,200.00            000        U              U
RU-PE-50487            1999     RUSSIAN FEDERATION (MINIS                  STATE STATISTICS SYS                                   30.00            0.00            0.00             30.00            0.00            0 00        S              S
RU-PE-42722            1999     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                         HwY REHAB & MAINT 11                                  400.00            0.00            0.00            400.00            4.00            0.00        S             U
Total                                                                                                                           7,836.50           0.00          131.22          4,677.26        3,576.21          420.22
Active Projects          Closed Projects                Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                               3,028.05                  3,595.64                   6,623.69
of which has beet repaid:                                      8.92                    114.54                    123.46
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                               7,696.34                  3,501.71                  11,198.05
AmoLnt sold             :0.00                                                                0.00                      0.00
Ofwhichs repaid                                                 0.00                       0.00                      0.00
Total Undisbursed        :                                    4,677.26                     20.61                   4,697.87
a.  bltetsdcd disbsrsemerits to date miitus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Followittg the FY94 Attttual Review of Portfolio perfortnattce (ARPP), a lettei based system was iritiodticed (LIS - Iigliy Satisfactory, S = satisfactory. IU1 = usisatisfactory. HU - Itigltly utlsatisfactory): see proposed Itprovemeiits it Project l ad
Portfolio Performailce Ratitsg Metltodology (SecM94-90 1), AuguLst 23, 1994.
Note: Disbuirsement data is updated at tlte etsd of tle first week oftlt tioittltb.



Page 77
Russia at a glance                                                              9/8/99
Federation     Asia  income        Development dlamond
Populaticn. Mid-year (milions)                      146.9      473                           Life expectancy
(Atls melod, US$)
(Attas method. USS billins)                                                                   T
Population (I%)                                       0.2       0.1      1.1     |
M%,                                                                     GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimae (latestyearavallable, 1992-98)                                capita                         pnary
(% otpopulationbelow nationalpove*f line)
Urban poputn (% of total population)                  77        68        58
. (years)
(per 1,000 live bills)
Child malnubition (% of children under 5)                            .                     Access to safe water
(% of population)
f% ofpulaton age 15+)
(3 of schoo.Lage population)                                        Russia
..   Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             107        99       100
Economic: ratios
(US$ bigions)
Trade
Gross domesW sawigs/GDP                       ..       ..      24.2     23.5
Current account blance/GOP                    ..       .        0.7       0.5     Domestic      <             Investment
Total deWtGDP                                                  28.9. 289          Savings                     ivsmn
Present value of debttexpots                  ..       ..    114.5
Indebtedness
(average ann-al growth)                                                                -Russia
GNP per capita                       ..    -&7        0.8       -.4       0.9              Lower-middle-income group
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(%6 of GDP)
20
200
Services                                      ..       ..      57.3      62.1     2
-40
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..      14.4      15.1    iG0                    -     GDP
(average annuial growth)                                                         Growth rmtes of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..    -6.9        0.1      -6.1    20
Manufacturing                               ..       .. ..                *.    0
Pnvate consumption                            ..     4.3        1.9      -3.3    21
40-
Imports of goods and services                 ..    -1.6       12.0    -14.7                   Exports   -l Imports
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If clata are missing, the diamond will



Page 78
Russia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation I%)
Domes7tic prices                                ~2,000 
(% change)                                                                           .
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       14.8     26.8     ' 500
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       ..       16.5     11.6    1,.00
Government finance                                                                   500
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    n
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       34.8     32. 1              93   94   ss   9s   97    9
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       -1.5     -3.3                    GDP deflator    :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -9.2     -9.1
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                              1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                       .    88,676    74,762     100,000 T
Crude oil                                      .        ..   14,773    10,284      -0Soooot
Natural gas                                   ..       ..   16,419    13,339
Manufactures                                  ..       ..    9,450       8,436      c.000
Total imports (cif                              ..       ..   74,451    59,696       40000          1 1 1 1 1
Food                                           .        ..    13,400    10,017
Fuel and energy                                                2,064     1,654     2c.000
Capital goods                                  .        ..    18,900    15,856               t
92  93  94  95  ss  97  98
(1997=100)
(1997=100)                                                                    *Exports      *Imports
(1997=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UIS$ millions)                              1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (% I
Exports of goods and services                   ..            102,834    87,686     3 T|
Imports of goods and services                    .             90,065   73,844
Resource balance                                ..       ..   12,769    13,B41      2
Net income                                      ..       ..   -9,200   -11,991
Net current transfers                           ..       ..      -362      -400                  I                E R
Current account balance                         ..       ..    3,207      1,449
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..   -2,232   -14,817                                               |
Changes in net reserves                                   .      -975    13,368         92   93   94   95   96   97  9s
Memo:
(US$ millions)
(DEC, lbcal/S$)                   ..                5.8       9.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed             ..  38,316   126,037   178,869
IBRD                                          ..       0      5,053     6,337               G S192   A: 6,337
IDA                                           ..       0          0         0                                C: 19,335
Totaldebt service                               ..   8,753      6,679     9,141     |                              D:241
IBRD                                          ..       0        178       382               /
IDA                                           ..       0          0         0              /
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               *                                   F 828340
Official creditors                                   612      2,645       625                                     E: 60,930
Private creditors                                   3,786     4,984    20,691
Foreign direct investment                     ..       0      6,241     2,182
Portfolio equity                              ..       0      1,206     1,604
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       0      3,444     1,500      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements            ..        0      2,691    1,226     ~~~~~~~~~B - IDA  0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                 ..       0      2,691     1,226       BC - IMF                    G -Short-term
Prindpal repayments                           ..       0          0        66 
Netfiows                                      ..       0      2,691     1,160
Interest payments                             ..       0        178       316
Net transfers                                 ..       0      2,513       844
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/8/99



Page 79
Annex 11: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
1. In accordance with the World Bank Environmental Assessment (EA) policy, the proposed Sustainable Forestry
Pilot Project has been screened and placed into EA Category "B". It requires an appropriate environmental analysis
and elaboration of environmental management measures commensurate to anticipated impacts.
2. Bank safeguard environmental and social policies and procedures, particularly those related to Natural Habitats,
Water Resources Management, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples, Forestry, Disclosure of Operational
Information, have been applied during project preparation as appropriate. Copies of these environmental and social
policies and procedures have been provided and explained to the Russian countetparts.
3. As mandated by Russian regulations, a draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report has been prepared.
In accordance with the Russian law "On Ecological Expertise", the State Ecological Expertise (SEE) has been
arranged by the State Committee on Environmental Protection (SCEP) to review the project documentation,
including a draft EIA. Russian procedures require public discussion of the SEIE and this has been undertaken. A
draft EIA is available in the project files, but is yet to be finally approved by the SCEP.
4. Russian legislation, particularly the Forest and Water Codes, Federal laws "On Environmental Protection", "On
Wildlife Protection", "On Sanitary-Epidemiological Well-being of the Population", "On Fire Safety", "On Public
Associations", as well as other procedures, requirements and standards have been applied during project
preparation.
5. The proposed project continues Bank-Government dialogue on the economny-wide environmental issues in the
Russian Federation that started with the Environmental Management Project, the GEF Biodiversity Conservation
Project and particularly the Forest Policy Review. The review identified the major issues constraining sustainable
forest management and the project addresses several of these. Given the size of the forest sector in Russia and the
range of issues, the proposed project, in order to achieve "results on the ground" focuses policy reform and project
support in three representative pilot regions (see Annex 2 and PIP for a description of the pilot regions and major
constraints facing the forest sector in these regions).
6. The project objectives are described in Annex 1 and include:
*  Improved public sector management through support to policy reform and sustainable forest management
practices in the three pilot regions of Leningrad Oblast, Krasnoyarsk Kray and Khabarovsk Kray.
*  An improved enabling environment for private investment in sustainable forest utilization.
7. This project may be followed by a number of Bank-financed operations, including a Forest Sector Partial-Risk
Guarantee Facility, complemented by IFC-financed projects. A separate EA is being undertaken for the guarantee
facility currently under preparation, following EA procedures for Financial Intermediary-type (FI) projects.
8. In the course of project preparation the public contributed considerably withi comments and suggestions both at
Federal and regional levels. Public hearings were held in each region, during which a broad range of stakeholders,
including national, local and international NGOs, representatives of academia, regional forest agencies and the
private sector were involved (see also Annex 12). The Ad Hoc Forum of Forestry CEOs and NGOs, initiated by
Mr. Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank, also helped to create an enabling atmosphere for this dialogue
within Russia. The public has been supportive of the proposed project.



Page 80
9. The draft EIA has confirmed that no adverse environmental, social and other impacts will be caused by
activities under the project, if implemented correctly. Some risks are associated with procurement of goods in poor
compliance with existing certification, permitting and licensing standards. No major risks are associated with
procurement of works, of which there is very little under the project (connected with nursery establishment).
Compliance with applicable Bank and Russian policies and legislation as well as environmental due diligence in
implementation, will be specified in bidding documents and the project loan agreement.
10. Some concerns may also be caused by over-harvesting of and illegal trade in some non-wood products.
Although this is not a specific project-related risk, it will be monitored. Project activities will take place only in
areas where there are no potential land ownership or protection regime disputes. Wide geographic spread of the
project adds to its complexity and requires close supervision. Table I below summarizes potential risks and
proposes appropriate action which would be undertaken in the course of project implementation.
11. The draft EIA has proposed the following essential environmental management principles and due diligence
practices to be complied with during project implementation:
*  When preparing specifications for and procuring equipment, including computer, harvesting and processing
equipment, agrochemicals, planting material, fire-fighting foams, and solvents, compliance will be sought with
all applicable Russian environmental, safety, social, labor and other requirements, standards, permitting and
licensing procedures. If these are not available, then international standards acceptable to Bank shall apply;
*  The project will budget appropriate contingency funds for the preparation of EIA's for certain site-specific
project activities and implementation of any measures that may be required as a result of the State Ecological
Expertise (SEE); the disbursement of loan proceeds for such activities should be explicitly conditioned on a
positive conclusion of the site-specific SEE;
*  Selection of pilot areas and participating forest enterprises should be determined on the basis of transparent
selection and eligibility criteria, including companies' environmental track record and capabilities, and their
commitment to plan and implement environmental, social and other mitigation measures required under the
Russian legislation;
*  Should any activities that warrant special attention and/or action under the Bank safeguard policies, e.g.
procurement of pesticides (not presently envisaged under the project), preparation by the Borrower of measures
in accordance with Bank guidelines should be a condition of disbursement of requested funds;
*  The Forest Sector Partial-Risk Guarantee Facility under preparation is supporting elaboration of EIA and
environmental audit procedures and guidelines for projects and operations in the different types of forest
utilization; these will help to develop proposed insurance policies and products as well as provide basis to
decide in the future on approaches to address environmental liabilities.
12. As the Bank continues elaboration of environmental, social and other policies, and as project implementation
moves away from Moscow, it is recommended that the Bank support translation (into Russian) and training in
applications of its relevant policies and procedures during the Federal and regional project launch workshops.
13. The project implementing agencies are fully aware of the recommendations of the EIA and will ensure
compliance.



Page 81
Annex 11 - Summary Table of Project Benefits and Risks, Proposed Mitigation and Institutional Responsibilities
General Type of Activities to be            Benefit                          Risk               Proposed Mitigation               Key Institutional
Supported by the SFPP                                                                                                             Responsibility
PROCUREMENT OF
CONSULTANT
SERVICES:                       *   Improved credibility and    There are no direct adverse     No specific mitigation is required.    The FFS will lead project
transparency of economic,   environmental or social impacts                                  implementation, with the SCEP
I1. Selection of national &         financial, accounting policy    with anticipated activities, rather   Any potential institutional  contributing in accordance with
international consultants       and regulatory framework in   implementation of agreed actions   constraints will be mitigated by  its legal mandate.
2.  Drafting of regulations,        the forest sector comparable    may be hindered by lack of  appropriate design and sequence of
procedures, guidelines, etc.    with best international     commitment, poor coordination    major interventions that adequately    The Inter-Agency Steering
3.  Improvement of financial,       standards                    between major stakeholders, poor  reflect on existing legal and  Committee will provide a forum
accounting and planning                       . increased effectiveness and  communication between the  administrative frameworks; this will  for inter-agency coordination.
4.  Improvement of integrated       efficiency of the overall forest  executive and legislative  be further enhanced by
computerized data and           ecienagement                branches, inconsistencies in legal  administrative leadership in  Ad Hoc Forestry Forum will
information management          sector management            and administrative frameworks,   transparent implementation,     provide inputs from the private
and dissemination               capabilities, Including      poor compliance and enforcement  stakeholders coordination,      sector, NGOs, academia,
5.  Professional development        technical and human          as well as other macro political    involvement of NGOs and civil  regions and local communities.
and training in forest          dimensions, data an,         and economic factors           society, close supervision along the
utilization and forest          informahon collection,                                      agreed performance indicators.    Training will be provided
industry management             analysis, monitoring and                                                                      through transparently selected
6.  Development of forest           dissemination                                               Selection of consultants should be    institutions and organizations.
insurance system and        *  Introduction of international                                conducted in accordance with Bank
products                        best practices in forest                                    procedures and transparent selection
7.  Development of mandatory        planning, insurance,                                        and eligibility criteria particularly as
and voluntary certification     certification, inventory,                                   that relates to their sector and media
systems                         protection, including fire- and                             expertise, country experience and
8. Natlo .. a! sate!!ite im.^agery,    . ............ pest-fighting, reforestation              canabilities
meteorological data, maps,    *  Improved social, economic,
etc.                            financial viability of the forest
9. Communication services           sector through enhanced
revenue generation, increased
employment and export
potential as well as
attractiveness to national and
foreign investors
*   Significant knowledge transfer



Page 82
General Type of Activities                  Benefit                           Risk                     Proposed Mitigation          Key Institutional
to be Supported by the            _                                                                                                 Responsibility
STlPP
SFPPROCUREMENT O                     Introduction of new and more   There are no adverse social &  No specific mitigation is required.    The FFS will lead
PROCUREMENT OF                       efficient high technologies,    environmental impacts associated                               implementations, with certain
GOODS:                               equipment, practices in work    with the proposed activities rather  Unambiguous compliance with and    procurement activities managed
and data management, wood    poor compliance with and       enforcement of applicable Russian    by the CPPI of the EMP.
1.  Computer equipment and          and non-wood forest products  enforcement of existing        (where not available, international)
software, including GIS,         harvesting, processing,     certification, permitting &     requirements, procedures and       Appropriate government
printers, plotters, scanners,    packaging and marketing     licensing, environmental, health,  standards should be ensured.    agencies will conduct relevant
facsimiles, copy machines,    *   Improved effectiveness of  safety, application, etc.                                         routine functions in accordance
telephones, etc.                 inventory, fire- and pest   requirements, procedures and    Each type of equipment, planting   with their legal mandates.
2.  Furniture and office             detection monitoring and    standards pose potential minor  material and agro- and other
2.surplitues anfofcedeetion, monbiitoingan                     risks                           chemicals procured or to be used   The high-level IASC will have a
suppliharestinghtingocapabilitie                                                               under the SFPP should be subject to   mandate to resolve any potential
3.  Wood harvesting, processing      f More efficient and cost-                                  proper certification, permitting and    bottlenecks.
and transportation              effective management of                                      licensing procedures.
equipment                       forest resources                                                                                Close monitoring and
4.  Non-wood products                                                                                                                    mntrn  n
harvesting, processing,     *   Improved forest regeneration                                 Procurement list and bidding       supervision will be in place in
harvesting, proessing, etccapabilities and subsequently                                      documents should include detailed    accordance with agreed
equipment                        environmental and social                                    and well-justified environmental,  performance indicators.,
5.  Monitoring, including video     benefits, particularly from                                  health, safety and other necessary
and detection equipment          biodiversity, water quality,                                specification (energy and fuels
6.  Insecticides, pesticides, fire-  recreational and esthetic                                   efficiency, vibration, heat, noise,
fighting foams, solvents, etc.   points of view                                              etc.) as well as requirements for on-
7.  Planting material and seeds                                                                  job training and operational manuals
7. Planting material and seeds                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~to be provided with each type of
equipment.
Training of personnel will be
provided under the SFPP.
Close environmental, health and
safety monitoring of handling,
storage, application and discharge of
potential hazardous waste and
materials will be put in place. No
materials banned under international
agreements will be procured, and an
Exclusion List will be agreed upon.



Page 83
General Type of Activities to be             Benefit                          Risk               Proposed Mitigation                Key Institutional
Supported by the SFPP                                                                                                               Responsibility
PROCUREMENT OF
WORKS:                            *  Provide models in modern    No major adverse environmental   No comprehensive mitigation is    The FFS and its regional bodies
forest management          and social impacts are anticipated  required, rather:             and subordinate organizations,
Creation & modernization of  technologies, including for   from proposed activities.                                       regional authorities, the SCEP
1. Creaion & modern-zah on of         nurseries, reforestation, seed                             *   Elaboration and agreement on    and its regional bodies,
nurseries and green-houses        collection and preservation,   Any potential minor              Project Selection and Eligibility  particularly SEE and Inspection
2.  Testing of new  technologies      etc., which would be readily  environmental and social impacts  Criteria consistent with all  Departments.
for fire- and pest-fighting       available for replication in    are well understood, defined and  Bank safeguard environmental
3.  Testing   of   new    wood        the future hi other regions of  narrow in scope.                and social policies as well as  Other govemment ministries
harvesting   and  processing      Russia                                                          Russian legislation           and agencies and their regional
technologies                      Availability of   d        They may happen only due to                                        bodies as mandated by their
*                        .varvestn of moern  poor site and technology  *   Agreement on the proposed  functions.
wood harvesting, processing   selection, lack of enforcement   Exclusion List
and transportation         and non-compliance with existing  *   Compliance with all applicable   Essential role for the IASC to
equincreasen efficin  to   routine environmental, safety,      Russian (and if not available,    ensure vertical and horizontal
pnrease efficiency or      design and operational              international) design,        coordination and resolution of
production and reduce      requirements, procedures and        permitting, licensing,        any bottlenecks in a timely
environmental impacts in   standards. Lack and well-trained    environmental, health, safety    fashion.
selected areas and sites   and environmentally conscious       and certification requirements,
*   Increase in economic and   staff and workers can hinder        guidelines and standards
ecological value of forests    smooth implementation.      *   Certain environmental, health
and their products                                             and safety requirements should
*   Facilitate poverty alleviation  Additional problems may        be translated into bidding
& employment generation,    hypothetically occur due to over-  documents and spelled out in
encourage participation of    harvesting of and illegal trade in  contractual obligations
local people in forest     some of non-wood forest         *   All agro- and other chemicals
management and sustain     products.                           as well as fire-fighting foams,
indigenous knowledge                                           solvents, etc. that may be
Hypotneticaiiy, some concerns       purchased or used during the
may be also associated with
conflicts and claims related to
traditional land ownership.
Due to wide geographic spread of
the SFPP sub-project locations
and inadequate monitoring,
inspection and reporting
capabilities, some of potential
concerns may be difficult to
identify in a timely fashion thus
_______________________________________________   causing some problems to persist



Page 84
General Type of Activities to be           Benefit                        Risk               Proposed Mitigation              Key Institutional
Supported by the SFPP                                                                                                         Responsibilitv
for some time without proper  *  Implementation should be
mitigation.                      handled in accordance with
standards of Russia acceptable
"Prescribed/controlled burning"  to the Bank
techniques are prohibited by
Russian legislation and to this  *  Establishment an adequate
effect should duly authorized by  contingency fund to finance
appropriate executive and/or      EIA preparation and SEE and
legislative bodies               other types of state expertise as
well as to finance any required
mitigation and monitoring
activities



Page 85
Annex 12: SUMMARY STAKEHOLDER AND INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
Russian Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Introduction
1. The forest sector plays a key role in both economy and society in Russia. A stakeholder
assessment was carried out as part of the project preparation exercise, and a survey of forest
industries (in Krasnoyarsk) was undertaken during 1998. As part of the icdentification of the Forest
Sector Partial-Risk Guarantee Facility a survey of potential foreign investors was undertaken.
Government, NGOs and senior industry representatives together analyzed key constraints in the
sector through a forum convened by Mr. Wolfensohn, while NGOs supported a number of
workshops addressing sustainable forest management in Russia. All of these activities contributed
to project design. Most issues identified by stakeholders are perceived across all the pilot regions,
although the main concerns of interest groups' do differ in some respects.  The following
paragraphs therefore present the issues perceived in all regions by the different stakeholder groups,
and highlight points of particular concern in the regions. Two different groups of stakeholders are
described separately. These include: (i) official and non-official stakeholders, able to influence the
project and whose full participation and commitment is key to project success; and (ii) local
communities, who have an interest in forest management and utilization (Section A and B). The
annex then outlines the participation of the different stakeholders in preparation and
implementation, (Section C and D) and summarizes proposed monitoring of stakeholder
participation (Section E).
A. Official Stakeholders and Non-Government Agencies
Ministry of Finance
2. The Ministry of Finance has overall responsibility for Russia's fiscal performance, and is the
prime counterpart of the Bank. It is thus ultimately responsible for the Bank's lending strategy,
and for signature and amendment of legal documents. It has overall responsibility for ensuring that
Bank loan funds are used cost-effectively and are of benefit to the Russian people. It also assesses
the credit-worthiness and eligibility to borrow of regional governments. Given the financial
difficulties Russia has faced, and the difficulties in particular with projects involving on-lending to
the regions, the Ministry is cautious regarding the decentralization of project financial
management. The Ministry is fully aware of the importance of sustainable forest management and
utilization to the Russian economy, however, and is supportive both of this project and of the
partial-risk guarantee facility under preparation.
Ministry of Economy
3. The Ministry of Economy has responsibility for industrial policy including wood industries and
is responsible for coordinating preparation of the pilot project and of the guarantee facility. It too
has been very supportive of the project, and has chaired the interagency Supervisory Committee
responsible for project preparation.



Page 86
Federal Forest Service and Regional Forest Committees
4. The Federal Forest Service (FFS) has been operating for 200 years and has a well-established
institutional network with clearly allocated responsibilities at federal, regional, district and local
level. It also has a well-developed network of linked training institutes and research institutes that
have established a world class reputation in many areas of forest research. The FFS has strong
implementation capacity. In recent years the FFS has faced major difficulty (see introduction to
PAD and background documents including Forest Policy Review) with a decline in funding to
carry out essential forest management activities, and the need to adapt forest policy and practices to
the emerging market economy while assuring sound governance.
State Committee for Environmental Protection
5. The State Committee for Environmental Protection (SCEP) has overall responsibility for
environmental policy and for environmental impact assessment. As such, it has a strong interest in
sustainable forest management and supports the project objectives of increased transparency and
accountability in forestry and forest industry. It is the implementing agency for the ongoing
Biodiversity Conservation Project, much of which is being undertaken in forested protected areas.
Regional Administrations
6. Regional administrations have responsibility for regional policy including regional forest and
forest industry policy. They have acquired increasing autonomy from the Federal Government
over the past 10 years. While some administrations (including Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk) have
been able to assure sound fiscal management, others (such as Leningrad) have recently faced more
difficulties. The administrations are directly responsible for the revival of the regional economies,
of which forestry forms a part, and in the welfare of the populations of these regions. They also
have responsibility for assuring sound governance at the regional level.
Training and Research Institutes
7. Russia has a strong academic and research tradition and a well-established network of research
institutes. During the transition these institutes have faced increasing funding difficulties. Critical
to their survival is the development of cost-effective applied research. In general, however, there
are reasonably good linkages between academic institutions and forest administrations.
NGOs, National and Regional
8. Even before the transition, environmental advocacy organizations were active in Russia. They
have become more active since the transition, and strong partnerships have been created between
local and international NGOs. While several NGOs are now "project-implementers," the majority
still play a "lobbying" role. Several are now well-funded relative to official agencies. They are
able to play a key role in creating public awareness, and in monitoring governance issues.
Forest Enterprises, National, and International
9. Sustainable forest utilization is the key to sustainable forest management. Local forest
enterprises were largely privatized in the early 1990s. In the absence of clear regulations and good
governance, however, many effectively "mined" the forest area leased to them. Similarly, few
international forest enterprises have invested in Russia because of the unclear and changing,
regulatory environment. Increased investment in sound forest utilization is essential. The pilot



Page 87
project, together with the guarantee facility under preparation, aims tc provide the necessary
framework for sustainable forest utilization and increased investment. For Russia, as well, this
investment is key to increasing processing and value-added for the sector within the country, as
opposed simply to the production and export of logs.
B. Local Communities
Local Population Groups
10. The stakeholder assessment identified nine concerned local population groups:
(a)   Urban inhabitants with recreational interests in forests, including walking, gathering
mushrooms and berries, hunting and fishing;
(b)   Urban inhabitants with second homes and garden plots in rural areas, who use
forests for recreation and fuel wood;
(c)   Residents of small forest towns, with an interest in wood products for building as
well as fuelwood, and in non-wood forest products for subsistence, recreation and
supplemental income;
(d)   Employees in wood-processing industries and their families;
(e)   People living in logging settlements;
(f)   Employees of logging enterprises;
(g)   People living in isolated forest settlements who undertake forestry and commercial
hunting;
(h)   People in the northern areas engaged in traditional activities, generally of Russian
ethnic origin ("Old Russians), who have been settled in these areas for several
generations, or who stayed on after penitentiaries;
(i)    Aboriginal (or "small-in-numbers") people also engaged in traditional activities.
11. All of these groups have a long term interest in sustainable forest management; but for several
there may be conflicts between this objective and short-term revenue maximlization.
Other Interested Organizations
12. Other interested organizations include:
(a)   Regional and federal administrations are concerned with the welfare of local
populations, with economic development and maximizing tax revenues;
(b)   Industry representatives are concerned with profitable operations and a clear
regulatory framework for commercial activities;



Page 88
(c)   NGOs are concerned with sustainable forest management and the protection of
vulnerable social groups.
13. For each of these groups, sustainable forest management is. along term goal, but this may
conflict with short-term revenue-earning objectives.
Stakeholders in Leningrad Oblast
14. Leningrad Oblast has a population of 1.7 million. However its forests are affected by the large
urban population of St. Petersburg (population 4.8 million) for whom the recreational uses of the
forest are very important. It also has a developed forest processing industry and a relatively
intensive system of forest management. With a population density of 75 per square km it is by far
the most densely populated of the three regions.
15. Sixty-three percent of households in Leningrad Oblast have garden plots or dachas and use the
forest for leisure and also for non-wood forest products and fuel-wood. Employment in the forest
sector totals about 33,000, or 5 percent of total employment, but the number of people indirectly
dependent on forest industry is considerably larger. The regional Forest Service has 5,000
employees. There are no northern aborigines with special rights in Leningrad Oblast, though there
is a non-Russian minority (the vods). The principal social issues are unemployment and wage
arrears because of the broader economic difficulties facing the region.
16. A particular concern for Leningrad is the proximity to Western European markets, which
provides economic opportunities, but also opportunities for illegal logging and export of wood.
Work on certification, both mandatory and voluntary, is of particular interest in Leningrad, both to
the NGO community and to the forest authorities and forest industry. Development of clear
leasing arrangements and implementation of the regional forest code are high priorities.
17. The principal stakeholder issues on Leningrad, therefore, include balancing the needs of
managing the forests for recreation and for wood production (to be addressed through components
Al and A2), clarity on governance and a regulatory framework for forest industry (Al), and
improving management and technical skills for the forest processing industry in order to increase
investment and employment (B 1).
Stakeholders in Krasnoyarsk Kray
18. Krasnoyarsk Kray has a population of 3.1 million. Settlement is much sparser in this vast
region than in Leningrad. While recreational uses of forests are important for urban dwellers in the
vicinity of towns, the forests in much of the region are used only for hunting and gathering. The
forest has considerable value also for biodiversity, and as a carbon "sink". There are only 2.7
people per 100 hectares of forest, living mostly along the Yenisei river and its tributaries.
19. Sixty percent of Krasnoyarsk residents have garden plots or dachas and use the forest for
recreational purposes, for fuel wood and for collecting non-timber forest products. Employment in
the timber industry is about 50,000, or 5 percent of total employment, and is in logging and
primary processing rather than in pulp and paper or secondary processing; more of the population
dependent on forests is in small settlements with few other sources of employment than logging.
Employment in hunting and 'extensive' forest activities totals about 5,000. There is a very small
aboriginal population of about 1,300 people (Kets, Evenks and Selkups), almost all of whom live in



Page 89
the northern tundra, north of the areas where commercial harvesting takes place. Twenty-three
families of indigenous people located north of Krasnoyarsk may benefit fiom the non-forest timber
product component of the project, if they wish to do so.
20. The main social problems in Krasnoyarsk comprise increasing unemployment and wage
arrears, financial losses for many of the wood industries, and, particularly for the smaller logging
communities and difficulties maintaining social assets such as local heating systems and
kindergartens which were formerly the responsibility of the enterprises. The Kray administration is
developing a program to address this issue and will not borrow IBRD funding for this activity. An
additional difficulty for Krasnoyarsk has been greatly increased transport costs as a result of the
transition and much higher fuel prices. Krasnoyarsk's distance from major export markets,
combined with the structure of the industry in the region, which has emphasized low value-for-bulk
products, has posed special problems. On the other hand there has been relatively little illegal
logging, but game poaching has been an increasing problem and numbers of several species are
declining. The value for the "global climate" of Krasnoyask's forests is beginning to be
appreciated by the academic community in Russia as well as by the international community.
21. The survey of industries in Krasnoyarsk identified the development of new markets and
products adapted to these markets, modem business plans and employee training in business
methods and harvesting as highest priority for reviving the forest economy.
22. The principal stakeholder issues in Krasnoyarsk which the project would address include
improving the investment climate (Al, BI) and fire and pest management (A3).
Stakeholders in Khabarovsk Kray
23. Khabarovsk has a population of 1.9 million of whom 78 percent are urban. It is the only one of
the three regions to have a significant aboriginal population, totaling about 23,000, living in 80
settlements. The forests of Khabarovsk Kray contain the greatest species diversity of the three
pilot regions, but have also been most vulnerable to fire over recent years.
24. About 60 percent of Khabarovsk's inhabitants have garden plots or dachas. Employment in the
forest sector totals about 37,000 , or over 6 percent of total employment.
25. Of the aborigines, the Nanays (10,600) are the largest ethnic group; their traditional economy
was based on fishing. The Evenks (3,700) on the lower Amur River focus on hunting, fishing and
animal hunting, while smaller ethnic groups have earned their living frorm hunting and gathering.
Assimilation of these groups with Russians is on-going; half or more do not consider their national
language as their native tongue, while 50 percent or more marry Russians or other nationalities.
26. Aboriginal people have special rights established by regional legislation (the 1996 Law on the
Community of 'Small-in-Numbers' Northern Peoples). This law, encompasses regulations on
"territories of traditional nature resource use (TTUs) by small-in-numbers northern peoples,"
preceded the federal law, "On guarantees of the Rights of Indigenous Numerically Small Peoples
of the Russian Federation," which was signed in April, 1999. About 11 million ha in Khabarovsk
Kray have been demarcated as "territories of traditional economies" (TTEs) including 5 million ha
in the southern, forested part. There are 91 registered communities with TTEs of up to 750,000 ha
each. The legislation is strong in many areas; however, as in many countries, given the degree of
inter-marriage and the close links of "aboriginal" peoples with more recent settlers, there are
problems of definition A number of ethnic Russians ("Old Russians")also settled in rural areas in



Page 90
the Kray over the last two centuries, and adopted lifestyles similar to the original indigenous
peoples. Although they share the use of land in the TTUs, Old Russians are not recognized by the
federal or kray laws.
27. While populations of TTUs generally manage resources in a traditional manner, others have
perrnitted commercial logging on their land, inconsistent with the intent of the law and jeopardizing
traditional activities and the ecology of the area. Prior to the transition, many indigenous people
and Old Russians in the southem part of the Kray earned income through the sale of handicrafts
and non-timber forest products and had access to some medical and other services. Subsequently,
the trading organizations collapsed, as did social services, and the plight of forest people has
worsened. This collapse of previous economic ties has prompted indigenous groups to turn to
commercialization. None of the selected pilot lezkhozes or enterprises is in a district with TTUs
managed by indigenous people, but support for processing and marketing non-timber forest
products in the project will provide economic opportunities for some traditional people in the
kray..The terms of trade of this component will be supervised to ensure that the traditional people
(indigenous and Old Russian) benefit adequately.
28. Khabarovsk is well located for exports to the Asian markets, and was in principle in a good
position to adapt to the transition. However it has been affected also by the economic problems in
Japan and South Korea. Two-thirds of those employed in the forest sector live in settlements of
1000 or less, with few alternative employment opportunities to forestry. With the slump in wood
harvesting most of these settlements have faced economic hardship.  A further problem  in
Khabarovsk in 1998 has been catastrophic fires, affecting 1.6 million ha and causing damage to
fauna and flora as well as to the timber industry and to forest communities.
29. NGOs are particularly active in the Khabarovsk forests because of their global importance for
biodiversity, and also because of the relatively large numbers of indigenous peoples in the Kray.
The regional administration is committed to the recovery of the sector and to sustainable
management.
30. The principal social issues, as in the other regions, stem from the declining employment
opportunities in forest-based industries. Communities in Khaborovsk stand to gain from improved
forest management (components Al through A4), from the increased employment opportunities
that should arise from training under component BI and from assistance to non-wood forest
products development under B2.



Page 91
C. Stakeholder Participation in Project preparation
31. The following table summarizes how the different stakeholder groups lhave participated in
project preparation. A detailed list of stakeholders consulted is provided in Attachment 1 to this
Annex 12.
Table 1: Summary of Stakeholder Participation During Project Preparation
Consultation Activity    Stakeholders Involved         Duration               Output
Stage 1: sector
assessment              *   Govemment agency         January 1996-       *   information
*   Formal and informal    representatives at the    October 1997            gathering; profiles
interviews             national and regional levels                     of key issues and
*   Inter-sectoral      *   Local consultants                               sites; institutional
steering committees  *  NGOs (national, regional)                       analysis;
*   Small group / focus   *   Local governments                         *   Working papers
group discussions    *   Institutes and academics                    *   Consensus on key
*   Workshops           *  Donor agencies                                    constraints and
*   Local consultant                                                         opportunities
contributions
*   Forest Policy
Review
*   Information on
ongoing donor
activities
Stage 2: proiect
preparation             *  Government agency         June 1997- August   *    Analysis of
*  Formal and informal     representatives (at regional  1999               project concepts,
interviews             and national level)                              administrative
*  Working groups       *  Institutes and academics                         structures,
*  Public hearings with  *  Project consultants                             investment
key decision-makers  *  Regional stakeholders                            alternatives
at regional and     *  Forest industries (local and                  *    decision-making
national level         international)                                    by key stakeholders
*  Survey of forest     *  Local NGOs                                       investment
enterprises in                                                           strategies and
Krasnoyarsk and of                                                       packages;
potential investors                                                      undertaking
decision-analysis
process with key
stakeholders
Stage 3: Appraisal -
negotiations            *  Ministry of Finance,      September-October  *   Approval of project
*  Formal discussions      Ministry of Economy,      1999                    appraisal package
Federal Forest service,                          by Bank
Regional administrations                         management and
Loan documents by
Russian authorities



Page 92
D. Stakeholder Participation in Project Implementation
32. Table 2 below summarizes the interest of the different stakeholders in the project and their role
in project implementation.



Page 93
Table 2: Summary of Stakeholder Analysis - Interests and Influence in Project Implementation
Stakeholder Groups          Interests at stake in relation to the project and impact of project on          Influence and participation of
stakeholder                                                 Stakeholder
Ministry of Finance       *   Increased tax revenues from more vibrant forest sector as a result of the project  *   Overall financial responsibility for
*   Sound taxation structure and regulatory framework in place for forest sector   repayment of loan
*   Regional governments improve creditworthiness                              *   Responsible for loan negotiations and
amendments
*   Responsible for assessing financial
creditworthiness of regions
Federal Forest Service    *   Sustainable, multipurpose management of forest resources                   *   Overall responsibility for
*   Sufficient revenues for sound, efficient forest management                     implementation of Part A of project
*   Improved governance in the forest sector                                   *   Deputy Chair of the interagency
Supervisory Committee for project
._________________________________________________________________________  implementation
Ministry of Economy       *   Coordination of forest industry policy and revival of forest industry      *   Shapes industrial policy
*   Responsible for preparation of forest sector partial-risk guarantee facility  *   Chairs interagency Supervisory
*   Chair of interagency Supervisory Committee for project preparation             Committee for project implementation
*   Chair of the Russian Working Group of the Forestry CEO Forum
State Committee for       *   Development and coordination of environmental policy                       *   Conducts environmental review of
Environmental Protection    *   Responsible for project-level environmental review process                   project-specific investments
*   Implementing agency for the Environment Management Project that provided   *   Assures project is consistent with
emergency assistance for forest pest management in Krasnoyarsk                 environmental regulations
*   Supervision of the Center for Project Preparation and Implementation that  *   Member of the interagency Supervisory
administered project preparation activities                                    Committee for project implementation
*   Ensures complementarity with on-
going Biodiversity Conservation
Project
INdiulala anu iniernaiionai   *   iobbying and fundraising to increase public awareness at national and international   *  participation in steering committees at
NGOs                          level about the importance of sustainable management of Russia's forests       regional and national levels
*   Bank participation in the Russia forestry project can be used by NGOs to increase   *  participation in public awareness
their visibility and influence on international community                      activities
*   need to play a positive, supportive role



Page 94
Regional Administrations   *   Increase of regional tax revenues from forestry and forest industry       *   Overall responsibility for
*   Welfare of pilot regional populations                                          implementation of component B and
*   Management of regional policy in all areas                                     member of the interagency Supervisory
*   Revival of regional economy                                                    Committee
*   Responsible for repayment of sub-loans
to Ministry of Finance
*   Responsible for preparing
endorsement, by regional parliaments,
of key financial and regulatory reforms
Research Institutes       *   Applied research into forestry, forest policy and forest industry          *   development of improved approaches
to forest management and monitoring
Technological Institutes  *   Maintenance of strong reputation in training                               *   Coordination of training programs in
and Training Institutes   *   Enhancement of training facilities and skills                                  wood processing, processing of non-
*   Improved financial status                                                      timber forest products and Enterprise
management
*   Need to assure good quality training
including use of outside expertise
where appropriate
Regional Forest           *   Mandate for forest management at regional and district level               *   Line responsibility for implementation
Committees and Forest     *  Need to increase revenues for forest management                                 of component A
Management Districts                                                                                     *   Success of component dependent on
(lezkhozes)                                                                                                  high degree of commitment and
professionalism
Regional Parliament       *   Responsible for overall regional policy and legislation including regional forest and  *   Approval of regional forest code
(Duma)                        forest industry policy                                                     *   Approval of sub-loan agreement
*   Responsible to electorate including population economically dependent on   *   Approval regional policy measures
forests/forest industries                                                      affecting forest industry
Regional NGOs             *   Increased transparency in forest management                                *   Participation in regional steering
*   Increased funding of NGOs                                                      committee
*   Increased awareness of their activities                                    *   De facto monitoring of implementation
*   Participation of representatives of indigenous people                      *   Participation in public awareness
activities



Page 95
Local timber and non-     *   Pilot enterprises would receive equipment for training purposes            *   Pilot enterprises must maintain sound
timber pilot forest       *   Other enterprises wold be eligible for training in harvesting/processing/business  management practices and use
enterprises                   management                                                                     equipment for training purposes
*   Other enterprises need to utilize
training opportunities
*   Regional forest enterprises need to
respect forest management/leasing
conditions to assure sustainable forest
management
Local communities         *   Forest communities seek employment and livelihood from forest management   *   Forest community members will seek
utilization                                                                    training and form "core" of skills
*   Urban communities use forest recreation and forest fringes for garden plots and  upgrading to attract increased
food supplement                                                                investment
*   Local population will need to respond
to well-designed public awareness
programs for fire management
*   Improved governance is dependent on
local commitment, dependent in turn
on clear, transparent rules and
improved financing for forest
management and investment climate
for forest utilization to be provided
under the project



Page 96
E. Monitoring
33. Project monitoring indicators are provided in the project design summary (PAD
Annex 1), and most of them require the commitment of stakeholders. The following paragraphs
summarize monitoring indicators which illustrate participation of key stakeholders.
Forest Policy Reform (Component A.1)
(a)   Development of regional forest codes and regulations would be the task largely of legal
experts: however the project provides for a baseline workshop to discuss options, and publication
and dissemination of the codes and regulations. Participation in the workshop would be recorded,
and the output indicators would also record dissemination of material, which would be publicly
available at regional and district level.
(b)  Improved regulations for forest utilization and leasing; again the drafting work would be the
task of legal experts, which is already ongoing.  The project provides for workshops and
dissemination of material. The quarterly project reporting system would confirm whether these
had actually occurred.
(c)  Improved forest financing system; this is the most complex of the elements of forest policy
reform and will require the involvement of taxation authorities, regional and federal authorities as
well as expert groups. The project provides for inter-agency consultations and participation in
preparation of the revised guidelines. Incidence of the workshops would be monitored through the
quarterly reporting system.
(d) and (e) Pilot forest certification and pilot forest fire insurance schemes. Both of these pilot
activities also provide for monitoring and sharing of results at federal and regional level; the
dissemination of results would be recorded through the quarterly reporting system.
Forest Inventory, Information and Land-Use Planning (Component A.2)
34. The component, successfully implemented, will result in preparation and implementation of
improved forest land use plans which will be accessible both to forest industries and to the
community at large in a "user-friendly" form. Public consultations through the ecological expertise
will also be part of the forest management plan preparation process. Project monitoring would
record the achievement of these outputs.
Improved Forest Fire and Pest Management, Regeneration (Components A.3 and A.4)
35. Eighty percent of forest fires in Russia are anthropogenically caused (similar to the US fifty
years ago), largely through the carelessness of people who use the forests for recreational purposes,
or burning of grass-cover in garden plots near forested areas. Improved public awareness about the
causes of forest fires and commitment of local communities to control these is essential. The
project supports public awareness activities, and implementation of these would be monitored.
Local communities play a role in early detection of pest outbreaks, though treatment is largely the
responsibility of the official authorities. The incidence of public reportings will be monitored and
publicized. Regeneration is part of the forest management cycle and is the responsibility of forest
users. The local forest authorities would use their normal reporting system to assure that these
activities are carried out. Regeneration of fire and pest damaged areas is the responsibility of the
forest authorities. Regeneration activities will be monitored and reported.



Page 97
Improwved Forest Utilization (Components B.1 and B.2)
36. The project provides for training in improved forest utilization (harvesting and processing) and
business management through short academic training courses and on-site practical training in pilot
enterprises, which would also serve as models for effective forest utilization and commercial
management. The quality of training would be monitored by trainees' evaluation reports, while
regional statistics on forest enterprise performance would provide evidence of 'impact indicators'.
For the non-timber forest products a similar approach would be used.  In one lezkhoz in
Krasnoyarsk, in which a pilot enterprise for non-wood forest products has applied to participate in
the project, comprising a community of 23 families of Kets, they would participate in and benefit
from the opportunity to increase their income from better processing of non-wood forest products.
Workshops are provided for them. They are followed and assisted by social workers in the area.
Indigenous peoples groups are overall very well known in the pilot area; the benefits to them in
terms of increased employment and income would be monitored.



Page 98
LIST OF STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTED DURING PROJECT PREPARATION.
Government agencies (federal level)
Ministry of Economy
Ministry of Finance
Federal Forest Service
State Committee for Environmental Protection
Ministry of Natural Resources
Federal Center for Project Finance
Government agencies (regional level)
Administration of Krasnoyarsk Kray
Administration of Khabarovsk Kray
Government of Leningrad Oblast
Forest Committee of Krasnoyarsk Kray
Forest Department of Khabarovsk Kray
Forest Committee of Leningrad Oblast
Timber Industry Committee of Krasnoyarsk Kray
Timber Industry Committee of Leningrad Oblast
Khabarovskglavles
North-Western Forest Inventory Enterprise
East-Siberian Forest Inventory Enterprise
Far-Eastern Forest Inventory Enterprise
Krasnoyarsk State Center of Forest Protection
Non-government organizations (national level)
Greenpeace-Russia
WWF-Russia
IUCN-Russia
Socio-Ecological Union
Biodiversity Conservation Center
Non-government organizations (regional level)
Far-Eastern Association for Non-Wood Forest Products
Krasnoyarsk Association for Non-Wood Forest Products
Friends of Siberian Forests (Krasnoyarsk)
Sredneamgunsky Lespromkhoz (Khabarovsk)
Muknensky Lespromkhoz (Khabarovsk)
Forest Products Ltd (Khabarovsk)
Amur-Pivo JSV (Khabarovsk)
Fauna JSV (Khabarovsk)
Agora JSV (Khabarovsk)
Nanay District Consumer Society (Khabarovsk)
Predivinsky Lespromkhoz (Krasnoyarsk)
Ilyinsky Lespromkhoz (Krasnoyarsk)
Shiversky Lespromkhoz (Krasnoyarsk)
Lenobllesprom (St. Petersburg)
Lesinvest (St. Petersburg)
Firo JV (St. Petersburg)
Priozersky DOZ JSV (St. Petersburg)



Page 99
Nord-Kemp JSV (St. Petersburg)
OAO Svetogorsk
Dalles JSC (Khabarovsk)
Academic/Research Institutes (national level)
All-Russian Research Institute on Forest Fire Protection and Forestry Mechanization
Sukachev Forest Institute
Russian Institute of Forest Specialists Education and Training
Research and Design Institute on Economics, Production management and Information on
Forestry, Pulp & Paper and Wood working Industry
All-Russian Research and Information Center for Forest Resources (ARICFR)
Moscow State Forest University
Research Institute on Forest Economics and International Timber Market
Academic/Research Institutes (regional level)
Khabarovsk State Technological University
Siberian State Technological University (Krasnoyarsk)
St. Petersburg Forest Technical Academy
Khabarovsk Forest Technical School
Vyazemski Leskhoz-Technical School (Khabarovsk)
Khabarovsk Branch of the Institute of Technical Training for Forestry Employees in Siberia and
the Russian Far East
Institute for Upgrading Qualification of the Forest Industry Employees (Krasnoyarsk)
Krasnoyarsk Forest Technical Specialized Secondary School
Divnogorsk Forestry College (Krasnoyarsk)
Lisinsky Leshoz/College (St. Petersburg)
Leningrad Forestry Research Institute
Far Eastern Forestry Research Institute
Siberian Timber Industry Research Institute
International Organizations
US Agency for International Development
US Forest Service
The John D. and Katherine T. MacArthur Foundation
World Wide Fund for Nature
International Model Forest Network
International Finance Corporation
Harvard Institute for International Development
Timberjack
Jaakko Poyry Consulting
Thomesto
Norwegian Forestry Group
CH2M Hill
Abbott AG
The Tiger Network
UK Know-How-Fund
Pacific Rim Taiga Inc.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30242
i2l~~~~~~~~~SUTIAL FOETYOIORROET*
BOREAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BDREAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOREALEACH
NORWAY                                                                                 iDA
-   ~~~~~   -4                                       P500555 ~~~~~~~~~P    ONTOUbLS ARES
NETHERLANES DEMR                 SWEDEN
A              -k
GERMANY                                FNA DK-do64
'F'                               p~~~~~~~~F IN  A  
RUSSIAN 
V     'I ATVIA   AOObos
pPOLAND  \E; lUTHUANeP
B ELARUS 
<~~~~
UKRAI NE                                -yd'4                                        -
KA ZAK H S TA N
SAAYSEPP   200 240 360405 STOM                                                                                                            M        NGDERI 
APRIL 2000






IBRD 302A3
R W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   ~RTONJQT~~MRC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SWEDEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LO~e~
F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Mk  1~\RA                                  ~    ~     ~    ~    T  QN 
~~~~~~l POLA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ I~                                                   4T~AL~~A
ANRMENIA-                                                           CI~4, Ara/I                                                                                                                 D.P ___    R
ISLAMt-REP. --~~~~~  --    ,'I -QOON                                                                          G       0 -L
AERMABN
IRA     A,  






'v                        ~~~~~~~~~~28'                        30'        "                     32'                                 34'                                  36'
POLANDHUANu07   N       j                         Th is mop rwas produced by the B                                                          RUSSIAN   FEDERATION
~~~,               p~~~~Vo               Map Design Unit of The WVorcldBnk
>xBEARUSex -ttfflio t  ,                                   iThe boundaries, colors,denominations                  SUSTAINABLE  FORESTRY  PILOT PROJECT
US                                          and anyother ifraonshown on                                       S     S A      N       B E F          R    S    R         IO           R     J C
\>,4>N2-s'<ieS>R.A~N    this mop do not imply, on the part of    /                                 FOREST SECTOR IN LENINGRAD OBLAST
R U    [,A N   ~The World Bank Group, any judgmentFO                                              E TS C              RIN L          I G       AD        BA      T
r>  -   1 on the legalstofus of any lerritory,or
UKRAINE                F _Q4R ER'Et  g    onyendorsementoracceptanceof    (                 K,      w                               0            25            50            75           100
such boundaries.
"Q.'-~!        'K'                                 <                                                                               d t- < ;i0;00:00 00;:;f 0<0:  ', KILOMETERS
--3X1. s                  .FINLAND   /
2. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - P                                     rio z e rs k   8   ihi      3POETDAESPN      EETDCTE
>5.Lua1.iokIRCH OBL'?       KAZAKHSTAN           To LAhti
26'
-60,
-j ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~6-
NOVGOROD                                M~-  AIL ROADS
PROPOSED PRIORITY LESKHOZES                                                                                    D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORESAT TYPES:OAD
1 . Northwestern    7. Kingisepp                                                              PROECEDARES                                                                     SLECEDCIIE
2. Priozersk         8. Tikhvin                                                                PRTCEDAESPINE                                                                  SECTDIIS
3. Roshchino         9. Boksitogorsk                                                          PROPO__ SED PRIORITY LESKHOZES (FOREST   ~ ' SPRUCE                            OBLAST CAPITAL
4. Lisino            10. Volkhov                     T. Pskovj A1                             PR NAGEMENT DISTRICTS) (SEE LIST)
>     5. Lua                11  Kirovsk                                                                                                                  BIRCH             ----OBLAST BOUNDARIES 
6. Gatchina                                         P K      Vi                                PROPOSED MOBILE FOREST FIRE                         ASPEN             --NEN TO A
58'ADSBUDRE0
261                                                        I30'                                                                             3.4'                  BOUNDARIES~~~~0  34  36' 
o                                  AIITI                                                                                                                             






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
DOMINANTE    SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY PILOT PROJECT
FOREST TYPES:
LTJ PINE           FOREST SECTOR IN KRASNOYARSK KRAY (SOUTH)                                                           K'  ,'
SPRUCE                  OPRO TECTED AREAS
FIR                        T     PROPOSED PRIORITY LESKHOZES (FOREST MANAGEMENT DISTRICTS) [SEE uSn        7        )       C
SPRUCE/FIR               -3      PROPOSED PILOT ENTERPRISE TRAINING SITES:
LARCH                              P 3-  FOR IMPROVED TIMBER HARVESTING AND PROCESSING                   7          R      a          r
,JE   S13ERIAN PINE       E        PFOR IMPROVED NON WOOD FOREST PRODUCTS                            p J        I           <A   .%L.
E BIRCH                     _   MAIN ROADS               (3   OBLAST CAPITAL                               '                    '           '       "
ASPEN          ,           -,   RAILROADS                     OBLAST BOUNDARIES                          /                   -- ,A
BURNED AREAS                 D   SELECTED CITIES        -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                                   3 -I
ROCKY AND BARREN                        50         L0          150        20SKILOMETERS                  KAZAKH-'
I          I           I                            RAZACA STAN                 - '      MONGO"IA      '
V 'aLiN      A.B1E VE     K      a I   Asd,a raaAaaAaL
TOMS
-56'  T.: Z?VA                                                                                                    C  o'-ak                  T.aaiBnkT npaYLJ5-5
a- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~6
/      .Ab
----a-,                                                                                                          C~~&
90                    92                             94'                             PT'-PT                                                "A






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY PILOT PROJECT
X t  -<   ,    4              uFOREST SECTOR IN KHABAROVSK KRAY (SOUTH)
PROPOSED MOBILE FOREST FIRE BRIGADES               PROTECTED AREAS
PROPOSED PILOT ENTERPRISE TRAINING SITES:
EOS>  A - - t - - -   ,'z'02f ::i;          3t      FOR IMPROVED TIMBER                       10    PROPOSED PRIORITY LESKHOZES
-;'   R L S S I A N       <   00:: 0  :         r A      HARVESTING AND PROCESSING                         (FOREST MANAGEMENT DISTRICTS) (SEE LIST)
E 0 E A  0 N                                                                                                                AIR S c: V  FOR IMPROVED NON-WOOD
T - .MrA   ! :8   \  0           mP^|1FOREST PRODUCTS                                   -        IROADS
_41  ~         ~           .                                                                                            -- RAILROADS
'4  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~DOMINANT FOREST TPES:                                                            0   SELECTED CITIES
3  -\                             V     P   ' . z:  gz   a   _  PINE      _   LARCH          -    BIRCH                        )   OBLAST CAPITAL
->         . - ~ X<_2 Li ZE~ /X~lSPRUCE  KOREAN PINE  + +   BURNED AREAS                 OBLAST BOUNDARIES
M O 0 G   OLl P   A-  -' <  C H I N A         .             SPRUCE/FIR        OAK            Ii   ROCKY AND BARREN                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
134-                                                                             142-                       144~-   - 
PRIM ORSKI                                                    P~~~~~~~~KLOETR
1"4 36 ~                                                          ST                              45                              145 p5
T.    ,
CP~~~~~~~~~
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



