E-378
The Russian Federation
Proposed IBRD-financed
Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSMENT REPORT
May 1999
(with Annexes updated in October 1999)
This EIA Report has been prepared by Mr. Andrei D. Barannik, International EA & Business
Development Adviser, with all reasonable skill, care and diligence, taking into account available
information and the time devoted to it by the agreement with the client. We disclaim any
responsibility to the client and others in respect of any matters outside the scope of the above. This
report is confidential to the client and we accept no responsibility of whatsoever nature to third
parties to whom this report, or any part thereof, is made known. Any such party relies upon the EIA
Report at its own judgment and risk.






2
Table of Content
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
BASELINE CONDITIONS IN PROJECT AREA AND IDENTIFED PROBLEMS
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
PROJECT RISKS AND BENEFITS
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
ANNEXES
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



I



3
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
In accordance and consistent with the World Bank Environmental Assessment (EA)
policy, the proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project (SFPP) has been screened and
placed into EA Category "B", which requires an appropriate environmental analysis and
elaboration of environmental management measures commensurate to anticipated
impacts.
Bank safeguard environmental and social policies and procedures, particularly those
related to Natural Habitats, Water Resources Management, Pest Management, Indigenous
Peoples, Involuntary Resettlement, Forestry, International Waterways, Disclosure of
Operational Information, have been applied during project preparation as appropriate.
Copies of these environmental and social policies and procedures have been provided and
explained to the Russian counterparts.
As mandated by Russian regulations, a draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
report has been prepared. In accordance with the Russian law "On Ecological Expertise",
the State Ecological Expertise (SEE) will be arranged by the Russian State Committee on
Environmental Protection (SCEP) to review the SFPP, including a draft EIA,
documentation.
Russian legislation, particularly the Forestry and Water Codes, laws "On Environmental
Protection", "On Wildlife Protection", "On Sanitary-Epidemiological Well-being of the
Population", "On Fire Safety", "On Public Associations", as well as other procedures,
requirements and standards have been consistently applied during project preparation.
The proposed SFPP continues Bank-Russian dialogue on the economy-wide
environmental issues that has started with preparation and implementation of the
Environmental Management Project (EMP), a number of GEF operations and particularly
Russian Federation Forest Policy Review (RFFPR). The recently reviewed Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) has reconfirmed five strategic actions for the environment
sector in Russia.
The project reflects on the legal, management, technical, financial, environmental and
social deficiencies and problems identified by the RFFPR and aims at addressing them
through implementation of sequence of coherent institutional and technical capacity
building activities and pilot operations on the Federal and regional levels. The project
strives to achieve four broad objectives:
*  Support ongoing policy reform in the forest sector and to promote environmentally
and socially sustainable forest management practices
*  Support local forest districts and demonstrate economic, environmental and social
advantages of credible forest management and internationally recognized practices of
forest production cycle; these two objectives will contribute to a broader economic
recovery
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



4
*  Provide training for improved management, enhance efficiency of operations and
open new business opportunities for selected forest enterprises in three pilot regions;
this will be replicated in other regions of the country at a later stage
*  Help to establish institutional climate attractive to foreign and local investors that in
turn will pave way to a number of other Bank-supported operations in the sector.
A number of project alternatives and Bank instruments have been discussed during the
RFFPR and SFPP preparation to assist with the recovery of the Russian forest sector. It
has been agreed that the SFPP will focus on creating enabling legal and regulatory
framework and management on the Federal and regional levels as well as support critical
investments to demonstrate advantages of internationally recognized technologies and
practices in production, processing and marketing of wood and non-wood forest products.
This project may be followed by a number of Bank-financed operations, including a
Partial Risk Guarantee Facility, and an "adaptable program loan", complemented by IFC-
financed projects.
The proposed SFPP consists of two main Components A and B, which will be
implemented primarily at the Federal and regional levels respectively. It will finance
procurement of national and international consulting services, computer equipment and
software, including GIS, equipment for wood and non-wood products harvesting,
processing, packaging to be used for training purposes. Procurement of works and
support for other activities, including reforestation efforts, creation of nurseries and
related small-scale pilot operations will be also financed under the SFPP.
The project preparation has integrated continuous public consultation process both on
Federal and regional levels as required by the Bank and Russian regulations. Public
consulted has included national, local and international NGOs, representatives of
academia, regional agencies and the private sector. The Ad Hoc Forestry Forum, initiated
by Mr. Wolfensohn, created an enabling atmosphere for this dialogue. The public has
been supportive of the proposed SFPP and some of its recommendations have been
addressed in the project's design.
It is evident that implementation of the proposed SFPP will provide measurable benefits,
which will accrue at global, national, regional and local levels. The SFPP will help to
ensure sustainable management of vast Russian forests and preserve biodiversity,
implement models of effective and efficient forest management, and develop new
market-based instruments and mechanisms that will be readily available for replication in
other parts of the country. The project will create opportunities for community
development, poverty elimination as well as empowering and involving people in
implementing activities, which affect their future.
Potential project's risks, which have been identified in the course of preparing the SFPP
and draft EIA, are primarily associated with potential for further worsening of overall
economic, political and financial situation, limited  commitment to addressing
environmental problems, inadequate compliance and enforcement, weakening of vertical
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



5
and horizontal coordination and management, wide geographic spread of the project,
which adds to its complexity and requires close supervision.
These and other general risks are addressed by an appropriate institutional design of the
SFPP and logical sequence of activities it will support, proposed mechanisms for close
and transparent coordination between all stakeholders as well as close project
implementation and performance monitoring.
An Interagency Supervisory Committees (IASC), consisting of high-level representatives
all relevant ministries, agencies and authorities, will be established both on the federal
and regional levels. The IASC coordination function and participatory operation will be
further enhanced by close interaction with the Ad Hoc Forestry Forum, representing the
private sector, non-governmental organizations and academia, that has been instrumental
in the RFFPR and the SFPP preparation.
The Federal Forestry Service, the SCEP as well as their regional bodies and subordinate
organizations will be primarily responsible, as mandated by Russian regulations and
procedures, for the SFPP implementation. Regional executive authorities as well as other
relevant ministries and agencies, namely Ministries of Economy, Finance, Natural
Resources, Health, Agriculture, etc., will be closely engaged in selected activities in
accordance with their legal mandates and implementation arrangements. The SFPP will
receive administrative procurement support from the Center of Project Preparation and
Implementation, established under the EMP.
The project draft EIA has confirmed that no adverse environmental, social and other
impacts will be caused by activities under the SFPP, and in this respect preparation of an
environmental management plan (EMP) is not required. Many activities do not require
environmental mitigation and monitoring at all. It is obvious from the project description
that the SFPP itself should be perceived as a sort of a comprehensive EMP, which has
been developed to address general institutional and technological deficiencies identified
by the RFFPR.
Potential environmental impacts from site-specific activities, if any, are well understood
and defined as well as they will be localized and narrow in scope. Nevertheless, to
contain any potential for minor direct and indirect impacts and enhance overall
environmental management the draft ETA has proposed a number of essential
management principles and due diligent practices (see draft EIA, Annex 10) that have to
be unambiguously complied with during the SFPP implementation. They include, but not
limited to:
* As the SFPP activities transcend many legal, administrative and territorial
responsibilities and boundaries, it is essential that efficient mechanisms are developed
to ensure that all relevant Federal and regional bodies and authorities are engaged in a
coordinated and timely fashion in drafting and reviewing new regulations, planning,
approving and supervising project's activities as well as resolving any unanticipated
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report.



6
bottlenecks; the composition of the proposed IASC should reflect institutional
realities and processes in the country
* Compliance with all applicable Russian environmental, safety, social, labor and other
requirements, standards, permitting and licensing procedures (if not available, with
international, acceptable to IBRD) when preparing specifications for and procuring
various types of computer, harvesting and other equipment, agrochemicals, planting
material, fire-fighting foams, solvents, etc., as well as any other site selection, design,
operation, monitoring, inspection, handling, storage standards and criteria
* As some site-specific project activities may require preparation of an EIA and other
analysis as well as conducting a mandatory State Ecological Expertise (SEE) and
other types of state expertise, the SFPP should budget an appropriate contingency
fund for these purposes and implementation of any measures that may be required as
a result of the SEE; the disbursement of Bank's funds for such activities should be
explicitly conditioned on a Positive Conclusion of the regional SEE
* Selection of pilot areas and subsequently of participating forest enterprises should be
deterrnined on the basis of a transparent selection and eligibility criteria, including
company's environmental track record and capabilities, and their commitment to plan
and implement environmental, social and other mitigation measures required under
the Russian legislation
- It should be made explicitly clear that certain types of projects and activities will not
be financed with IBRD funds in order not to violate national legislation and
international obligations as well as to ensure SFPP's enviromnental and social
sustainability
* Should any activities that warrant special attention and/or action under the Bank
safeguard policies, like procurement of pesticides, preparation of a resettlement or
indigenous people plans, or activities on international waterways that require
notification, etc., be proposed for financing under the SFPP, preparation by the
borrower of required activities acceptable to the Bank should become a condition of
disbursement of requested funds
* Scope of project monitoring and supervision should be two tiered: (a) overall SFPP
performance focused on agreed deliverables, and (b) activity- and site-specific
environmental monitoring and inspection that utilizes and integrates existing
programs and systems operated by various ministries and agencies; these should help
to timely identify unanticipated impacts and to adjust and mitigate accordingly
* Should a decision be made to finance under the SFPP any emergency fire-fighting
and pest-control activities, the borrower should be advised and assisted in preparing
environmental procedures and guidelines for emergency operations consistent with
the provisions of OP 4.01 and Russian legislation
*  The SFPP should also support elaboration of EIA and environmental audit procedures
and guidelines for projects and operations in various forestry sub-sectors; these will
help to develop proposed insurance policies and products as well as provide basis to
decide in the future on approaches to address environmental liabilities
* In order to facilitate smooth information flow and dissemination, participatory and
transparent project implementation as well as GIS-, inventory- and monitoring-related
activities, it is recommended that the Intemet and World Wide Web capabilities are
developed and supported under the SFPP
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



7
* The SFPP requires clarification of the relevance and scope of the proposed "carbon
sequestering" and "carrying capacity" studies; if they deem necessary, it is important
to utilize to full extent existing Russian institutional, including human and technical,
capabilities and ensure their coordination with other similar activities supported by
other donors
* Finally, as the Bank continues conversion and elaboration of environmental, social
and other policies as well as project implementation moves away from Moscow, it is
recommended that the Bank support translation (into Russian) and training in
applications of its relevant policies and procedures during the SFPP Federal and
regional launch-up workshops.
To further ensure compliance with applicable Bank and Russian policies and legislation
as well as environmental due diligent implementation of the SFPP activities, certain
commitments will have to be translated into bidding, contractual and specification
documents as well as the SFPP loan agreement. They will, together with the other SFPP
deliverables and performance indicators, form a basis for project's regular monitoring
and supervision by duly national authorities and the Bank.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report






8
INTRODUCTION
The SFPP was screened into Environmental Assessment (EA) Category B in accordance
with the IBRD OD 4.01: Environmental Assessment (1991) (see SFPP draft Project
Information Document, dated April 14, 1998 and SFPP Environmental Data Sheet, dated
June 6, 1997).
The decision on EA Category B classification and subsequently on the type and scope of
environmental analysis, namely limited EIA, was well justified. This was determined by
the nature and magnitude of potential adverse environmental impacts (on human
populations and environmentally important areas) associated with and limited to the
scope of the activities to be financed under the proposed SFPP.
The SFPP EA Category B was subsequently reconfirmed in accordance with the IBRD
OP/BP/GP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, which was issued in January 1999 and
effectively replaced OD 4.01.
The draft EIA was also intended to meet the diverse Russian Federation legislation and
requirements, particularly on the State Ecological Expertise (SEE) and EIA elaborated on
below and referred to in Annex 5.
The scope of the EIA, procedures for the SEE and SFPP-related public consultation
process were discussed and agreed upon (in the course of SFPP preparation) with the
Federal Forestry Service (FFS) and State Committee on Environmental Protection
(SCEP). The SCEP is a duly authorized government body for managing EA process in
Russia.
It has been also confimed by the senior SCEP officials that any ELA, that may be
required under the Russian law, for the regional SFPP sub-components or activities will
be subject, together with the activity design, to mandatory SEE at the regional level.
It was specifically agreed that the project description prepared by the FFS and Regional
Administrations and approved in principle by the Supervisory Committee for Project
Preparation will be promptly submitted to the SCEP for the SEE at the Federal level.
The EIA was conducted by reviewing and analyzing SFPP documentation, provided by
the IBRD (see Annex 2), and relevant comments and recommendations of public
consultation meetings. Other Russian and international publications, available personally
to the Consultant, (see Annex 3) were used as an additional source of information for
analysis in the course of EIA preparation.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



9
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
IBRD Policies and Procedures
IBRD program- and project-related activities as well as those of the borrowers, in this
case the Russian Federation, are governed by a set of explicitly stated Forestry Policy as
well as other policies embedded in Operational Directives (ODs), Operational Policies
(OPS), Bank Procedures (BPs) and other instructive documents (see Annexes 4). Good
Practices (GPs) as well as technical sector- or media-specific sourcebooks, manuals and
handbooks (see Annex 3), provide guidance, both to the Bank staff and the borrowers, on
how to comply with and implement mandatory requirements set forth in the above ODs,
OPs, BPs, etc.
Environmental Assessment (EA) is used in the IBRD (the World Bank or the Bank) to
examine environmental, social and other related risks and benefits associated with the
Bank lending operations. The purpose of EA is to improve decision-making and to ensure
that project options under consideration are sound and sustainable.
EA is broad in scope and takes into account the natural environment as well as human
health and socio-cultural and economic aspects, focusing in on those issues and potential
impacts and consequences that are determined as critical for project's environmental
soundness and socio-economic sustainability.
EA goes hand in hand with the process of identifying a potential project, designing,
implementing and monitoring it. Close integration of EA with other types of project
analysis helps to ensure that environmental considerations are given appropriate weight
in project selection, siting and design.
Key considerations when in EA include: (a) linkages with social and economic
assessments, (b) analysis of alternatives, (c) public participation and consultation with
affected people and NGOs, and (d) disclosure of information.
The Bank's EA policies and procedures are described in OP/BP/GP 4.01: Environmental
Assessment. This policy is considered to be the umbrella policy for the Bank's
"safeguard policies" which among other include: Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Water
Resources Management (OP 4.07), Pest Management (OP 4.09), Indigenous Peoples (OD
4.20), Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30), Forestry (OP 4.36), Projects on International
Waterways (OP 7.50), etc., (see Annex 4).
Like economic, financial, institutional and engineering analysis, EA is part of project
preparation and therefore is borrower's responsibility. The Bank's policy stresses that EA
be thought of as a process rather than specific product.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



10
IBRD Forest Policy
Starting with 1978 and through 1991 Forest Sector Policy Paper (FSPP), the Bank has
paid increasing attention to accelerated rate of destruction of the remaining primary,
particular tropical, forests in various parts of the world.
The 1991 FSPP identified two key global challenges: to slow the alarmingly rapid rates
of deforestation, and to ensure adequate planting of new trees. The Bank committed to
move vigorously to promote the conservation of natural forests and the sustainable
development of managed forestry resources.
Its objectives included support for international efforts and legal instnuments to promote
forest conservation, assistance to governments in policy reform and institutional
strengthening, creation of additional forest resources and support for initiatives that
preserve intact forest areas. Unfortunately, the Bank's policy elaboration was limited to
its experience gained primarily in tropical moist forests.
The 1991 FSPP provided basis for adopting Bank operational policies on the forestry
sector (OP/GP 4.36:Foerstry), which defined Bank's aims when involved in the sector,
namely, in addition to those referred above, to reduce poverty, encourage economic
development and enhance environmental contribution of forested areas.
A review/revision of the 1991 FSPP is underway in the Bank, and Russian organizations
would be invited to participate through coordinated effort to be ensured by the IUCN
office in Moscow.
IBRD Cooperation with the Russian Federation in Environment and Forest Sectors
The proposed SFPP continues environmental cooperation between the Bank and Russian
and subsequently builds on a number of Bank-financed and supported projects and
activities in the country, namely: the Environmental Management Project (EMP) and the
Forestry Policy Review. Bank staff has also assisted Russia in preparing a number of
projects financed by the Global Enviromnental Facility (GEF): Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Project, Ozone Depleting Substance Consumption Phase-out Project and
Biodiverisy Conservation Project.
The Russian Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which has been quite recently reviewed
and agreed with the Bank, outlines five main strategic actions for the environment sector
in the country:
I. identifying areas of environmental concern at a regional and local levels and
developing actions to address them
2. establishing an institutional and regulatory structure to guide the use of natural
resources, such as sustainable forestry management, in a market economy
3. promoting the use of environmentally sound technologies in the private sector
4. establishing a clear legal framework governing liability for past and present
environmental damages
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



I1
5. addressing issues of global and/or international environmental concern in cooperation
with other countries.
The proposed SFPP addresses Nos 1-3 and 5 from the above.
Russian Policy and Legal Framework
The Russian Constitution, adopted in 1993, defines the country as a multiparty
democratic republic with a President as the Head of State. The Constitution provides for
division the state power into legislative, executive and judicial branches. It is proclaimed
that universally recognized principles and norms of international law and international
conventions concluded by the Russian Federation are part of its legal corpus. If any
provision of an international convention ratified by Russia contradicts national laws or
requirements, the rules of the international convention apply.
The legislative branch consists of two-chamber parliament (The Federal Assembly): the
Council of Federation and the State Duma, The executive branch includes the Council of
Ministers - Government of the Russian Federation, ministries, committees and other
agencies. The judicial branch comprises the Supreme Court, Supreme Arbitration Court
and the Constitutional Court.
Russia consists of Subjects of Federation, including constituent republics, krays, oblasts,
cities of federal importance, etc., 89 in total. A "kray" is a major administrative unit
based on economic zoning plans. An "oblast" is defined based on natural or geographic
conditions, historic tradition, and ethnic or environmental features. An oblast defined in
terns of nationality and included into a kray or directly into a Republic is referred to as
Autonomous Oblast.
The Constitution has defined responsibilities between the Federation and its Subjects.
Natural resources management is under joint jurisdiction and it includes: (a) issues
related to possession, use and disposal of land, underground resources, waters and other
natural resources, (b) environmental protection, ecological safety, specially protected
natural areas, protection of historical and cultural monuments, (c) coordination of health-
related issues, (d) emergency planning and response to catastrophes, natural disasters, (e)
legislation on labor, land, water, forest and underground resources and enviromnental
protection. The Subjects of Federation may also develop new legislative and regulatory
documents in cases when specific natural conditions or unique character of some
territories need to be taken into consideration.
The Federation retains jurisdiction over: (a) determination of principles of the federal
policy and programs in the field of ecological development of Russia, (b) territorial seas,
the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf, (c) meteorological service,
standards, geodesy and cartography. The specific division of powers and the status of
federal natural resources are detennined by bilateral agreements between the federal
authority and authorities of the Subjects.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



12
The following legal and normative regulatory instruments, adopted or issued by various
branches and bodies of the state power, currently exist and are applied, often arbitrarily,
in Russia:
* The Constitution
* Federal Constitutional Laws
*  Codes and Fundamentals of Legislation
*  Federal Laws
*  Presidential Decrees
*  Governmental Resolutions
*  State Standards - GOST, approved by the State Committee on Standards and
Metrology)
*  Construction Norms and Standards, Collection of Rules, Directive Document for
Construction, Branch Construction Norms, Regional Construction Norms - SNiP,
SP, RDS, VSN, RSN, approved by the State Committee on Construction,
Architectural and Housing Policy (SCCAHP) and a federal executive authority
*  All-Union Normative Documents - OND, approved by Federal Ministries
*  Sanitary Rules, Norms, Hygienic Normatives, Sanitary Rules and Norms - SP, SN,
GN, SanPin, approved by the Sanitary-Epidemiological Service (SES) of the Ministry
of Health (MOH)
*  Inter-Branch Labor Protection Rules - POT M, approved by the Ministry of Labor
*  Brach Standards - OST, approved by a Federal executive body
*  Instructions and Branch Norms, Ruling Documents, Safety Rules, Rules of Safe
Operation, Branch Rules of Safety, Typical Branch Instructions for Labor protection,
etc. - IVN, RD, PB, PUBE, POT 0, TOI, etc., approved by a Federal executive body
Federal legislation and regulatory acts serve as guidance to the Subjects of the Federation
to exercise their own legal authority, adopt laws, executive guidelines and procedures,
etc.
Monitoring of environmental pollution and the quality of natural resources as well as of
compliance (and enforcement) with environmental and other related legislation is ensured
through the system of the state ecological control (inspection) and sectoral/media
monitoring, entrusted to various state executive bodies, which operates on the national,
regional, local and air/water basin levels.
Violation of environmental, health, safety and other related legislation, requirements and
standards causes administrative, civil and criminal punishment. Fines for non-compliance
and environmental pollution are determined and imposed by the SCEP, SES,
Roskomzem, FFS, Gosstroi, etc. Imposition of fines does not relieve the guilty party from
the obligation to compensate for the damages caused. Attorney-generals' environmental
offices and courts of various levels are involved in investigating and prosecuting for
environmental violations.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



13
Russian Forest Sector
The 1997 Forestry Code (and the 1993 Fundamentals of Forestry Legislation), together
with 1991 Environmental Protection Law, establishes the current legal framework for
forest management. Its principal objective has been identified as "ensuring sound, non-
depleting use of forests as well as their conservation, protection and reproduction based
on the principles of sustainability and preservation of biological diversity of forest
ecosystems, increasing their ecological and resource potential and satisfying society's
needs for forest resources on the basis of scientifically justified multi-purpose forest use".
The Constitutional provision for joint authority over natural resources has been
interpreted in different ways in relation to the State Forest Fund (i.e. publicly owned
forest and non-forest lands, that constitute about 60% of Russian territory) and caused
tensions between Federal and Regional authorities.
The 1997 Forestry Code has introduced a new legal framework for forest resource
allocation and use, including 49-year forest leases and concessions, and mechanism of
forest fees and stumpage rates to cover the costs of forest management as well as clarified
responsibilities between the federal and regional governments in the sector. Financial
responsibility for reforestation has been transferred to regional authorities.
Implementation of forestry legislation in carried out through governmental resolutions,
which define procedural and substantive issues and directions for development of forest
management. A number of national forestry management and scientific-research
programs, like "Russian Forest Program", are being implemented in Russia.
The Russian Federal Forest Service (which celebrated its 200 anniversary in 1998)
administers, including through its vertically organized regional and local bodies, about
90% of total national forest land. The remaining publicly owned forestland is managed by
other government bodies (like the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the SCEP and other
bodies, like Ministries of Defense and Internal Affairs}. The FFS maintains a system of
research & design and training institutes, forest planning and inventory enterprises,
national parks, air forest protection association, nurseries, etc.
The FFS system is responsible for inter-regional and inter-sectoral coordination and
regulation of forest policy development, utilization and protection, development and
implementation of new methods and programs of forest management, training and
international cooperation.
Forest harvesting, processing, pulp and paper production, etc. is the responsibility of
forest enterprises, 95% of which are private or semi-private entities. Many enterprises
face severe financial difficulties, complicated by limited number of well-trained
manpower.
Payments for the use of forests are regulated primarily through recently adopted
legislation, which provide for: (a) charges for reforestation and protection of forests, (b)
forest duties, and (c) rent payments (for forest lots leasing and felling permit). Forest
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



14
protection charges are calculated as a percentage of the selling price of the timber felled,
distributed or processed by the use. If timber is sold for foreign currency, the
reforestation and protection charges must be paid in foreign currency.
Forest duties are paid for: (a) sales of standing timber and (b) utilization of other forest
resources like second grade timber, haying, pasturage, purveyance of tree saps, wild
fruits, berries, mushrooms, herbs, bee-keeping. Duty rates are established by duly
authorities both on the Federal and regional levels and calculated on per product unit or
per hectare of exploited forest area. They can be paid in the form of cash payments,
payments in kind in purveyed or other products, or works or services. The form of
payment is set forth by regional authorities in the forest use permits.
Forest rent rate depends on the quantity, quality and location of forest lots. Decisions on
leasing allocations and subsequently terms for rent calculations are established by
regional and local authorities in agreement with the FSS and its regional bodies.
The administration of Khabarovsk kray adopted a number of legal and normative
documents regulating land, underground resources, forest use and hunting in the region.
Forestry regulation establishes qualifying certification procedure to identify the degree of
potential forest user's preparedness "to ensure, both technically and economically, during
land use activities the observance of forest and environmental protection legislation, the
existing forestry and forestry engineering standards". Other forestry regulations, adopted
in Khabarovsk kray, specify the terms, conditions and negotiating requirements for forest
plot leasing, issuance of forest permits, rights and obligations both of lessors and lessees
as well as define forest tax and lease rates.
In Leningrad oblast, the regional SCEP body has developed specific instructions relating
to the approval procedures for environmental feasibility materials for various business
activities, design and engineering work, development or introduction of new equipment,
technologies, materials or substances.
Russian Environmental Assessment Process
The EA and other associated types of analysis and state expertise reviews are rather
complex mixture of processes, analytical tools and documents required under Russian
legislation to ensure programs' and projects' environmental sustainability as well as
facilitate decision-making, permitting and licensing of economic activity and use of
natural resources.
There are two essential mechanisms and processes of incorporation of environmental and
social concerns into a program or a project development in Russia, that are covered by
the Bank term of EA, namely Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA or OVOS) and
the State Ecological Expertise (SEE or Gosecoexpertiza). Both EIA and SEE are
governed by various laws, normative and sub-normative acts (see Annex 5A) which
should be consistently applied at various project or program planning and design (pre-
design and design, or pre-investment and investment) stages.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



15
Project proponent is responsible for conducting an EIA and covering all associated costs.
Project proponent is also responsible for covering all costs associated with the SEE,
which should be conducted in the course of up to 6 months after all necessary project and
environment-related documents have been filed.
Both EIA and SEE legislation and regulations provide lists (as well as refer to
international agreements, like the "Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a
Transboundary Context", dated February 25, 1991) of economic activity subject to
various types of environmental analysis.
The SEE is a mandatory process, introduced by the law "On Environmental Protection"
and further elaborated in the law "On Ecological Expertise", aimed at ensuring
compliance of the proposed activity with existing environmental, health and safety
legislation and requirements in order to prevent potential adverse impacts and
consequences. Virtually all projects with foreign investment are subject to the SEE.
The SEE is a function of expert commissions assembled by the State Committee of
Environmental Protection (SCEP), or other inter-agency expert commissions formed
jointly by the SCEP and MOH, FFS as well as other bodies concerned. The SEE
Department of the SCEP and its regional branches are responsible for managing of
interpretation and implementation of the SEE process. This department determines the
scope of documents and level of detail required for analysis of environmental issues.
Other types of mandatory state review include: state expertise by the SCCAHP, sanitary-
epidemiological by the SES of the MOH, examination by the Ministry of Economy
(MOE), examination by the Expert Council of the Government, etc. The law "On
Ecological Expertise" also provides for a public ecological expertise. Unfortunately, there
is no procedural or substantive clarity in the essence of the relationships between the
above reviews
Russian Organizational Framework
The executive power in the country is exercised by the Government, under which there
are the following central federal executive bodies: (a) Minstries, (b) State Committees,
(c) Committes, (d) Federal Commissions, (e) Federal Services, (f) Russian Agencies, (g)
Federal Suprevisions, (h) other Federal Bodies of Executive Power (see Annex 6). The
government also establishes standing and temporary inter-ministerial and inter-agency
commissions to address problems in certain sectors or resolve cross-sectoral defficiencie.
With almost every Cabinet reshuffle the government structure undergoes significant
changes, with environment-related agicies losing their real powers and vested and
sectoral interests pravailing in planning and decision making. These ongoing reshuffles
add significantly to poor implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation
and further reduces credibility of environmental legal framework, which is this
atmosphere is subject to arbitrary interpretations.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



16
Regional bracnhes of the above bodies exercise their mandates under direction of central
authorities as well as under control of regional authorities in relation to responsibilities
delegates to them by the Constitution in accordance with an overall federal and Subjects
of Federation's legal frameworks as well as with normantive and other instructional acts
of federal executive bodies and regional authorities.
The FFS operates a nationwide territorial netwoerk of 81 regional forest commitees,
which include 1740 forest districts, forest inventory and planning enterprises, 19 air bases
and 5 air wings, 11 forest research and design institutions, 23 forestry technical school,
34 zonal testing stations and other entities. It has under its authority 26 out of 28 Russian
national parks, which are directly managed by FFS regional bodies, and form a part of the
national protected areas system.
Unfortunately, this system, including national parks, faces serious threats due to financial
constraints as well as increased access to public lands under privatization and
deregulation. Lack of proper enforcement and monitoring has lead to intensified
clearcutting, infringement of mining and agricultural activities into forest areas.
BASELINE CONDITIONS IN PROIECT AREA AND IDENTIFIED PROBLEMS
The three Subjects of the Russian Federation, namely Lehingrad oblast, Krasnoyarsk and
Khabarovsk krays, account for about 4% of its population and cover almost 20% of the
country's territory. These regions have been selected out of 16 Russian administrative-
territorial units that expressed their interest in participating in the project as well as
confirmed their commitment to its objectives (ongoing activities in the forestry sector
supported by other intemational institutions and donors have been taken into
consideration in selecting the regions as well as defining the scope of the project). They
span across 7 times zones and represent a diversity of natural and socioeconomic
conditions in the Russian vast boreal and temperate forests.
Leningrad oblast
The Leningrad oblast (86,000 square km.; over 1,6 million people and about 5 million
people in St. Petersburg, about 70% of population is urban) is located on the northwestern
fringes of European Russia and borders Finland, Estonia, the Baltic Sea and other
Russian regions, like Pskov, Novgorod and Vologda. It has mostly flat topography, about
50% of the territory covered by forests (mature and over nature stock represent 27% of
the total), many rivers and lakes (with Neva, Svir, Ladoga and Onega are respectively
among the largest), humid temperate climate and natural ecosystems significantly altered
and degraded by centuries of urban development, agriculture, mining and pollution.
The intensity of forest utilization in some areas frequently exceeds the economically
sustainable levels as well as harvesting is shifting to more accessible protected forests
that can be exploited less expensively. Such activities like proper thinning of young
stands or high quality reforestation exist in many cases only on paper.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



17
Krasnoyarsk kray
Krasnoyarsk kray, nicknamed the "spine" of Russia, is the second largest territorial
administrative unit (2,34 million square km., 3.1 million people, with two autonomous
areas - Taymyr and Evenkia, with about 75% of population is urban) located in Eastern
Siberia, with almost all varieties of ecosystems typical of Russia. Its has diverse
topography, from river-basin plains and plateaus to mountain ridges with glaciers, alpine
meadows and inter-mountain basins with fertile soils.
The climate is classified as extra-continental, with short and dray spring season,
conducive to frequent forest fires. The kray is heavily forested, with vast areas of natural
ecosystems in the north still remaining intact. Significant areas of forests along major
transportation routes and in the area of influence of industrial centers have been over-
harvested (at the same time logging id very inefficient with average 40% losses) as well
as damaged by industrial pollution, devastating fires and pest outbreaks.
About 27 million hectares (33%) out of total 80,7 million hectares of high quality and
mature/over mature forests (65% of the total) can be harvested, with remaining 67% used
to support primarily ecological functions (4.2% of total krays areas is under protected
mandateO and non-timber activities. The proper utilization of regional forests (currently
only 20-25% of allowable cut is taken) is complicated by poor accessibility of mature
and over mature stock, low growth rate, increasing territories damaged by weather
conditions.
Khabarovksy kray
Khabarovsk kray (789 thousand square km., 1,5 million of people, 80%  urban
population) is located in the Russian Far East where it borders China. The climate is a
harsh monsoon-like, with cold and dry winters and warm and damp summers. The terrain
is both mountainous and flat, and is covered by rich mixture of boreal and sub-tropical
forests with diversity of valuable medical plants and rich wildlife. While vast areas of
natural ecosystems still remain intact, deforestation is significant due to clear-cutting in
the proximity of sea-ports and transportation infrastructure.
Only 22.3 million hectares (38%) out of total 58 million hectares of the forest fund, can
be harvested, with remaining areas used primarily to support ecological functions (5.3%
of total kray area is under protected mandate) and non-timber activities. The proper
utilization of regional forests (currently only about 30% of allowable cut is taken), which
have a large portion of mature and over mature ones (45% of the total), is complicated
by: (a) mosaic pattern of location, (b) high share of mountainous forests (50% of forests
have slopes steeper than 15"), (c) presence of permafrost, and (d) inadequate
transportation infrastructure.
Forests in the region are periodically damaged by fires (are major damage factor due to
natural and human causes), pest diseases and industrial pollution. Biological diversity is
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



18
under threat, in part due to increasing harvesting and trade in medical plants and
uncontrolled gathering of other non-wood products.
Identified problems
Forestry has been and is envisioned to continue to be a significant factor of economic
development in all three regions. However during the last decade, the importance of the
forestry sector in regional economies declined sharply due to: (a) overall collapse of the
former command-and-control economy and underdeveloped market-based instruments
and mechanisms, (b) outdated technologies, equipment and management practices used,
(c) significant reduction of public investments in and lack of adequate private financial
resources to support revival of the forestry sector, etc.
The volume of operations and outputs in almost all forestry sub-sectors declined from
few to dozen times with simultaneous significant increase in production and
transportation costs. Subsequently the percentage of the sector in regional GDPs
decreased. Export earnings fell down (with taxes and tariffs serving mainly as
disincentives), employment was cut, the volume of decaying tree biomass increased,
reforestation efforts did not commensurate with unsustainable logging practices as well
as scale of damage due to forest fires, pest infestation and pollution. There were no major
investments in the sector since late 1980.
The above has been further complicated, as identified in a number of Russian sources
(see Annex 3), by:
a Lack or inadequacy of forestry legislation as well as inconsistencies between
economic, investment, tax, financial, environmental and other laws and
implementation procedures and mechanisms
*  Commitment to environmental protection and rational use of natural resources that
remains low and varies considerably among different sectors of economy, regional
and local authorities, the private sector and population, and subsequently leads to
poor incorporation of environmental dimensions into national, regional and sector
programs and project planning and design
*  Fragmentation and overlap of functions and responsibilities among govemment
agencies (and decreasing of the status of environmental ones), federal and regional
authorities, and poor coordination between the above as well as inadequate
enforcement and accountability for environmental commitments which leads to
increasing non-compliance and limited prosecution for environmental violations
* Deteriorating administrative, technical and human capabilities (particularly
inadequate skill-mix and lack of certain professional categories, lack of transparent
career-paths and incentives structure, performance evaluation criteria, etc.) as well as
simple, credible and consistent standards and guidelines, particularly for EIA,
environmental audit, regional and sectoral EA, etc., related to forestry sector
operations that may help to encourage foreign investments.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



19
Overall inefficiencies in the forestry sector have amplified and contributed to regional
soil erosion, degradation of watersheds, increase in frequency and damages from floods
and landslides as well as other threats to the cultural survival of indigenous people who
traditionally live in or near the forests. The importance of Russian forests (and
particularly of non-wood forest products in providing incomes and sustenance to forest
dwellers, rural and urban poor during painful economic transition period) in protecting
biological diversity as well as their role in the carbon cycle and in global climate change
has not been adequately and fully appreciated. Particular attention should be paid also to
the challenges arising from the divergence between the private and social interests in
relation to utilization of forest resources.
Non-wood products continue to be an important supplement to population nutrition and
income: as per FFS data of 1994 and in situation where reliable accounting is lacking,
non-wood producers (excluding citizens and private consumption) collected about 2094
tons of berries, 450 tons of nuts, 170 tons of mushroom, 524 tons of medical plant: during
the same period, the SCEP issued export licenses for: 569 tons of mushrooms, 2960 tons
of berries, 300 tons of nuts, 193 tons of medical plants, etc.
Ongoing transformations in the forest sector have particularly adverse impacts on socially
and economically vulnerable communities in the remote areas which depend entirely on
forest sector and enterprises for their livelihoods. Significant populations are at risk due
to unemployment and declining sectoral output. Forest enterprises, that have been
traditionally responsible for supporting health, heating, housing and educational needs of
their labor force and households have started to divest the above facilities to regional and
local authorities, which also have limited resources to support their sustainable operation.
Strategic planning is needed to assess the short- and long-term adjustrnent of the sector.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



20
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
The proposed SFPP aims at achieving a number of key objectives, namely to:
*  Support ongoing policy and legal reforms as well as promote of enviromnentally
sustainable practices in the Russian forestry sector
.  Facilitate improved management and business operations of selected forest
enterprises
*  Demonstrate economic, environmental and social advantages of transparent and
credible forest management as well as internationally recognized practices of forest
production
*  Provide institutional climate attractive to foreign and local investors.
Project Structure
The proposed SFPP will have two main Components (A and B), with a number of
activities (sub-components) under each of them, which will be implemented at the federal
and regional level. Three regions, namely Leningrad oblast (in European Russia),
Krasnoyarsk Kray (Eastern Siberia) and Khabarovsk Kray (in the Russian Far East), have
been selected for the purposes of this pilot operation.
ComDonent A: Strenl!thenins! Forest Manaaement will consist of:
Al - Improved Policy and Regulatory Mechanisms for Forest Utilization
1. Development of policies and regulations, including (a) drafting of regional forest
codes and regulation to facilitate implementation of the Federal Forest Code as well
as raise public awareness and transparency for investors; (b) promotion sustainable
forest management based on market principles and mechanisms; (c) improvement of
forest management financing, accounting and planning systems and procedures
2. Introduction of both mandatory and voluntary standards and schemes for certification
of sustainable forest management and forest products
3. Development of prototype forest insurance system and products
Consulting services, training and procurement of equipment and certain software will be
required to implement activities envisioned under AI, 1- 3.
AII - Forest Information Management Systems and Improved Land-Use Planning
1. At the Federal Level this will focus on developing of Federal Forest Management
Information System as well as standards for unification of: (a) inventory and
accounting software, (b) databases, and (c) information flows between various levels
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



21
of forest management system; these will require consulting services, training and
procurement of equipment and software
2. In Leningrad oblast this will include: (a) unification of software used at the oblast and
local levels of forest management, (b) development of computerized procedures for
forest harvest valuation as well as cost-accounting, and (c) upgrading of computer
and inventory measurement equipment; these will require consulting services,
training and procurement of equipment and software
3. In Krasnovarsk krav this will include: (a) development of procedures for assessment
and valuation of carbon sequestration and biodiversity functions of forest ecosystems,
(b) improvement of forest management plans' preparation and timber valuation for
new forest leases, and (c) integration of local inventory date into regional
GIS/database, etc.; these will require consulting services, training and procurement of
equipment and software.
4. In Khabarovsk kray this will include: (a) integration of existing inventory data into
regional GIS/database and (b) development of computerized procedures for forest
harvest valuation and cost accounting of forest management activities; these will
require consulting services, training and procurement of equipment.
AIII - Forest Fire and Pest Management Systems
1. In Leningrad oblast activities will focus on: (a) development of a permanent forest
pest monitoring and control network, (b) development of curricula and public
awareness campaigns related to fire and pest prevention, and (c) expansion of
existing "early detection" forest fire systems; these will require consulting services,
training, procurement of equipment and civil works
2. In Krasnoyarsk krav activities will focus on: (a) developing a strategy and procedures
for forest fire and pest management, (b) testing new technologies related to the above,
and (c) testing new sylvicultural procedures on large bum-over and pest-damaged
forest areas; these will require consulting services, training, procurement of
equipment, including for the Federal laboratory biological pest control agents
3. In Khabarovsk krav activities will focus on: (a) establishment of potent and cost-
effective fire-detection and prevention system; (b) elaboration of new forest fire and
pest prevention techniques, and (c) developing of curricula and public awareness
campaigns; these will require consulting  services, training, procurement of
equipment.
AIV - Improved Regional Forest Regeneration Systems
1. In Leningrad oblast the activities will include: (a) modernization of existing forest
nurseries to support reforestation efforts and (b) development of cost-recovery
mechanisms to ensure sustainable operations; these will require consulting services,
training, procurement of equipment, plant material and seeds
2. In Krasnovarsk krav the activities will focus on: (a) introduction of cost-effective
techniques for replanting and assisted forest regeneration in cut-over, burnt and pest-
damaged areas as well as for natural seed collection and processing, and (b)
establishment of a modem nursery (in a selected pilot site), which will operate on
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



22
cost-recovery basis; these will require consulting services, training, procurement of
equipment, planting and seed material
3. In Khabarovsk kravs this will focus primarily on implementation of a massive
reforestation program, which will require consulting services, training, procurement
of heavy and other equipment as well as planting and seed material.
Component B: Forest Enterprise Development will corlsist:
In Leningrad oblast of activities focused at (a) establishment of a Regional Training
Center (RTC) for the forest sector and (b) establishment of a sawmill where the training
will be conducted. The proposed RTC, after its establishment, will spearhead
implementation of technical audits of existing enterprises and preparation of their
business strategies and plans, academic and professional training, etc. The location of the
proposed sawmill will be decided based on to be agreed criteria. The above will require
consulting services, training and procurement of various equipment.
In Krasnoyarsk kray of support focused at
* Activities related to wood-based forest products, namely: (a) creation of a Regional
Center for Business Development (RCBD) and (b) strengthening forest sector training
at the Krasnoyark State technological Academy; these will require consulting
services, training and procurement of certain types of equipment, including for
harvesting, wood processing, office, etc.
* Supporting and enhancing technical, market-based and oriented management
capabilities of existing selected enterprises engaged in non-wood forest production;
these will require consulting services, small civil works, procurement of processing
and other equipment
In Khabarovsk krav of support focused at
* Activities related to wood-based products, namely establishment of a Forest
Technology Center (FTC); it is proposed that the FTC will be engaged in (a) training
and introduction of new methods and technologies and (b) provision of certain
technologies and necessary equipment; these will require consulting services, training
and procurement of equipment, particularly for harvesting, processing, transportation,
office, etc.
. Supporting and enhancing technical, market-based and oriented management
capabilities of existing selected enterprises engaged in non-wood forest production;
these will require consulting services, procurement of goods and equipment for
processing, packaging, labeling, etc.
Proposed Project Management and Implementation
It is understood that there is continuing dialogue between the Bank and Russian
authorities in relation to the final modalities of SFPP management anrangements
necessary to facilitate smooth implementation by ensuring leadership, transparent inter-
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



23
agency and vertical (federal-regional-local) coordination, credible agreement on
responsibilities and accountability, including performance monitoring and supervision.
It is currently proposed that the following arrangements be put in place:
On the Federal Level
*  An Inter-Azency Supervisory Committee (IASC , comprised of senior officials from
MOF, MOE, FFS, SCEP and other organizations and chaired by the deputy minister,
MOE, to provide policy guidance and ensure coordination; it is proposed that NGOs'
representative be invited to join the IASC
* The FFS (and its regional bodies) will be responsible for implementing Component A
with the support either of recruited individual management, financial and
procurement experts, or of the Center for Project Preparation and Implementation
(CPPI, established under the EMP); technical responsibility for the project will rest
with the SFPP Director located in the FFS [it is a clear from the Bank's advice that
the "old practice" of creating Project Implementation Units (PIU) should be
discontinued in order to ensure creation of a sustainable management
capabilities in a line agency - this approach should be encouraged]
- In addition, because of the overarching importance and cross-sectoral linkages of
policy and legal development activities supported by the proposed SFPP, the IASC
will set up a Forest Policy Task Force (FPTF), comprised of key stakeholders,
including core federal agencies, legislature, industry, the private sector, civil society,
academic community, forest practitioners from pilot and non-pilot regions, to review
and guide policy development and formulate recommendations to decision-makers
[The proposed arrangement seems to be too complex. It's more appropriate for
the IASC to convene such meetings when draft deliverables are ready in
accordance with the SFPP implementation plan. Other option may be to see how
Ad Hoc Forestry Forum capabilities can be utilized in this respect to a greater
extent. In any case, government-s decision-making and approval authority
should not be undermined, and it is recommended that "approval" functions
should not be given to any non-governmental body, as currently provided for the
FPTF in a draft Chapter Component A, para. 4.08]
On the Rezional Level
*  Regional IASCs, similar in composition to the Federal IASC and chaired by a Deputy
Governor, will be established in each participating oblast and kray
* Designated forestry-related departments of Regional Administrations will be
responsible for implementation of Component B, under the Federal MOE's Forestry
Sector Department providing overall policy guidance; modalities for procurement and
financial services as well as selection and eligibility criteria (for selecting enterprises
for training and use of harvesting and other equipment as well as non-timber
associations) will be agreed during appraisal
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



24
ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
In the course of the Russian Forest Policy Review and preparation of the proposed SFPP,
a number on Bank group-supported instruments (and sequence of their potential
availability) that can assist with recovery of the forestry sector have been discussed.
These potential operations, that have been discussed and helped to define the scope of the
proposed SFPP, are listed below for information purposes only:
1. The first, is the proposed SFPP which is intended to help to create the conditions,
attractive for private investors, by improving transparency of regulatory framework,
strengthening forest management and facilitating operations of viable forest
enterprises as well as to demonstrate advantages of best international technologies
2. The second, once the "enabling policy environment" is in place, is the Partial Risk
Guarantee Facility Operation. It will help the Government to guarantee investors
against non-commercial risks
3. The third, is a potential complimentary IFC-financed project that can directly support
private investments
4. The fourth, the proposed SFPP can be followed by a larger operation, possibly using
the "adaptable program loan" approach to support a broad long-term forestry program
in a number of regions, and
5. The fifth, is an operation, which could be developed in the context of the new Global
Carbon Initiative - the Carbon Investment Fund, to support carbon sequestration
activities.
A potential for procurement of harvesting equipment for commercial purposes as well as
establishment of leasing companies has been discussed in the course of the SFPP
preparation. The Bank has advised Russian counterparts that the primary purpose of the
procured equipment should be to use it for training and demonstration purposes. It has
also indicated the proposed SFPP is not the right instrument to support direct investment.
Rather resources provided under the Bank-financed Enterprise Support Project may be
available to assist forest enterprises. The Bank has also made it clear that the proposed
SFPP can not support establishment of leasing enterprises.
The proposed SFPP concept, agreed by the Supervisory Committee, has also initially
included a sub-component (under Component B) to support public social assets,
particularly a divestiture of forest enterprises' social assets. This has intended to provide
opportunities for developing alternative mechanisms and sources of funding of schools,
kindergartens and other social infrastructure. As the regions have indicated that they have
ongoing activities in this respect as well as their unwillingness to borrow for this activity,
this sub-component was dropped from the proposed SFPP. [In view of the above,
Russian counterparts, particularly Regional authorities, may be further advised to
explore options available under the Bank-financed Housing Project.]
In view of catastrophic forest fires in the Russian Far East, Khabarovsk regional
Administration has expressed its interest in obtaining Bank emergency support, under the
proposed SFPP, in forest fire rehabilitation. [It is recommended that the Bank and
Russian counterparts explore an option of addressing this issue by establishing
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



25
under the SFPP a small, US 3-5 million, Forestry Revolving Emergency Fund
(contingency fund) with transparent operating procedures and eligibility criteria.]
The proposed Forest Sector Partial Risk Guarantee Facility (FSPRGF) is under
preparation. The FSPRGF has strong logical link with the SFPP since Russian
commitments to forest sector policy reforms have to be illustrated by the SFPP and are
very likely to make the FSPRGF successful as an instrument to attract necessary foreign
investments in the sector.
A consortium of Russian and US NGOs has expressed their interest to get a small GEF
grant, to be associated with the proposed SFPP, to support protection of Siberian tiger
habitat. [It's recommended not over-load the SFPP with unrelated activities, rather
to advise Russian counterparts that existing GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project
has already envisioned support for this activity, which may in turn be
complemented by other private donors].
PROJECT RISKS AND BENEFITS
It is clear from the available SFPP description, including the cost tables, that there will be
no major adverse environmental, social, safety or other impacts associated with its
implementation that may warrant special attention.
The project will not involve any resettlement, impacts on indigenous people and cultural
and natural heritage as well as it will not have any transboundary effects that may require
notification of neighboring countries or compliance with additional requirements under
existing international environmental agreements ratified or to be ratified by Russia.
Routine environmental, safety due diligence and compliance with applicable Russian
laws, regulations and standards should be a norm of the proposed SFPP implementation.
Coordination with and timely engagement of relevant federal, regional and local
authorities will be crucial in this respect.
Nevertheless, some enviromnental and other related precautionary (like selection and
eligibility criteria), certification, safety, due diligence (EIA/SEE, etc.), monitoring and
reporting mechanisms will be required and should be built-in this operation. The scope of
these management mechanisms will be discussed below.
Major activities, supported by the proposed SFPP fall under the following general
categories:
1. Procurement of consulting services of national and international experts to: (a) draft
regulatory, normative, guiding, certification and insurance documents, (b) assist with
development and implementation of general and on-job training, (c) help with
financial aspects and procurement, (d) establishment of training and business
development centers, (e) establishment of data management and accounting systems
and dissemination of information, etc.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



26
2. Procurement of equipment, nationally and internationally, including: (a) computer
software and hardware, including GIS,  (b) harvesting and wood-processing,
including saw-mills, tractors, bulldozers, and communication, video-monitoring, fire-
fighting, etc. equipment, (c) packaging, labeling, etc. equipment to support non-wood
products activities, (d) seed material for nurseries, (e) chemicals for pest-control, (f)
national services, like maps and satellite imagery, meteorological data, leasing fire-
fighting planes and helicopters, etc.
3. Procurement of civil or "ground" works to: (a) establish and operate nurseries, (b)
support reforestation efforts, (c) facilitate collection, processing and marketing of
non-wood forest products, (d) implement demonstration pilot project with new wood
harvesting and processing technologies in selected training centers and enterprises,
(e) test, on a pilot basis, a "prescribed/controlled burning technique" [one should
note that this activity is prohibited by Russian legislation; in this respect,
transparent and credible agreements should be reached and approved by
Russian duly authorities prior to proceeding with "prescribed/comtrolled
burning" experiments.], (f) logistical support to the FFS, IASC and other agencies,
etc.
Risks
The main risks include:
3  Further worsening  of economic situation  thereby  causing  continuation  of
unsustainable use of forest resources
*  Continuation of political instability which may prevent timely approval of necessary
regulatory instruments as well as weaken federal environmental management
structures and compound forest resources use issues, particularly monitoring and
enforcement capabilities
*  Vertical and horizontal coordination of multiple stakeholders, including variety of
government agencies, the private sector, academia, NGOs, regional authorities, that
may have rather conflicting interests
*  Wide geographic spread that adds to the complexity and need for close management
and supervision
*  Limited participation of local communities in the implementation of certain activities
*  Potential minor environmental and other impacts from sub-project, site-specific
activities may include:
The description of the ways and means the proposed SFPP intends to counter these
risks as well as manage potential minor environmental and social impacts is
outlined below.
Benefits
The benefits from the proposed SFPP would accrue at four levels, namely: global,
national, regional and local. At each of these levels anticipated benefits would include
measurable financial and economic, environmental and social improvements.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



27
* From the global perspective the project would help to ensure sustainable
management of major boreal forests which act as a vital carbon sink and a home to
world's most endangered species and richest biological diversity
* At the national level the project will ensure protection of Russian forests at a time of
profound economic turmoil; it will strengthen and improve the policy, legal and
management capacity of government and private entities thereby helping to develop
viable and sustainable economy; moreover, it will establish a taxation, certification
and insurance frameworks attractive for necessary foreign and local investments; it
will help to create training programs for breeding forest managers for the next
millennium thereby ensuring that the requisite skills are dispersed throughout Russia;
* At the regional level the project will provide models for forest management,
including inventory, fire and pest monitoring and prevention, as well as land use, that
may be replicated in other regions of the country; it will help to reduce losses of
timber and support reforestation efforts
*  At the local level the project will create opportunities for local communities for
greater self-efficiency, including cash and employment generation; it will encourage
greater participation of local and indigenous people in non-wood products and forest
management activities, which will enhance their ability to maintain cultural identity,
retain traditional association with customary practices and sustain economic viability.
PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS
Public consultations (with Russian national, regional, local as well as international
NGOs, academia, experts from research and design institutes, and the private sector)
related to the Forestry sector, including the scope of the proposed SFPP, have started in
1996 and continued since then.
These consultations have been first initiated within joint Bank-Russia preparation of the
Russian Federation Forest Policy Review (RFFPR). Many national and international
NGOs, forest and environmental experts, including from academia and the private sector,
have either contributed directly to the FPR or participated in discussions of the document,
which has been translated in to Russian language and widely disseminated in Russia and
neighboring Newly Independent States.
The RFFPR has identified, in a participatory manner, short-, medium- and long-term
priorities, which require intemational technical and financial assistance, to foster
environmentally and socially sustainable development and transformation of the forest
sector during a period of next ten years.
The Russian Government has agreed to implement the priorities and recommendations
defined in the RFFPR. The IBRD support of the proposed SFPP has been specifically
designed to help to address many institutional development and strengthening as well as
technical issues identified in the RFFPR.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



28
The SFPP-specific project consultations has begun (or better to say continued) in 1997
when the Bank has been formally requested by the Russian Government to help finance
an operation in the forestry sector. Participatory elaboration of the proposed SFPP
continued since then as well as expanded from the predominantly Federal level to
regional one and has involved new NGOs and experts (see Annexes 7 & 8).
Russian laws "On Environmental Protection" and "On Ecological Expertise" provide for
public consultations. Additional requirements and guidance, including on information
dissemination, is scattered throughout Russian legislation. A Public Ecological Expertise
(PEE) can be carried out by properly registered NGOs, which have included
"environmental review activity in their charters, either before or in parallel to the SEE.
The results will become legally binding if and only after appropriate SEE bodies have
approved them.
The specific rights of indigenous peoples in Russia have only been formally recognized
in legislation in recent years. They have also begun organizing themselves into NGOs
and associations to express their concerns in relation to projects and activities that may
affect their lands and traditional livelihoods. Russian legislation provides for referendums
to assist indigenous peoples in decision-making related to granting rights for economic
activity on their lands with traditional land and nature use patterns.
Project related documentation, namely Project Information Document (PID) and
Environmental Data Sheet (EDS), has been made publicly available, in accordance with
IBRD OP.4.01, at the World Bank InfoShop. Both documents are accessible through
Internet at: htts://www.wordibank.org/htmlfpic/PIC.html
Tlhe proposed SFPP has been also discussed at a number of meetings of the Russian Ad
Hoc Forestry Forum of CEO and NGO leaders (comments may be available from
minutes of these meetings). Participation of Mr. Wolfensohn, the IBRD President in two
Forum meetings has provided additional opportunities for two-way learning process in
relation to situation in Russian forest sector as well as status of the SFPP preparation.
Formal agreements have been reached with the FFS, SCEP and other government and
regional authorities that draft project documentation will be submitted to public review
and consultations in three project provinces prior to the SEE. The Bank staff has advised
the borrower on the modalities of these consultations, including media announcements of
the forthcoming consultations, presentation of project materials, reporting requirements,
etc.
Generally supportive of the proposed SFPP and activities to be implemented, public
comments went in some cases beyond the scope of the project. These may have reflected
both the economic and social difficulties of current transition as well as limited
familiarity with the project, the changes that have happened in its design in the course of
two years as well as with IBRD policies and requirements.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



29
One should also note that the scope of the participants have been limited to NGOs,
already heavily engaged in project discussions, as well as representatives of academia,
research and design institutes and regional offices of the federal agencies involved in the
SFPP preparation.
It is not currently clear whether SFPP-specific consultations have occurred in urban and
rural or other project areas and have involved loggers, private entrepreneurs, indigenous
people, grass-root or community organizations, and other potential stakeholders and
beneficiaries.
General comments and recommendations of the above public meetings are
summarized below:
*  It is not clear what new technologies are being proposed to ensure economic,
environmental and social sustainability of the forest sector as well as how project
activities will be implemented; it is necessary to adapt implementation arrangements
to meeting Russian procedural requirements as well as to more precisely determine
responsibilities of Federal and regional counterparts
*  Project activities, including proposed reforestation efforts, should be subiect to the
SEE as well as appropriate mechanisms should be developed to ensure compliance
with and enforcement of forestry and other legislation
*  It looks like the project does not take filly into account ongoing activities in the
Russian academic and research and design institutes, other local programs and
projects as well as existing technical capabilities (e.g. market-based business
planning); local capabilities should be more fully utilized in the project
implementation
* It is not clear what criteria is proposed to define "sustainable forestrv" and to evaluate
project effectiveness - these issues should be addressed
- It is proposed that the project may consider supporting additional activities, like
forestry melioration. ecotourism development, waste reprocessing, local road
construction as well as project support should be extended to entities under various
forms of ownership and some thought should be given how to prepare a follow-up
project
*  Some proposed technologies, particularly "controlled burning", are prohibited by
existing Russian legislation - this should be clarified
*  Public representatives should be included into Supervisory Committees.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
As we have already indicated above, activities envisioned under the proposed SFPP
will not cause any significant adverse environmental, social or other impacts that
warrant elaboration of a comprehensive environmental management Plant (EMP).
Many proDosed proiect activities do not require anv environmental miti2ation or
monitorinf at all. Enviromnental, social and other related considerations, including
public consultation process, have been an integral part and focus of project preparation.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



30
Secondly, in our opinion, the proposed SFPP may be considered itself to be a sort of an
EMP, which details (a) institutional measures to be taken to address identified problems
and concerns in the forest sector as well as (b) actions needed to implement and monitor
them.
Thirdly, due diligent development, selection of locations and proposed technologies for
site-specific activities as well as compliance during project preparation with applicable
Bank and Russian regulations indicate that there is quite distanced potential for triggering
activation of provisions contained in Bank safeguard policies and procedures, besides
those mandated in OP/BP 4.01: Environmental Assessment. It is pretty much clear that
project activities will not cause resettlement, adverse impacts on indigenous people as
well as on neighboring countries that may require preparation and implementation of
comprehensive mitigation measures.
Any Dotential minor environmental and other related direct and indirect impacts
(which will be localized and narrow in scope as well as are well-defined and well-
understood) will have to be assessed, prevented or mitigated as well as monitored on
case-by-case basis. Certain general principles for implementing routine due diligence as
well as other selection. eligibility. siting, etc. criteria are outlined below (and summarized
in Annex 10) should be consistently implemented:
1. Compliance with all Russian standards and certification (permitting and licensing)
procedures (if not available, with international, acceptable to IBRD), when preparing
specifications for and procuring of various types of computer, harvesting and other
equipment; particular attention should be paid to its compatibility, health, safety and
fire protection requirements, energy efficiency, fuel consumption, levels of noise,
vibration, temperature exposure, pollutants' emissions, etc. These and other
environment-related requirements and specifications should be explicitly
incorporated in all bidding and contractual documents; specifications for highly
technical equipment and software (e.g. GIS) should be prepared by reputable experts
[operation and maintenance manuals in Russian language should be required with
each type of equipment; on-job training may be negotiated as part of a deal; spare
parts and other consumables should be appropriately budgeted for at least the life of
the project]
2. Compliance with all Russian standards and certification (permitting, licensing and
exclusion lists) procedures (if not available, with international, acceptable to IBRD),
when preparing specification for and procuring planting material, including seeds,
agrochemicals, fire-fighting foams and solvents, etc.; these and other environment-
related requirements should be explicitly incorporated into bidding and contractual
documents ["exotic" planting material and seeds (what about genetically altered?)
should be well tested and carefilly selected before they are used extensively;
guidelines for management of propagation material (seed: purchase or collection,
storage and handling), should be developed, etc.]
3. Compliance with all Russian (if not available, international, acceptable to IBRD) site
selection, design standards and criteria, operation, monitoring and inspection
procedures as well as any legitimate recommendations developed in the course of
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



31
any required EIA/SEE, particularly for reforestation activities and establishment of
nurseries (see para. 6 below)
4. When equipment, procured under the SFPP, is used for harvesting, saw-milling,
reforestation and other related activities by forest enterprises or other public or
private entities, the above entities, referred to below as "contractors" should be
obliged, as part of their contract, to fulfill at least the following conditions (as well
as any other requirements mandated by the Russian law):
*  The natural landscape should be preserved to the extent possible by conducting
operations in a manner that will prevent unnecessary destruction or scarring of
natural environment; after unavoidable damage, reseeding, replanting or
restoration is required promptly to prevent further damage
*  The contractor's facilities should be planned in advance to decide on what the
area will look like upon the completion of activities; camps and other facilities
should either serve as permanent residences and form future comrnunities, or be
torn down and the area restored to its quasi-original conditions
D The contractor's operations should be so perfortned as to prevent accidental
spillage of contaminants, debris, etc. into streams and underground water
resources, so as not to harm aquatic life or disturb natural habitat as well as
ensure public and workers safety and health; only designated areas should be
accessed and only the specified species and volumes be harvested
*  Contract specifications may vary with the scope of supported activity and
environmental and other issues; nevertheless, besides making environmental
capabilities one of the selection criteria for contractors, appropriate briefing,
educating and training of contractor (and its staff, like loggers, etc.) in
environmental protection methods should be also envisioned; pre-qualification of
contractors may require submission of the "ecological passport", permits and
licenses, EIA and Conclusions of the SEE
*  Procedures for inspection, by relevant government or regional authorities, of
contractor's compliance throughout its activities should be communicated to the
contractor and specified in the contract
5. Disbursement of Bank's funds for Procurement of certain types of equipment,
works and services for site specific activities should be conditioned on Russian
assurance of contractor's compliance with applicable Russian legislation, procedures
and standards as confirmed by appropriate and current "ecological passports",
permits, licenses and Conclusions of the SEE and other mandatory types of State
Expertise and certification, including hygienic, food production, etc., valid, at least,
for the life-time of the SFPP
6. Regional Components' and Thematic Leaders should liaise closely with regional
offices of the SCEP (regional administrations and regional branches of other relevant
government agencies) to seek their guidance and to ensure timely initiation (if
required) of an EIA, application for necessary permits, certification and licenses as
well as conducting of the SEE coordinated and integrated with other types of
applicable state expertise reviews
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



32
7. Compliance with applicable Russian standards, procedures and guidelines in relation
to planning and implementation of forest harvesting cycle. Some additional site-
specific logging/ harvesting mitigation measures may include, but not limited to:
* Site selection and preparation (avoid wetlands and areas damaged by acid rains or
pollution; clearly define areas to be harvested and mark areas that should not be
logged for conservation of soils, species of flora and fauna, watershed protection;
establish criteria for logging on slopes and near water; siting of roads - avoid
steep grades on hillsides; ensure proper maintenance, stabilization and drainage of
roads; etc.)
* Proper planning of logging activities [maintain inventory of species present in the
area and their dynamics, and plan harvesting intensity, methods and timing based
on this information; use low impact harvesting equipment, minimize skid trail
distances and avoid skidding logs parallel to slope; avoid clearing on steep,
unstable slopes or highly erosive soils; leave adequate number and quality of
seed trees; re-establish forest cover as soon as possible and/or use intermediate
tree crops or mulching for exposed soils; limit use of fire and size of burn where
possible (note: large-scale fires add to "greenhouse" gases emissions and global
warming); leave buffer zones of undisturbed forest; provide for adequate logging
waste disposal;]
8. Participation of pilot forest enterprises (and subsequently selection of areas for
reforestation efforts, "controlled fire" experiments, and other potential "groundwork"
investments), non-wood products (hunting and trapping, etc.) stations and camps, etc.
should be determined on the basis of transRarent selection and eligibility criteria,
which may have the following environmental and social determinants:
3 Sub-projects should aim at developing efficient nurseries, reforesting areas
damaged by fires and pest outbreaks or clear-cut by previous practices as well as
environmental protection and biodiversity preservation
* Sub-projects should aim at introducing innovative, environmentally friendly and
efficient forest harvesting cycles and waste-minimization wood-processing
technologies as well as related equipment
* Sub-projects should not cause deterioration of environmental quality in the areas
outside sub-project areas, meet all national environmental, health, safety, labor
and product quality requirements and standards
* Sub-projects should have an EIA and a positive Conclusion of the SEE conducted
at the regional level
* Sub-projects should not lead to alterations to local land use patterns, including
state-recognized and customary tenure, overloading existing local infrastructure
and social services
*  Sub-projects should aim at utilizing indigenous knowledge of forest dwellers to
intensify or modify non-wood production, increase food security and reduce
poverty as well as at mitigating against volatilities of forest products' markets
* Sub-projects should address the risk of encountering unknown archeological or
historical sites by adopting and following appropriate procedures, satisfactory to
the IBRD, addressing such a risk
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



33
* Sub-projects should not cause displacement of population without resettlement
plans acceptable to the IBRD
* Each sub-project should be carried out with due diligence and efficiency under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent and
well-trained staff in adequate numbers
. Participating forest enterprises and non-wood production entities should be
private companies and have recent financial audit report, an ecological passport
(which can be considered a substitute for an environmental audit) and valid
environmental and other permits and licenses
* All agrochemicals and fire-fighting foams, solvents, etc. which may be purchased
or used during SFPP implementation should be applied, stored, handled and
distributed in accordance with requirements and standards of the Russian
Federation acceptable to the Bank
It should be made explicitly clear that certain types of projects and activities will not
be financed with the IBRD funds. An indicative list, which has been drafted based on
policies and guidelines of a number of international and bilateral institutions, is provided
in Annex 9.
It must be stressed once again that besides the environmental assessment-related
provisions set forth in OP/BP 4.01; some SFPP-related activities may hypothetically
trigger activation of the mandatory requirements of other Bank safeguard policies and
procedures. They include: OD 4.03: Agricultural Pest Management; OP 4.07: Water
Resources Management; OP 4.09: Pest Management; OD 4.20: Indigenous Peoples; OD
4.30: Involuntary Resettlement; OP 4.36: Forestry; OP/BP: Projects on International
Waterways; OP/BP 7.60: Projects in Disputed Areas; OP/BP 8.50: Emergency Recovery
Assistance; OPN 11.01: Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Pesticides in Bank-
Financed projects and their Procurement When Financed by the Bank; OPN 11.03:
Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed projects; OP 14.70: Involving
Nongovernmental Organizations in Bank-Supported Activities; BP 17.50: Disclosure of
Operational Information; BP 17.55: Inspection Panel (see Annex 4).
These policies may require preparation of resettlement and indigenous people
management plans, development and adoption certain procedures as well as notification
of neighboring countries in cases when implementation of certain activities may cause
deterioration of transboundary waterways and/or be affected by activities being
implemented on adjacent territories.
In each specific case that may potentially warrant compliance with the above
policies and procedures, the borrower should contact the SFPP proiect team and/or
seek guidance from the Bank's International and Environmental Law Unit of the
Lezal Department. In such hypothetical cases, compliance with the referred
provisions should become a bindinz requirement for disbursement of the Bank
funds.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



34
9. Scope of monitoring should be clearly two-tiered: (a) overall project performance
monitoring and supervision focusing on measurable inputs/outputs, and (b) activity-
and site-specific environmental monitoring; (A) may include: (a) number of
regulations drafted and adopted in accordance with the agreed schedule as well as
number of insurance policies issued, EIAs prepared and SEEs conducted for sub-
projects' activities; (b) number of training curricula and courses developed, approved
and delivered, (c) number of people trained, audiences reached, training tours, etc.,
(d) establishment or actual strengthening of proposed organizations, (e) contracts
signed and equipment delivered and installed, (f) hectares of reforested areas, fire
and pest rehabilitated, sprayed, monitored, mapped, etc., (g) increase in non-wood
forest products' trade, measured in cans, boxes, kilograms sold and their price value,
etc.; (h) hectares of certified forests; (B) its precise scope is rather difficult to define
right now as exact locations have not yet been determined; nevertheless, both
environmental and other monitoring and inspection should be built upon existing
systems and programs routinely carried out by respective regional branches of various
federal ministries and agencies with particular focus on their coordination, integration
and consistency in analytical methods, sampling sites, frequency of surveillance,
presentation formats; this monitoring should strive to be as site- or activity-specific as
possible [the IASC should ensure transparent, unrestricted and free (not for
payment) flow of environmental monitoring and other information on Federal
and regional levels between relevant ministries and agencies; public should have
access to environmental information as required by Russian law]; monitoring and
inspection of implementation of any SEE and other mandatory types of the state
expertise Conclusions will fall under this tier, and will be implemented by duly
regional authorities; monitoring and inspection should also focus on and ensure that:
(a) loggers, harvesters, operators, etc. adhere to their conditions of contract and only
designated areas are accessed and only specified species and volumes are harvested,
(b) harvesting and transportation do not create unanticipated environmental problems
(monitoring of soil fertility and erosion, stream water quality, groundwater level,
vegetation and wildlife changes, etc.), (c) changes in species and site conditions are
identified and stand treatment prescriptions are altered as appropriate, (d) no
unpredicted socio-economic impacts occur, and if they do, that adequate steps are
taken to mitigate them, and that a mechanism exists for community organizations to
monitor and evaluate the project, (e) financial distributions are adjusted if local social
services are overburdened, etc.
We feel it necessary to make additional comments and recommendations that may
be considered during the SFPP appraisal:
*  Close coordination between and engaEement of all SFPP federal and refional
stakeholders in the Process of draftin! improved forestry refulatorv framework,
including financial, accounting, insurance and certification instruments and
mechanisms, will be of a paramount importance; in our opinion, the proposed
composition of the IASC should be expanded to include (or at least their
participation should be ensured when deemed necessary) appropriate representatives
of the: Ministry of Natural Resources, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



35
Health (particularly its Sanitary-Epidemiological Service), Ministry of Justice,
Ministry of Internal Affairs (particularly its Fire Inspection), Ministry of Emergency
Situations, State Land Committee, State Customs Committee, State Committee on
Standards. Federal Service on Geodesy and Cartography, Federal Service on
Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, State Insurance Company; this
composition of the IASC will help to ensure elaboration of proposed legislation
and regulations in a transparent, participatory fashion as well as their
consistency with existing Russian legal framework and tradition; Russian
counterparts should also be advised to start thinking about developing a " legislative
outreach program" to ensure that proposed laws and regulations successfully pass
bureaucratic hurdles in federal and regional parliaments - getting parliamentary
commissions on natural resources and enviromnent involved will help to promote the
cause
It is important to develop prior to the Board approval a transparent list of Federal,
regional and sectoral laws and regulations which should be drafted during
implementation of the SFPP; it is essential to ensure that leadership, coordination,
realism, and ease of use are ensured during this drafting process; project
implementation plan should include arrangements permitting periodical checking of
progress and that all documents are fully viable for the aim they are being developed;
all documents should be "custom-tailored" and accurately relate to the administrative
and management level of authority and responsibility with which they are concerned
and should be implemented by
. When amending forest leasing regulations and procedures, the following general
principles may be considered: (a) any new lease or auction should be well publicized
both nationally and internationally, (b) anplicant's aualifications and the right to
bid should be based upon company's financial track record, its compliance with
national, including environmental, forestry. etc., legislation, its experience with
forestr and membership in relevant industry associations, (c) foreien companies
should be screened by an independent firm to review their track record,
particularly as that relates to business capacity, marketing skills, respect for host-
country laws, environmental record, its financial status and compliance with tax code,
i.e. it's important to get assurances that companies' have been good corporate
citizens; (d) introduction of application fees and Particularly Performance bonds
that are paid up front or secured by a third party, and returned to the
concessionaire once the lease contract ends only if it has complied with agreed
environmental and social standards
* In our opinion, the proposed creation of the FPTF under the IASC is not well justified
as well as it may add complexity, duplication and confusion in the already "over-
crowded policy playground" in the forestry sector; it mav be advisable to consider
formalizing the existing Ad Hoc Forestry Forum, limiting its membership to
organizations outside the government, namely the private sector, academia, NGOs,
etc., and clarifyine its functions in relation to the SFPP IASC as well as any
other potential proiects
* The proposed creation of the FTC and RCBD (in Krasnoyarsk), FTC (in Khabarovsk)
and RTC (in St. Petersburg) does not seem well justified; it is proposed that
alternatives for establishment of entities with similar functions should be further
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



36
explored and implemented within existing regional organizational structures
(already referred to in the SFPP documentation); this will help to preserve, strengthen
and build upon existing institutions with reputable human and technical capabilities; a
rapid assessment of available strengths and deficiencies will help to make objective
selection decisions; subsequently, selected organizations should receive, in addition
to already proposed support,  advice on developing or adjusting their statutes,
operating procedures, etc. to incorporate expanded functions and responsibilities (this
arrangement will logically continue an approach already built-in the SFPP,
namely strengthening indigenous institutions, rather building new ones; see
arrangements for the SFPP management - FSS, no free-standing PIU, use
services of the CPPI, etc.); it is also advisable that these selected organizations
(and IASC, FFS, etc.) be assisted in developing environment-friendly policies (or
mission statements) which may include their commitment to use recycled paper,
safe energv, reduce waste, establish community outreach programs, etc. - this
may be an example of good citizenship, have considerable reputational benefits and
show implementation of project objective on the ground
Though it is clear that there will be no major adverse environmental and social
impacts associated with the SFPP, because the scope and site-specific characteristics
of many proposed activities are not current available, we recommend that a small
contingency fund should be budgeted under the SFPP to finance EIA
preparation, the SEE review at the regional level as well as implementation of
any mitiaation and monitoring actions that may be required in accordance with
any Conclusions of the SEE and/or any other type of mandatory state expertise;
it is also important to reach a clear understanding in relation to responsibilities for
preparing any future EIA, conducting any SEE and other types of mandatory state
expertise as well as procedures for estimating associated costs and who will bear
them [we suggest that the Bank may formally require Russian counterparts to
submit draft TOR for any EIA for Bank's review and concurrence, necessary
for disbursement of funds;  in our very tentative estimate the proposed
contingency fund should not exceed US$250,000]
* Similar arrangements can be incorporated into the SFPP to finance any emeraency
fire-fighting and pest control activities in any of the project regions (as discussed
during project preparation); should a decision to establish such fund be taken, the
Bank should advise- the borrower on the elaboration of anpropriate
environmental Procedures for preparina an emergency oneration in accordance
with OP 4.01
*  As project implementation moves away from Moscow and many new environmental,
social and other related policies have been recently adopted by the IBRD, it is
proposed that the Bank arranzes or initiates, within regional project launch
workshops, trainina on implementation and Practice of some of the key
environmental ODs/OPs referred to in Annex 4; this will also require their
translation into Russian and preparation of case-studies
*  It is advisable to provide assistance under Component A to develop EIA and/or an
environmental audit euidelines for proiects and operations in various forestry
sub-sectors; this should be closely linked to the proposed elaboration of insurance
products as these guidelines will help to timely identify and reduce environmental
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



37
risk; unfortunately, we do not understand how forestry insurance policies and
products can be developed without clear definition of environmental liabilities
It is advisable that the SFPP beneficiaries, including FFS, regional organizations and
the private sector, think about and/or seek advice and assistance in developing
incentives structure, career paths, performance evaluation and iob rotation
procedures, etc. for the staff that has successfully concluded training to be provided
under the project as well as to attract new cadres to the sector
We support the idea of introducing a sustainable forest certification system that
should be implemented in an integrated two-tiered way (mandatory and
voluntary): (a) through relevant programs run by the State Standards Committee as
affiliate of the International Organization for Standardization, combined with those
run (if any) by Russian trade associations and industry bodies, and (b) through "third-
party" certification, similar to that of the Forest Stewardship Council (based on its ten
principles as well as 1992 UNCED "Authoritative Statement on Principles for a
Global Consensus on the Management, Conservation and Sustainable Development
of All Types of Forests"), to be implemented by NGOs and associated private
business community; it is important to ensure from the very start that the proposed
certification is not perceived as a new bureaucratic hurdle and mechanism for
extortion; as sustainable forest certification concept is rather new both globally and in
Russia, the Bank may wish to support, through the SFPP, a limited effort to
disseminate and discuss relevant information and experience
* In view of the recent expansion of the Internet and World Wide Web (WWW) and
existing Russian capabilities in satellite imagery, global positioning, etc., it is
recommended to review opportunities for the SFPP to better utilize these innovations
in relation to proposed strengthening of GIS application for forestry data
management, spatial and other analysis as well as to support WWW and Internet
creation and hook-ups for IASC, FFS and selected forest or2anizations in all
three Pilot regions
* It is recommended that within Component B, non-wood products, special attention
be paid to preventina over-harvesting and depletion of natural stocks of medical
plants as well as other species of flora and fauna registered in the Russian Red
Book; these plants and other non-wood products can become generators of income,
but their utilization should proceed on sustainable basis and will require
establishment of procedures for routine collection of credible information
(reportin! and accounting) on their production and trade both in organized and
informal markets; a small pilot operation for sustainable cultivation (through
community participation) of medical plants can be supported in one of the SFPP
regions (this can be supported by cooperative efforts of health and pharmaceutical
industry, and other environmental and research organizations)
* The proiect needs clarification of the relevance and scope of the proposed
"carbon sequestering" and "carrvin2 capacity" studies/activities, particularly (a)
as these concepts are not yet well understood both qualitatively and quantitatively and
(b) their relationship to activities undertaken by other organizations in Russia in
accordance with their mandates and within a number of international conventions;
defining of the precise scope of the above interventions will benefit from cross-
fertilization with other activities supported by a number of bilateral and multilateral
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



38
institutions; the IBRD may also wish to think about (a) disseminating and
discussing its many publications on the above topics, produced by various
departments, with Russian counterparts, and/or (b) how this project or Russia can
benefit from or get involved into a number of world-wide initiatives announced by
the Bank (e.g. Forest Market Transformation Initiative, etc.) as well as seek
continuation and expansion of GEF support.
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - TOR for EIA [excluded]
Annex 2 - SFPP Project Documentation Provided by the IBRD
* IBRD Staff Back-to-Office Reports dated July 15, 1998, October 1, 1998
and December 23, 1998
* Project Concept Document dated April 13, 1998 together with a draft
Project Information  Document dated April 14, 1998   and an
Environmental Data Sheet dated June 12, 1997
* Detailed Project Description [final version also attached separately as
Annex 12]
* Minutes of Public Consultation Meetings in Three Project Regions (in
Russian)
Annex 3 - Russian and International Bibliography
a  On the State of the Environment in the Russian Federation in 1993 and
1994.The State Reports. Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Natural Resources. Moscow, 1994 and 1995 (In Russian)
* Ecological Safety of Russia. Security Council of the Russian Federation.
Volumes 1 and 2. Moscow 1995, 1996 (In Russian)
i  National Report. Strategic Resources of Russia. Information and
Analytical Materials. Moscow, 1996 (In Russian)
* International Agreements with Participation of Russia. Two volumes.
NIA-Priroda, Moscow 1998 (In Russian)
* Russian Federation. Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 16549-RU,
May 6, 1997
* Russian Federation. Forest Policy Review. Promoting Sustainable Sector
Development During Transition. Report No. 16222-RU. Agriculture,
Industry and Finance Division, Country Department III, Europe and
Central Asia Region. The World Bank. December 10, 1996
* Russian Federation. Biodiversity Conservation Project. Project
Document. Global Environment Facility. May 1996
* Russian Federation. Ozone Depleting substance Consumption Phase-out
Project. Global Environment Facility. Project Document. May 1996
* Russian Federation. Green house Gas Reduction Project. Global
Environment Facility. Project Document. November 1995
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



39
*  Russian Federation. Environment Management Project. The World Bank.
May 1995
*  The Disappearing Russian Forest. A  Dilemma in Soviet Resource
Management. By Brenton M. Barr & Kathleen E. Braden, Rowman &
Littlefield, Hutchinson, London. 1988
. Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. Three volumes. World Bank
Technical paper No. 139. The World Bank, 1991 9with subsequent
Environmental Sourcebook Updates, Nos. I - 23, 1994 -1998)
* Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook. Annual Meetings
Edition, the World Bank Group, 1997
* The Task Managers Handbook. The World Bank's Project Cycle: From
Identification to Completion. Operations Policy Group, Operations Policy
Department, the World Bank, 1995
* The World Bank Inspection Panel. By Ibrahim F.I. Shihata. Published for
the World Bank by Oxford University Press, World Bank, 1994
* Environmental Manual. Sectoral Environmental Assessment Sourcebook.
Directorate-General for Development. Chapter 9: Forestry. Sector
Checklist and Background notes.   Commission of the European
Communities, June 1993
i Guidelines for Climate Change Global Overlays. Environment
Department Papers No. 047, the World Bank, February 1997
* The Forest Sector. A World Bank Policy Paper. The World Bank, 1991
* Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines. Environment Department, the
World Bank, 1988
3 Economic Perspectives on Nature Tourism, Conservation and
Development. Environment Department Papers No. 055, The World
Bank, September 1997
* Carrying Capacity. Sustainable Use and Demographic Determinants of
Natural Habitats and Ecosystems Management. Environment Department
Papers No. 35, the World Bank, June 1996
. Ecotourism and Conservation: A Review of Key Issues. Environment
Departrnent Papers No 033, the World Bank, April 1996
. An Enviromnental and Economic Assessment of Forest Management
Options: A Case Study in Malaysia Environment Department Papers, No.
026, the World Bank, October 1995
* Forestry. The World Bank's Experience. A World Operations Evaluations
Study. Operations Evaluation Department, the World Bank, 1991
* The Ecology and Management of Non-Timber Forest Resources. World
Bank Technical Paper. No 322, the World Bank, 1996
*  Small-scale Harvesting Operations of Wood and Non-wood Forest
Products Involving Rural People. FAO Forestry Paper No. 87, FAO,
Rome, 1988
* Forestry Policies in Europe - An Analysis. FOA Forestry Paper No.92,
FAO, Rome, 1989
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



40
* Manual on Sawmill Operations Maintenance. FAO Forestry Paper No.96,
FAO, Rome, 1990
* Economic Assessment of Forestry Project Impacts. FAO Forestry Paper
No. 106, FAO, Rome, 1992
* Assessing Forestry Project Impacts: Issues and Strategies. FAO Forestry
Paper No. 114, FAO, Rome, 1993
* State of the World Forests. 1998. FAO, Rome, 1999
* Status of Multilateral Treaties related to the Environment. IUCN
Environmental Law Centre, June 1996
* The UNEP/ICC/FIDIC Guide to ISO 14001 Certification/registration. 1"
edition, 1999
*  The Directory of Environmental Groups in the Newly Independent States
and Baltic Nations. Academic, Governmental, Non-govemmental, and
Other Organizations in the Former Soviet Union. Compiled by Dr. C.
Grant Pendill, Jr., Lynn Richards, Nameeta Tolia, Nina Zabelina,
Svyatoslav  Zabelin.  1990-1992   Edition.  Kompass  Resources
International, Publisher, 1992
Annex 4 - List of IBRD Environment-and Social-Related Policies and Procedures
*  OD 2.11: Country Assistance Strategy, November 1992
*  BP 2.11: Content of a Country Assistance Strategy, January 1995
*  BP 2.20: Policy Framework Papers, January 1997
* OP/BP/GP 4.01: Environmental Assessment, January 1999
  OP/BP/GP 4.02: Environmental Action Plans, October 1994
3  GD 4.03: Agricultural Pest Management, July, 1992
3 GP 4.03: Agricultural Pest Management, April 1994
- OP/BP 4.04; Natural Habitats, September 1995
* OP 4.07: Water Resources Management, July 1993
* OP 4.09: Pest Management, December 1998
* OD 4.15: Poverty Reduction, December 1991
* OD 4.20: Indigenous Peoples, September 1991
* OP 4.20: Gender Dimensions of Development, April 1994
* OD 4.30: Involuntary Resettlement. June 1990
* OP/GP 4.36: Forestry, March 1993
* OP.BP/GP 7.50: Projects on International Waterways, October 1994
* OPIBP/GP 7.60: Projects in Disputed Areas, October 1994
* OPIBP/GP 8.50: Emergency Recovery Assistance, August 1995
*  OD 9.00: Processing of Investment Lending, June 1991
*  OD  9.02: Procedures for Investment Operations under the Global
Environment Facility, May 1992
*  OP/BP 10.00: Investment Lending: Identification to Board Presentation,
June 1994
*  OPN 11.01: Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Pesticides in Bank
Financed Projects and their Procurement When Financed by the Bank,
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



41
March 1985 (to be issued as OP/BP 4.77: Guidelines for the Use,
Selection and Specification of Pesticides in Public Health Prograrns)
* OPN 11.03: Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects,
September 1986 (to be issued as OP/BP 4.11: Cultural Property)
* OD 14.70: Involving Nongovernmental organizations In Bank-Supported
Activities, August 1989
*  OP 14.70: Involving Nongovernmental organization in Bank-Supported
Activities, March 1998
* BP 17.50: Disclosure of Operational Information, September 1993
* BP 17.55: Inspection Panel, February 1997
Annex 5 - List of Selected Russian Environment- and Social-Related Legislation
* The Constitution of the Russian Federation - December 25, 1993
* Land Code - April 25, 1991, as amended April 28 & December 24, 1993,
  Criminal Code - October 27, 1960, as amended June 1, 1994.
- Code on Administrative Offenses - June 20, 1984, as amended July 16,
1993.
* Civil Code - June 11, 1964, as in December 24, 1992 version and the first
part as signed by the President of the Russian federation, November 30,
1994 . 
L Labor Code - December 9, 1971, as amended September 25, 1992.
*  Water Code - June 30, 1972, as amended.
* Forestry Code - January 29, 1997
* Fundamentals of Forestry Legislation - March 6, 1993
*  Fundamentals of Public Health Protection - July 22, 1993, as amended
December 24, 1993.........
* Fundamentals of Labor Protection - August 6, 1993, as amended Julyl 8,
1995, March 17, 1997, .............
* Law "On Environmental Protection" - December 19, 1991, as amended
June 2, 1993..........
* Federal Law "On Ecological Expertise" - November 23, 1995, as
amended Apri]115, 1998, ........
* Federal Law "On Payment for the Use of Water Objects" - May 6, 1998
* Federal Law "On Safe Handling of Pesticides and Agrochemicals" - July
19, 1997
* Federal Law "On Wastes of Production and Consumption" - June 24,
1998
* Law "On Standardization" - June 10, 1993
* Law "On Certification of Products and Services" - June 10, 1993
* Law "On Protection of Consumers' Rights" February 7, 1992
* Law "On Underground Resources" - February 21, 1992, as amended June
26, 1992, March 3, 1995...........
*  Law "On Protection of Atmospheric Air" - July 14, 1982
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



42
* Law "On Wildlife Protection" - April 24, 1995
* Law "On Animal World" - July 14, 1982
*  Law "On Specially Protected Natural Areas" - March 22, 1995
*  Law "On Land Payment" October 11, 1991, as amended August 22, 1995,
November 18, 1997, December 31, 1997, July 25, 1998 ................
* Law "On Sanitary-Epidemiological Well-being of the Population" - April
19, 1991 as amended or adopted in a new version in 1998 ...................
Federal Law "On Medical Means" - June 22, 1998
* Federal Law "On Hyderometeorological Service" - July 19, 1998
Law "On Protection and Use of Historical and Cultural Monuments" -
December 15, 1978
* Law "On Fire Safety" - December 21, 1994
Federal Law "On Safety of Hydrotechnical Facilities" - July 21, 1997
* Law "On Protection of Population and Territory from Emergency
Situations of Environmental and Technological Character" - December
21, 1994
* Law "Mass Information Media" - December 21, 1991
* Law "On Public Associations" - May 9, 1995, as amended July 19, 1998
. Federal Law "On Ratification of the Framework Convention On
Protection of National Minorities" - June 18, 1998
* Federal Law "On Ratification of -Convention On Protection of Human
Rights and Basic Freedoms and Protocols to It" - March 30, 1998
. Federal Law "On Insurance" - November 27, 1992, as amended
December 31, 1997 (the title changed to law "On Organization of
Insurance Business in the Russian Federation)
* Federal Law "On Mandatory Social Insurance from Accidents at
Production (Sites) and from Professional Illnesses" - July 24, 1998
* Federal Law "On Basic Guarantees of Child's Rights in the Russian
Federation" - July 24, 1998
* Federal Law "On Folk Artistic Trade" - January 9, 1999
* The Statute Of Leningrad Oblast - October 27, 1994
* The Statute of Khabarovsk Kray - September 27, 1995
*  The Statute of Krasnoyarsk Kray - February 29, 1996
Annex 5A - List of Selected Russian Legislation and Requirements Related to
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA - OVOS) and the
State Ecological Expertise
*  Law "On Environmental Protection" - Decemberl9, 1991
* Law "On Ecological Expertise" - November 23, 1995, as amended April
15, 1998, ....................
* Governmental Resolution No. 942 "On the Status of the State Ecological
Expertise" - September 22, 1993
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



43
. Governmental Resolution No. 585 "On the State Expertise of
Architectural Designs and Project Estimates and Approval of
Construction Projects" - June 20, 1993
*  Order of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
(MEPNR) No. 222 "On the Status of the Environmental Impact
Assessment in the Russian Federation" - July 18, 1994, registered in the
Ministry of Justice under No. 695, September 22, 1994
* Joint Letter of the MEPNR (No. 02-12/65-1571, May 21, 1993) and
Russian Agency for International Cooperation and Development (No.
3.14.2.-3/312, May 19, 1993) "On the State Ecological Expertise for
Enterprises with Foreign Investments"
* Guidelines for the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure in Site
Selection, Feasibility Studies, and Designing the Construction
(Rehabilitation, Expansion, and Retooling) of National-Economy Projects
and Complexes. MEPNR, Moscow, 1992
. MEPNR Letter No. 01-20/65-5568 "On Mandatory Use of EIA
procedures for Pre-Planning, Pre-Design and Design Documentation" -
December 14, 1993
* Instructions on the State Ecological Expertise for Pre-Project and Project
Design Documentation. MEPNR, Moscow, 1993
* Instructions for Establishing the Environmental Substantiation for
Economic and Other Activities in Pre-Investment and Project
Documentation. MEPNR, Moscow, 1994
- On the Mandatory Certification System Under Ecological Requirements -
the SCEP Order No. 459, November 1, 1996
*  On Hygienic Conclusions - the State Customs Committee Letter No. 21-
15/26400, December 17, 1998
* Resolution No. 18-18 of the Ministry of Construction (MOC) "On
Approval of Procedure for the State Expertise of Construction Projects
Involving Foreign Capital in the Russian Federation" - February 16, 1995
*  RDS 11-201-95 "Instruction on the State Expertise Procedure for
Construction Projects". Approved by the MOC Resolution No. 18-39,
April 24, 1995
. SNiP 11-01-95 "Instruction of the Procedure of Development, Co-
ordination, Approval and Composition of Design Documentation for
Construction of Enterprises. Buildings and Facilities", MOC, January 7,
1995
* SP 11-101-95 Code "System of Normative Documents in Construction.
Summary of Regulations. Procedure for Development, Co-ordination,
Approval and Composition of Investment Feasibility Studies for
Construction of Enterprises, Buildings and Facilities", MOC, June 30,
1995
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



44
Annex 6 - List of Selected Russian Legislative and Executive Bodies
.  Interagency Commission of the Security Council of the Russian
Federation on Ecological Security (as established and approved on
December 24, 1998)
*  Committee on Science, Culture, Education, Health and Ecology,
Council of Federation of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation
*  Committee on Natural Resources and Use of Nature, the State Duma
of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation
*  Committee on Ecology, the State Duma of the, Federal Assembly of the
Russian Federation
*  Ministry of Natural Resources
*  Ministry of Agriculture and Food
* Ministry of Finance (Strakhnadzor)
*  Ministry of Economy
*  Ministry of Taxes and Duty Collection
*  Ministry of Health (Sanitary-Epidemiological Service)
*  Ministry of Civil Defense, Emergency Situations and Rehabilitation of
Natural Calamities
* Ministry of Internal Affairs (Fire Inspection)
a  Ministry of Labor
*  State Committee  on  Environmental Protection  (State  Ecological
Expertise)
o  State Land Committee
*  State Committee on Standards and Metrology
*  State Customs Committee
*  Federal Forestry Service
  Federal Service on Geodesy and Cartography
*  Federal Service on Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring
Annex 7 - List of Selected Local and International NGOs Consulted During SFPP
Preparation
*  Socio-Ecological Union
*  Druzhina Student Environmental Movement
*  Greenpeace Russia
*  World Wildlife Fund (WWF-Russia)
*  IUCN-CIS
*  Biodiversity Conservation Center
* Friends of Siberian Forests (Krasnoyarsk)
* Public Committee of Ecological Movement (Krasnoyrsk)
* Association to Save Angara and Enisey
* Environmental Protection Society (Leningrad province)
* Green Party (St.Petersburg)
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



45
* Far Eastern Association for the Utilization of Non-Timber Forest
Products (Khabarovsk)
* Geographic Society (Khabarovsk)
Annex 8 - Minutes of Public Consultations in Participatins Regions
(held in Khabarovsk Kray in Decemberl 998 and in Krasnoyarsk Kray
and Leningrad Oblast in February 1999)
[in Russian - next 5 pages]
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



ID#412,From:202-473-8787,                             20JAN99,09:02:40,Page0B3of007
20-JAN-1999 18:23  FROM                        TO    9-8-1012026140005  P.02
"YTBEP)KAO"
3aMecTrTeJm riaBm  aMmHHcTpaLuHH
Xa6apoBcKoro xpu,
qjieH Ha6foaTemaoro xoOMITeTa
no nozAroToBxe flHaomoro npoeKra
~ A. E. JIeBHHTaJT
ilpoTOicoJi
o6inecimemix cflEy2aHd uQ r[HuomoMy nIpoeiy
"YcToAmmBoe flecOilOjEi3oBaHHe B PoccHIMcKoMI cDeAepaWeim",
lpOBeAeHHFUX B r. Xa6apoBcKe 24 AeKa6pq 1998 roza
flpHCyTm=BOBnH:
'ieRm perHoHaJ1Hoi Ha6nmamtemHofi rpynrr,
npeAcTaBHTen m o6mecTeHmix, nlppoAooxpamarx,
Hay La H IIpOH3BoAcTBeCHHx opramH3aux,
COTrpyHKH aAMHHHCTpuIH KpaE,
cpe2xCTBa MaCCOBOfi imaOpMaIIH 6wm  nipe;xcmamneima ra3emram
(<THxOOKeaHCKaS 3Be3Ua>), <d(IpHamypcKHe BeAoMoCTm)>, <KXa6aoBcKHe
BecTHm>, ((MoJIo;xoRo0 A HeBOCTOIqHHD>, CTYAxH  TeaeB"AemHu ,BrTPK,
TBA, C3T, paA ocraHo u ,ILBIPK, <BoCTOK Poccini>.
rloHMeHHmIl CIIrCOK y-aCTrHKOB o6iecTBemix cnymamil
B IlpEloxemiH  1.
Co BCTYnIIHTIbHhIM H CJ OBfl  o Heo6xolAD4OCTH npoBeAzeHH  periao-
HmJanTbrX o6iuecCmmx enymaHm  no iLbnoTomy npoeMy, a TaioKe
C IpaTKOR HH4OpMagCI  o mEnomfHeoll pa6oTe B paiNax Tb oTHoro
IIpoeIcma BlcTlynlEui JIeBHHTaIEh AJE .
C mHt)pMaumft 0 coARepxaEa Ht BJiH'fHe npeionarIaerMx 3aTpaT
110 xaz1AO# 13 KOMUnoHeFT BEJcTzyJmum:
IlOM  OB B.0. - no KomnoHerre "A";
Ceom A.A. - no KomnToRevTC 'S.1.";
3axap EnoB A.C. - no xomnomeHme "';2".



ID#412,From:202-473-8787,                             20JAN99,09:02:40,Page004of007
20-JAN-1999 18:24  FROM                        TO   9-8-1012026140005  P.03
OT peHoHamHoHfI Ha6nmoraTemHoii rpynnbl  Bbicr:ynTH  ee xoop;wHa-
TOP UleiiHray3 A.C., oxapaicrepmloBaB HweonorHlo rIHloTHoro ripoexra H
Hpef,oJaraeme 3xoJIorHqecKHe, 3KOHoMHtIecKHe H coLHaniJme pe3yu,raTm.
BonpocLi:
JIonaiH C.M. - inaHHpyercq nLa BO3BmpaUTh 3aU M TOnIEKO 3a cIeT 6io=,e-
Ta Bifinpe,nonaraeTrc ycraHoBneHxe apeH,gori jTuaTmi?
CHMaxoB BM.1- IlpeAycMoTpeHEI Jn  CpeaCrTa Ha HayqHo-HccnegoBaTeJIbcaiwe
pa3pa6onr?
rlocryua sir. - xaime  KipegycmoTpeH  xaman3 pea nI   AonojIeimHoH
JieconpogflflEH?
STpCPHrIKHIH  C.f. - xax 6yzeT yinpaasqmCi [LoHonR npoecrr B opraHa3a-
imoHRHom n;aHe?
HBaHOBCxHM A.B. - xaxCOBE1 u IpTm3uI  oT6opa 3aiC3raeMoro o6opyAowam?
ManeaHoB A. F. - peuycmoTpeHa nH 3arpy3xa MallmHocTpoHTefleHoro KOM-
nneKca B xpae B nporiecce pe&moawn   napoeicra?
3a6y6emi EB. - ame AeR CTBHx flpeUycMoTpeHL B imane nonyeHmm ot-
cpox  InaTexcei no H)AC H TrMo)eHHIm  nomnuHHam?
OHnnz=noBR'I P.P. - npezycMorpeTia CH    oTcpoqia sTmonHeHE  pa6oT B cny-
sae 3a,Aep.KH B nocTyremmt cpezcTm?
Ha BOupoCbI OTBeqanH  JIeBHHALm A.B., rlOMHHOB B.O., IlletlIraY3 A.C.,
Cemnora A.A., 3axapeEmoB A.C.
BMcTrmeIuI:
iCpm=2 C.n. oTmenm  smocm  H o,HoBpeMeHmo cno=ocm  peamla-
mm npoewrra Bmpa3n coMHeime B 0oi1yaemoCTH 3alia no xomoBeHrax
S. 1. H E.2., nonTomy lpcAno)a   3apaHee np,eAycmorpeT  pacxoAi 3a caeT
ipaesoro 61o0 aeTa fIpeAnoi n nposecT  Aonomnvjmeamie paciem  34))K-
TsHEOCTH UpoeCrr
CHMaKOB B.H. oTme'ias Uenecoo6pa3Hocm  peanJ3wm  1XnocKTa B perHORe,
BuCKBa3aI H8Cw TU TCTHymO Heo6XJoAMmOCh pacm1 pemHH   Ray'ELx B  eH=-
HepWCx pa3pa6aOTK B o6niacTH 3KoflorEK.



ID#412,From:202-473-8787,                             20JRN99,09:02:40,Page005of007
20-JAN-1999 1B:24  FROM                        TO   9-8-1012026140005  P.04
ManeDaiIOB A.r. He Bbi,Jpacs  COMHmenHH  B HpICHOcTR  rlaoTHoro rpoeKa
AUJl 3KOHOMHKH Xpas, OTMeH  B03MOXMOCTh H HeO6XO=HOCTb 3srpy3KH
KpaeBoro Mg   ocTporTejTT.HOrO KOmimexKa 3a3aMH, CBK3.HH6mH C peaJIH-
3aURerl rloTHoro npoeicra.
PE3BOJIEOLM:
1. OrmeTxTm  Heo6xoxHMocTh l 3HaqfMocTh LrhoTHoro  npoeKcTa =J  3KOHO-
MHqeCCOrI 2K3HH KpaR, BKMOqSA BOUPOCTI 3KOJ1OrmH  H 3SimToCTH Hace-
AeCHHI.
2. OAo6pim gerreTebHocTE aAm icTpatuH  ipau no noA.roToBnce rHaoTHoro
HpOCKTr
3. npoaHaJHz3mpoRam  c no3H        perHOHanILHOi 34eKTHBIIOCTH  YCJIOBHJ
cy63afma no KOMnOHeHTe '<<s) rhuIoTmoro ripoexra, npexIaraemme MaH-
4)KHOM P4D. Ecim pac-qeTi noKaxyT nono00TIHJJe pe3yasTaTm, To pe-
coMeHloBaTB  aAm , mcTpauHH  cpax, BwAaTh COOTBeTCIonow rapaHTro
H O4OpPMHTh OHJagllaMH)iO 3aSUBEY Ha Y"acTHe B TlxnoTHoTm npoexcre no
o6exm xOMnOHeHTaM.
4. flpii peaim3ayuH  KOMIOHCUThr <(A)> npIflT  Bce Heo6xo,MmeC MepIJ An
3eimiinorO HCnOJ63oBaSHHI cpeACTB 3aibMa
flpoToKon BeC       I                rypbeB B.B.
nHpEoxeHx  Ha 2 I hCrax.



ID#412, From: 202-473-8787,                                  20JAN99,09:02:40, Page006of007
20-JAN-1999  18:25  FROM                              TO    9-8-1012026i4005   P.05
rlpinoxeHHe 1
CnH4COK
npHcyTcThoDaosHx Ea o6mememmx enymaUaX no IrmoTHomy iipoercTy
<YcTofNxsOe necoiom,3oBaHEe B PocCHjicKoUi DeapRpanHH
A4gpecar                                Aiipec
Ea6ypnn ABUTOmdt AneicceeD'nI 680063, Xa6apoBcK, yn. KIw-1O-TIcHa, 65,
_Hncnmyr BO)CL1 N )xcOnOirwCCeHX upo6.neM
WonTpymxo Bnamnmp MHxafJ-   680013, Xa6apomcl, Hep. KaJIpowlf, 6a.
JiOBKf                        KomITe oxpa u oypy      liezt cpeAE K upHpoAuHx
p_CCypCOB Xa6aponcicoro ca
Bicipmmm2 CTaHxcnas flaxo-    680063, Xa6apoucic ym. rafl3ap  1O , HlcrHriy
rypbCa Baiepi  Biaconi3K      680002, Xa6apoacI yn. MypaweBa-Amypcxoro, 19,
KoMIreT nO axoHomHUe A hcTpa aEM Xa6apoi-
cxoro xpa"
E4pesosB Ali&Tpi OezAopoaig   680020, Xa6apocicy, ynr. BowoqaewcI, 71, ,AwmHH-
_______HJ~~~HIX
3a6y6Cmm EBremi BHROpo-   680000, Xa6apoBM4 yji. (CpyE3, 71
a"q                       _   YYpau e necama X6aoacxoro xpax
3xapeEcoB AiApeR CeproesE     680000, Xa6apoBcK, yn.j lla6ama, 19. o4. 401
fAIHeBocToqmaz Accoiwaumx no  cnonHb3Bamo
ffeCpeuevHmx IpoAY]TrOB JIMca
oBcKHE AmoHaioJHH BIReH-  680030, XafapomcR, y  Jl Aina 57, )ABH14H Tex-
ThCBKl                        HOElAOY   Cy.yOCTpOeHIw
KploNcoB Burrop rnce6oBs'     680000, Xa6apoCX, yn. K MapICa, 56, aAmu.crpa-
=ff Xa6apncicoro Kpa, AeapTaaMerT pnpHpOIx
pCCypCOB
IymmoB Anexcanp HHWicwa-    680000, Xa6apoBCK, yn. IIIa6a=HHa, 19, o0. 401
snq                           PoccSicxoe IapecrucTwO Bce.npuoro (oi=a
AHKOII !NpROA
J1curmn    AnexcamiAp oplico-   680002, Xa6apoBc,i ynT MypamBeBa-Amypcioro, 19,
BGq                           Komwe no 3KOHomX3e AMHCTPaU   Xa6apoB-
CROrO KpaE
AlouaTi  Cepreft HnaHouII      680000. XaapoBcI yji. K Mapxca, 56. a   M NHTP-
uRM Xa6apoDcxoro Im, ynpaneEmc imHeai3IcoHo-
M]ieezx csaefr
MaleBalOB Awoimri rcoprne-  680030, XaapoBCx, yn. .canm, 57, ,1BHHI Tic-
Bllq                           HOJfOrNK OyAOCTpOeHEE
-HeronaeD BEanz    flannoB     680002, Xa6aponcx, y.. Myp n.ena-Amypcoro, 19,
KoMeTT D1 9ROHOIaoCC AmHcrp n Xa6apoB-
cioro KpBE
lIoxya SAzos rpmrophew         680000, xa6_*Bc1, yn. 'ZPYire 72
06UMMco oxpaH npow.z
ImoiOB Bni7awP 0opowx  680620, Xa6apowcx, y. pynae, 71, Y           -paanenae ae-
camE XAi6apoucoro RpM
CflHCOK2 26.12-91 10=2 



ID0412,From :202-473-8787,                                    20JRN99,09:02:40, Page007ofO07
208JPN-1999  18:25   FROM                             TO    9-8-i012026140005   P.06
AJApcCT                                  AA_p_
PH3aoB B.i mm p KOHCTaEET-  680035, Xa6apoBcK, yn. TaxooKeaBcIax, 136, XTY,
HOBER                          necoTexHM-ecmio  HHcmThyTr, Ka4expa 3KOROmNm
Cemora AHaTOmER ARToHoaE       680000, Xa6apoBcK, yni. 3anapHEa,92
OAO '1IaeIbJxec*
CKmaKOB BanepMli 14fBHl q      680670, Xa6apoEcI, yn. MeB'CiKo, 9, K. 3, fipH-
amypcxoe reorpa4Eeceo o6mecrmo
CylcHonanenico BaJxepKf A}IA-    680000, Xa6apoBcK, yn. rlymma,
pCeCBE                         OAO <(Amiecnpom))
40ETmmoBim PaAomlRp Pocrm-   680007, Xa6apoBcx, yJ. BonogaeBoma, 4, ,ZamCeBo-
cflmBH'i                       CTOqHOC JlrCOyCIpouTr3hoe apeCapx=e
llegmay3 AMexcaIAp ConoMo-   680042, Xa6aposcK, yn. TxxooxcaHcKB,
HOBHI                         IHCTYrly  3xOOnMHqeCmx HCCICAOBaHHn
UlryKo B iimRH  Bnawmmpo-   680035, Xa6apoBac, yn. ThxooaeaHcXair, 136, XrTY,
E_q                            neCOrXemeCmig HoCTIyr
LCpm6rw BnaAEMnp BaCFuIbeBn'l  680000, yn. Mypa8scia-AMypcxoro, 36, amlnec-
=____________ _ flnpOMIlpOCKT
flIC%QM 26.12.9310:20                  2
TnTCI P Pt



51
Annex 9 - Proposed Exclusion List. The IBRD funds, provided through the
proposed SFPP, will not be used to support the following activities:
* Production or activities involving harmful or exploiting forms of forced labor/harmful
child labor (Forced labor means all work or services, not voluntarily performed, that
is extractedfrom an individual under threat offorce or penalty. Harmful child labor
means the employment of children that is economically exploitive, or likely to be
hazardous to, or interfere with, the child's education, or to be harmful to the child's
health, or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or social development)
* Production or trade in any product or activity deemed illegal under the Russian
Federation laws or regulations or international conventions and agreements ratified or
to be ratified by the Russian Federation
* Commercial logging operations or the purchase of logging equipment for use in areas
prohibited by the World Bank Forestry Policy (1991)
* Production or trade in tobacco
- Trade in wildlife or wildlife products regulated under CITES (CITES: Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. A List of CITES
listed species should be available from Russian duly authorized government
ministries and agencies)
* Production or trade in pesticide/herbicides subject to international/national phase outs
or bans (A List of pesticides and herbicides subject to phase outs or bans should be
available from Russian duly authorized government ministries and agencies)
* Production or trade in ozone depleting substances subject to international phase out
(A List of the chemical compounds regulated by the Montreal Protocol, which
includes aerosols, refrigerants, foam blowing agents, solvents, and fire protection
agents, together with details of signatory countries and phase out targets should be
available from Russian duly authorized government ministries and agencies)
v Production or activities that impinge on the lands owned, or claimed under
adjudication, by indigenous peoples, without full documented consent of such peoples
* That are in or impacting areas protected by the RAMSAR Convention (Designated
wetlands of international importance)
* That are in or impacting natural World Heritage Sites (Areas ofsignifcant ecological
value that have been internationally recognized as necessary for strict protection by
members of the World heritage Convention)
* That are in or impacting areas on the United Nations List of National Parks and
Protected Areas
* That are in or impacting Strict Nature Reserves/Wilderness Areas, National Parks,
Natural Monuments or Habitats/Species Management Areas as defined by the World
Conservation Union's (IUCN) Guidelines for Protected Area Management
Categories, with the exception of projects specifically intended to improve the
environment and those meeting recognized environmentally appropriate ecotourism
guidelines
* Release of genetically altered organisms into the natural environment
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



52
Annex 10 - Summary Table of Project Benefits and Risks, Proposed Mitigation and
Institutional Responsibilities
General Type of Activities  Benefit/Risk                      Proposed Mitigation/Key
to be Supported by the                                        Institutional
SFPP                                                          Responsibility
PROCUREMENT OF                BENEFITS:                       MITIGATION:
CONSULTANTING
SERVICES:                      *  Improved credibility and   No specific mitigation is
transparency of economic,    required.
1. Selection of national &        financial, accounting policy
international consultants     and regulatory framework in   Any potential institutional
2. Drafting of regulations,       the forest sector comparable   constraints will be mitigated by
procedures, guidelines, etc.  with best international     appropriate design and sequence
3. Improvement of financial,      standards                  of major interventions that
accounting and planning    *  Increased effectiveness and    adequately reflect on existing
4. Improvement of integrated      efficiency of the overall  legal and administrative
computerized data and         forest sector management    frameworks; this will be further
information management        capabilities, including     enhanced by administrative
and dissemination             technical and human         leadership in transparent
5. Professional development       dimensions, data and       implementation, stakeholders
and training                  dimnsoions data and         coordination, involvement of
6. Development of forest          information collection,    NGOs and civil society, close
insurance system and          dissemination               supervision along the agreed
products                                                  performance indicators.
7. Development of mandatory  *  Introduction of international
and voluntary certification   best practices in forest    Selection of consultants should be
systems                       planning, insurance,        conducted in accordance with
8. National satellite imagery,    certification, inventory,  Bank procedures and transparent
meteorological data, maps,    protection, including fire-  selection and eligibility criteria
etc.                          and pest-fighting,          particularly as that relates to their
9. Communication services         reforestation              sector and media expertise,
*  Improved social, economic,   country experience and
financial viability of the  capabilities
forest sector through
enhanced revenue           RESPONSIBILITY:
generation, increased
employment and export      The FFS will lead project
potential as well as      implementation, with the SCEP
attractiveness to national and  contributing in accordance with
foreign investors         its legal mandate.
* Significant knowledge
transfer                   The IASC will provide a forum
for inter-agency coordination.
RISKS:                         The IASC will include high-level
representatives of ministries of:
There are no direct adverse    Economy, Finance, Health,
environmental or social impacts   Agriculture & Food, Taxes &
with anticipated activities, rather   Duty Collection, Labor, Natural
implementation of agreed actions  Resources; Committees of:
may be hindered by lack of     Environmental protection, Land,
commitment, poor coordination    Standards, Forestry, Geodesy &
between major stakeholders, poor  Cartography, Hyderometeorology
communication between the      & Environmental Monitoring.
I Customs.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



53
executive and legislative
branches, inconsistencies in legal  Ad Hoc Forestry Forum will
and administrative frameworks,   provide inputs from the private
poor compliance and enforcement  sector, NGOs, academia, regions
as well as other macro political    and local communities.
and economic factors
Training will be provided through
transparently selected institutions
and organizations.
PROCUREMENT OF                 BENEFITS:                      MITIGATION:
GOODS:
*  Introduction of new and    No specific mitigation is
I. Computer equipment and         more efficient high        required.
software, including GIS,      technologies, equipment,
printers, plotters, scanners,  practices in work and data  Unambiguous compliance with
facsimiles, copy machines,    management, wood and non-  and enforcement of applicable
telephones, etc.              wood forest products        Russian (where not available,
2. Furniture and office           harvesting, processing,     international) requirements,
supplies                      packaging and marketing     procedures and standards should
3. Wood harvesting,            *  Improved effectiveness of    be ensured.
processing and                inventory, fire- and pest   Each type of equipment, planting
transportation equipment      detection, monitoring and   material and agro- and other
4. Non-wood products              fighting capabilities      chemicals procured or to be used
harvesting, processing,    *  More efficient and cost-    under the SFPP should be subject
packaging, labeling, etc.     effective management of     to proper certification, permitting
equipment                     forest resources            and licensing procedures.
5. Monitoring, including       *  Improved forest regeneration
video and detection       .   capabilities and subsequently  Procurement list and bidding
equipment                      environmental and social   documents should include
6. Insecticides, pesticides,      benefits, particularly from  detailed and well-justified
fire-fighting foams,          biodiversity, water quality,    environmental, health, safety and
solvents, etc.                recreational and esthetic   other necessary specification
7. Planting material and seeds    points of view              (energy and fuels efficiency,
vibration, heat, noise, etc.) as
RISKS:                         well as requirements for on-job
training and operational manuals
There are no adverse social &  to be provided with each type of
environmental impacts associated  equipment.
with the proposed activities rather
poor compliance with and       Training of personnel will be
enforcement of existing        provided under the SFPP.
certification, permitting &
licensing, environmental, health,  Close environmental, health and
safety, application, etc.      safety monitoring of handling,
requirements, procedures and   storage, application and discharge
standards pose potential minor  of potential hazardous waste and
risks                          materials will be put in place. No
materials banned under
international agreements will be
procured, and an Exclusion List
will be agreed upon.
RESPONSIBILITY:
The FFS will lead
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



54
implementations, with certain
procurement activities managed
by the CPPI of the EMP.
Appropriate government
agencies will conduct relevant
routine functions in accordance
with their legal mandates.
The high-level IASC will have a
mandate to resolve any potential
bottlenecks.
Close monitoring and supervision
will be in place in accordance
with agreed performance
indicators.
PROCUREMENT OF                BENEFITS:                      MITIGATION:
WORKS:
*  Provide models in modem    No comprehensive mitigation is
1. Creation & modernization       forest management         required, rather:
of nurseries and green-       technologies, including for
houses                        nurseries, reforestation, seed   *  Preparation of an EIA and
2. Reforestation activities       collection and preservation,  conducting SEE and other
3. Testing of new technologies    etc., which would be readily  types of state expertise and
for fire- and pest-fighting   available for replication in  review mandated by the law
4. Testing of new wood            the future in other regions of  and to be implemented by
harvesting and processing     Russia                         duly governmental bodies at
technologies              *  Availability of modern wood     the Regional level (it is
5. Testing of "prescribed or      harvesting, processing and    proposed that EIA guidelines
controlled burning"           transportation equipment that  for activities in various forest
techniques                    will help to increase          sub-sectors should be drafted
6. Collection, processing and     efficiency of production and  within the SFPP)
marketing of non-wood         reduce environmental       *  Elaboration and agreement
forest products               impacts in selected areas and  on Project Selection and
sites                         Eligibility Criteria consistent
*  Increase in economic and       with all Bank safeguard
ecological value of forests   environmental and social
and their products            policies as well as Russian
*  Facilitate poverty alleviation  legislation
& employment generation,    *  Agreement on the proposed
encourage participation of    Exclusion List
local people in forest    *  Compliance with all
management and sustain        applicable Russian (and if
indigenous knowledge          not available, international)
design, permitting, licensing,
RISKS:                            environmental, health, safety
and certification
No major adverse enviromnental    requirements, guidelines and
and social impacts are anticipated  standards
from proposed activities.     *  Certain environmental,
health and safety
Any potential minor               requirements should be
environmental and social impacts  translated into bidding
are well understood, defined and  documents and spelled out in
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



55
narrow in scope.                  contractual obligations
* All agro- and other
They may happen only due to       chemicals as well as fire-
poor site and technology         fighting foams, solvents, etc.
selection, lack of enforcement    that may be purchased or
and non-compliance with existing  used during the SFPP
routine environmental, safety,    implementation should be
design and operational            stored, handled, and applied
requirements, procedures and     in accordance with
standards. Lack and well-trained  requirements and standards
and environmentally conscious     of Russia acceptable to the
staff and workers can hinder      Bank
smooth implementation.        *  Two-tiered project
. .                   ~~~~~~~monitoring and supervision
Additional problems may           along agreed environmental
hypothetically occur due to over-    areed erormance
harvesting of and illegal trade in  iniamtrs sod be
some of non-wood forest
products.                        implemented by appropriate
regional authorities
Hypothetically, some concems  *  Establishment an adequate
may be also associated with       contingency fund to finance
conflicts and claims related to   EIA preparation and SEE
traditional land ownership.       and other types of state
expertise as well as to
Due to wide geographic spread of  finance any required
the SFPP sub-project locations    mitigation and monitoring
and inadequate monitoring,        activities
inspection and reporting
capabilities, some of potential  RESPONSIBILITY:
concerns may be difficult to
identify in a timely fashion thus    The FFS and its regional bodies
causing some problems to persist  and subordinate organizations,
for some time without proper  regional authorities, the SCEP
mitigation.                   and its regional bodies,
particularly SEE and Inspection
"Prescribed/controlled burning"    Departments.
techniques are prohibited by
Russian legislation and to this  Other government ministries and
effect should duly authorized by   agencies and their regional bodies
appropriate executive and/or  as mandated by their functions.
legislative bodies.           Essential role for the IASC to
ensure vertical and horizontal
coordination and resolution of
any bottlenecks in a timely
fashion.
Abbreviations
BP - Bank Procedures
CEO - Chief Executive Officer
CPPI - Center for Project Preparation and Implementation
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



56
EA - Environmental Assessment
EDS - Environmental Data Sheet
EIA - Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP - Environmental Management Project, or Environmental Management Plan
FPTF - Forest Policy Task Force
FSPP - Forest Sector Policy Paper
FSS - Federal Forestry Service
GP - Good Practices
IASC - Inter-agency Supervisory Committee
IBRD - International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank)
IUCN - The World Conservation Union
MOE - Ministry of Economy
MOH - Ministry of Health
NGO - Non-governmental Organization
OD - Operational Directive
OP - Operational Policy
OVOS - Environmental Impact Assessment
PCD - Project Concept Document
PID - Project Information Document
RFFPR - Russian Federation Forest Policy Review
SCEP - State Committee of Environmental Protection
SEE - State Ecological Expertise
SFPP - Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
TOR - Terms of Reference
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



57
Annex 11 - Official Opinion of the State Ecological Expertise
of the State Committee for Environmental Protection of the Russian Federation
Translationfrom Russian
Mr. Evgeny P. Kuzmichev                               October 8, 1999
Deputy Chief                                          No. 62-13/17-201
Federal Forest Service of Russia
59/19, Pyatnitskaya, Moscow
Russian Federation
Subject: The State Ecological Expertiza of Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Documents
Dear Mr.Kuzmichev,
The State Committee for Environmental Protection of the Russian Federation has
considered your letter No.EK-1-8-8/441 of 09/17/99 requesting to carry out the
State Ecological Expertiza of the description of the Sustainable Forestry Pilot
Project and hereby informs you of the following.
The analysis of the submitted documents has shown that the description contains
a certain system of views of its developers on a range of issues related to the
forest policy reform in the Russian Federation, the list of goals, specific
activities proposed for finanicing by an IBRD loan, and the list of legal,
economic and social benefits expected to be achieved through implementation of
these activities.
The currently submitted description of the Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
does not constitute a subject for the State Ecological Expertiza. However,
further documentation detailing implementation of specific activities that can
have a potential impact on the natural environment will be subject to the State
Ecological Expertiza procedures pursuant to the provisions of Articles 11 and
12
of the Federal Law "On the Ecological Expertiza".
Best regards,
A. F. Poryadin,
First Deputy Chairman, State Committee for Environmental Protection of the
Russian Federation
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



58
COCYJAAPMEKHIJH IKONIHTET                       3aMT=OPYKOkOA*TWM
IEcaKxaor CPA                              1*A p&QG  nxfl"e10-
no oxAm omxFnoulz cprW                                   
138t P. M          roc. M   S.  x  4/6            EliTKy3wvuiisy
Tua4w 254=27-6   W:: 254.6L24
T'nasm i 2075S9 *BO0A
E-mal roru UKL=ahp:fwwwe.ocomru
113184, Mocsa, lmlnux
_2[ A9           M! j 6/z   1 / 21               Yz., A,5W19
Ha~______
o rOCyMwTeU*ok 3KOAoZWmxof
awePmv  xmw=A     flom ro
fpk  no ycToaOmy
YaKcw  EareHMf flXiouq!
rO     e_OMMOfu PocC*m pwcrcpn Ba&=  m.wo yr 17.099 MEK-1-8-&441 c
UpoczGoi o nponaum         yzrAWCTUMIIo Y=WriccKoI  W=qCpMX3i  IWUzCmW=
Vnc?zz poem no yc          WMaoby  :VOODDatO3     B COO6U=.
A b_ ep~~~~~W   xonm,wo} COXP=
OnPensIN"O CCrtMY 5rBIAOU ef PA PUOT'IKOB a P0*0np=o Pe4Op&MHPO"Ma
,=Mon nRwracm  Poccoaxcoil 41mpasUM. nepeeL a  R. Mtenu=x me"rp             i,
zIpAI&cMui z 4acpoSaMo 3a cetn S334 MEPP. g osqaeusA fph 8C pcueiCMs
p3ybamT   no npo6cmM upasoro, 3xo0M*[4cxoro g cO14MJIO    XqcapaL
KomX=m flunvmo  lpoeia mo ycrot'oY neco aoausg wJe nanBrR
roQypcT4afook 3)wnoJXqrofi :xcncpnmc  Ppapa6aramms a paUTm    wnenuiW
AoKYMeuU N2 PeMUM01a  MKpeuUh MepOnpsmnI, MorynwxX OwXan  WoAAeA
Ha O9YwAwfQyIO  pPO*YIo cpeAy. AoAWf 6Mm 11pe=C ma ai rocIyapcnesyx
3ICOfOWJKYtO 3ACPepTUy 3 CoTCTSM C boaw*s=fXMt  cmr&i 1I K  12 4"ecMzMo
3a am 406 3OnOrwlCxOR 3Xcnepnm.
IkpsMR 3aMecrEM  n, fpexes                                        A.4J1opWH
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



59
Annex 12 - Detailed Project Description (Final Version)
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Introduction
I.    The proposed project would have three main components: (A) support to sustainable
public sector forest management through policy reforms, improved forest land-use planning and
infornation management, improved forest protection, and improved regeneration; (B) support
through the regional administrations to improved forest industrial enterprise management through
training programs in improved forest harvesting and processing technologies, modem
management and business practices, and improved utilization of non-wood forest products; and
(C) support to project management and coordination, including implementation, procurement,
financial management and monitoring. Detailed projects cost estimates are provided in Annex 3
and in the Project Implementation Plan.
Component A: Strengthening Forest Management (US$ 43.5 million)
Background and Key Forest Policy Issues
2.      A number of policy actions in the Russian forest sector are required for the sector to
move towards financial and economic viability and social and environmental sustainability. They
include: (i) regional adaptation and implementation of forest laws and regulations; (ii) reform of
forest resource rent assessment and subsequent reform of forest industry taxation; (iii) reform of
forest management cost accounting and budgeting process; (iv) improved forest utilization
planning; (v) an improved system for forest leases, concessions and tenders; (vi) insurance of
private investors against non-commercial risks (fire insurance, political risk guarantees); (vii)
development of market incentives for voluntary forest certification.
3.      Some of them (such as forest industry taxation) are of macroeconomic nature and
cannot be addressed at a sector or project level. Others can be managed through investment
activities and are therefore in the focus of the proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project. Yet
others (such as political risk guarantees) are based on government actions supported by the Pilot
Project, but are formulated thorough a separate, private sector driven mechanism - the proposed
Forest Sector Partial-Risk Guarantee Facility that is being prepared in parallel with the Pilot
Project. A more detailed outline of the key issues is provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
Component Objectives and Expected Results
4.     Objectives. This Component will support forest policy improvements and sustainable
forest management practices in the three pilot regions of Leningrad Oblast, Krasnoyarsk Kray and
Khabarovsk Kray for development of new cost-effective models of forest management that are
transparent to forest users and local populations and are replicable in other regions. The reforms
would be extended to additional regions in the later years of the project implementation.
5.    Expected Results. The new forest management approaches would include the following
outputs over a four-year project period in the pilot regions: (a) customized regional forest use
regulations drafted and publicized, (b) new forest management financing systems tested; (c)
market-based certification schemes prepared; (d) pilot forest insurance implemented; (e)
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



60
attractive leasing mechanisms developed based on verifiable sustainable forest management; (f)
higher-capacity information systems designed and installed; (g) sustainable forest management
plans drafted, publicly discussed and accepted; (h) efficient fire and pest management systems in
place; and (i) cost-effective regeneration systems on burnt-over areas adopted.
Project Areas
6.     Thirty-two priority forest management districts covering about 22 million hectares in the
three pilot regions (from 14% of total forest area in Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk to 33% in
Leningrad) were designated as the project's focal areas. Project activities in improved forest
inventory and planning, integrated fire and pest management, and forest regeneration will be
undertaken there in a coordinated manner and will also support improved forest harvesting and
management practices under Component B. These priority areas are listed in Table I below and
are also shown by corresponding numbers on Maps IBRD 30244 (Leningrad), IBRD 30261
(Krasnoyarsk) and IBRD 30262 (Khabarovsk).
Table 1: Priority Areas in the Pilot Regions
LENINGRAD OBLAST             KRASNOYARSK KRAY              KHABAROVSK KRAY
Karelian Isthmus:            South:                        South:
1. Northwestem               1. Minusinsk                  1. Mukhen
2. Priozersk                 2. Irbeysky                   2. Sukpay
3. Roshchino                 3. Upper Mana                Center and East:
South:                       Center:                        3. Gursky
4. Lisino                    4. Tayezhinsky                4. Ulch
S. Luga                      5. Bolshemurtinsky            5. Nikolayevsk
6. Gatchina                  6. Usolsky                    6. Scverny
7. Kingisepp                Lower Anaara and North:        7. Vysokogomy
East:                         7. Teryansky                 Northwest:
8. Tikhvin                   8. Manzensky                  8. Evoron
9. Boksitogorsk              9. Gremuchinsky               9. Amgun
10. Volkhov                  10. Kodinsky                  10. Urgal
11. Kirovsk                  11. Lower Yenisey
Subcomponent A.1: Improvement of Forest Policy (US$4.0 milliond
7.       The project would support the Federal Governuent and regional administrations in
developing and testing, on a pilot basis, new or improved market-oriented regulations in forest
management and their regional implementation mechanisms stipulated in the Forest Code, to be
complemented by the proposed new federal legislation on forest utilization and other acts.
Specifically, it will assist with: (i) improved and more transparent forest lease regulations based
on sustainable forest management; (ii) regional adaptation of forest laws; (iii) improved forest
financing systems including better resource valuation and expenditure management; (iv) pilot
forest certification schemes; and (v) pilot forest fire insurance schemes. The project would
finance consultants' services, training and workshops. WWF, IUCN, and the US Governent are
All costs below are investment costs with contingencies.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



61
providing complementary assistance with forest certification, public involvement, and
development of regional forest codes, respectively.
Improved Policy and Regulatory Mechanisms for Forest Utilization (US$0.51 million)
8.      The project would finance international and national consultants' services, training,
workshops and publication costs towards development and testing of a suite of new federal and
regional regulations on forest lease, concession and auctions/tenders and drafting and submitting
of the new federal legislation on forest utilization. The following regulations would be drafted,
published, discussed and their implementation plans developed:
(a) For forest leases: (i) principles for transfer of forest leasing rights and their use as credit
collateral; (ii) principles of issuing guarantees to forest lease collateral holders (lien holders); (iii)
procedures and criteria for registration, licensing and certification of leaseholders; (iv) sample
forest management plans for leased forests; and (v) procedures for transfer of forest lease from
bankrupt leaseholders.
(b) For forest concessions: (i) procedures for execution and registration of forest
concession agreements; (ii) sample business and investment plans for concessions; (iii)
rules for plot allocation and assignment for particular uses; (iv) procedures for forest
production sharing; (v) forest fee calculation schedules and procedures for their
collection; and (vi) guidelines for maintenance and construction of forest roads and social
infrastructure.
(c) For forest auctions and tenders: (i) procedures for forest auctions; (ii) guidelines for
establishing forest auctions floor prices; and (iii) rules for plot allocation and assignment for
particular uses.
Regional Adaptation and Promotion of Forest Laws (US$0. 08 million)
9.      The work for the development of the regional forest law has already been completed in
Khabarovsk Kray (with the assistance from the USAID grants) and the law enacted. A draft
regional forest law has also been prepared and submitted to legislature in Leningrad Oblast.
Subsequent work will concentrate on development of regional regulations. In Krasnoyarsk Kray,
the work for the development of the regional forest law is only starting (also with support from
the USAID).
10.     Throughout the project implementation period, the FFS would work with its regional
branches to: (a) revise and publish the draft sample regional forest code; (b) undertake
nationwide consultations with regional administrations to develop region-specific adaptations of
implementing regulations; and (c) launch a publicity campaign to promote public awareness and
disseminate guidelines to investors for these regulations. The outcome would be the regional
forest codes and regulations drafted, harmonized with federal laws, and approved in at least three
pilot regions, and replication models available for 3 to 6 additional forest regions across Russia.
The project would finance workshop and publication costs. IUCN is expected to attract
additional donor resources to support public awareness and public involvement.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



62
Improved Forest Management Financing, Accounting and Strategic Planning Systems (US$2.47
million)
11.     The project would finance consultants' services and workshop and publication costs
towards development of improved federal and regional regulations on forest management
financing, cost accounting and planning, resource valuation, and economic criteria for forest
utilization planning. It will also provide training and basic computer equipment to build capacity
of strategic and financial planning units at the Ministry of Economy (Forest Sector Department),
Federal Forest Service's headquarters and three regional offices. The following regulations
would be drafted, published, discussed and their implementation plans developed in the three
pilot regions.
(a) For improved financial sustainability of forest management: (i) mechanisms for increased
forest revenues; (ii) rationalized and prioritized structure of forest management costs based on
regional features and long-term sustainable forestry development objectives; and (iii) mechanisms
for accumulation and re-investment of regional financial flows in forest management.
(b) For imDroved cost accounting and planning: (i) procedures for transparent regional systems
of forest management cost accounting which would be implemented on the basis of Forest
Management Information Systems under subcomponent A.2; (ii) revised regional norms of labor
and material unit costs for standard forest management activities;  (iii) methodology for
assessment of long-term efficiency of forest management operations in the pilot regions based on
the simulation of forest area dynamics; (iv) alternative scenarios of sustainable forest utilization
in the pilot regions within the recurrent cost constraints and their participatory analysis; and (v)
procedures for submission and approval of expenditure items of the regional forest budgets within
the adopted scenarios.
(c) For economic valuation of forest resources: development of new approaches for (i) revision
of stumpage assessments in the forest districts of the pilot regions under subcomponent A.2; (ii)
assessing stumpage based on market prices of processed timber products; (iii) establishing floor
prices for forest auctions, tenders and concessions.
(d)  For increased efficiency of forest utilization:  improved harvesting plans based on
maximization of forest revenue, to be piloted in several forest districts of the three pilot regions
on the basis of Forest Management Information Systems under subcomponent A.2.
Certification of Sustainable Forest Management and Use (US$0.44 million)
12.     The project would finance consultants' services, public awareness and study
tour costs to support the FFS Working Group of Forest Certification in the following
activities: (i) development of draft regulations and procedures of mandatory national
certification compatible with intemational practices and forest.product market trends; (ii)
training of trainers for key FFS regional and federal staff in application of new forest
certification procedures; (iii) establishment and testing of a public information system to
facilitate access to mandatory and voluntary forest certification guidelines in one region;
and (iv) promotion of market-based, third-party certification systems and facilitation of
partnerships between intemational buyers' groups and/or major consumers of forest
products and self-selected forest districts. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is
expected to support the implementation of pilot systems of voluntary forest certification
in the vicinity of one or two major timber harvesting and processing enterprises based in
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



63
Leningrad Oblast or another region in Northwestern Russia and possibly in Khabarovsk
Kray, with the project supporting the systems through targeted investments in
information technologies and forest management improvement in the relevant leskhozes.
Prototype Forest Insurance System (US$0.52 million)
13.     The project would support the costs of international and national consultants' services
and training towards the development and testing on a pilot basis of a viable system of forest
insurance against fire and pest damage. The activities would include: (i) development of
procedures for insurance of leased forests; (ii) establishment of a prototype database of forest fire
insurance in one of the three pilot regions; (iii) development of a sample insurance package
including a policy and insurance contract, a model payment and premium schedule; and (iv)
testing of prototype insurance procedures in self-selected forest districts of the pilot regions.
SubcomDonent A.2: Forest Management Information Systems and ImDroved Forest Use
Plannins (US$6.5 million)
14.     In order to enable fornulation of forest policy improvements under subcomponent A. I
and their practical implementation at the federal and regional levels, the project would support
improvements in forest information management and planning in the three pilot regions that
would: (i) develop better knowledge of the forest resource base at a lower unit cost and increase
overall cost-effectiveness of forest management and protection operations; and (ii) enable a more
accurate and market-driven valuation of forest resources.. A secondary outcome would be (iii)
the increased transparency of forest management planning and forest utilization, which in turn
would make the forest sector more attractive to investors.
15.     Under the project, improved forest information and land-use planning will be
supported, through provision of management informnation modules for (a) the three regional forest
committees, (b) the selected pilot forest districts, (c) the three regional forest inventory
organizations, (d) forest fire protection organizations, (e) forest pest protection organizations, and
(f) forestry research organizations. Improved information systems would also be supported at
federal level, to coordinate regional activities and facilitate transfer of experience across regions.
Activities would support better implementation of landscape and ecological planning, more
efficient targeting of forest protection, improved inventories, and transparency in financial and
natural resource utilization. Information would also be more easily accessible to the public. The
project would finance computer and inventory equipment, training, consultants' services, and
workshops.
Improved Federal Forest Information Management Infrastructure (US$2.04 million)
16.     At the federal level, the project would support harmonization of the national
forest resource database which would serve public and private sector decision-makers in
the market economy. A key issue for forest policy implementation is the development of
satisfactory standards for unification of forest management inventory, economic
valuation and cost-accounting software, databases and information flows between
different levels of forest resource management (district - regional - national).
17.     The following activities would be specifically supported by the project at the
federal level: (i) development of requirements for a Federal Forest Management
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



64
Information System; (ii) development of a module on forest regulations, forest inventory
and planning, forest fire and pest monitoring; (iii) development of a document tracking
and communication system within the FFS headquarters and expansion of this system
between FFS, its institutes, regional committees, district offices and nationwide
information networks; (iv) development of a forest management cost accounting
information support system to be followed by pilot implementation in the regions (see
next section).
Pilot Regional Forest Management Information Systems (US$4.46 million)
18.     Federal efforts would be complemented by activities in each of the three pilot
regions, to establish pilot Regional Forest Management Information Systems capable of
serving a variety of users and stakeholders, including government and research
organizations, local population, and the private forest users. Since regional conditions
vary and current progress with FMIS development is different in each region, the scope
of project support would also be different, as reflected in Table 2.
Table 2: New Forest Management Information Modules for the Pilot Regions
Modules                                 Leningrad    Krasnoyarsk   Khabarovsk
Regional Forest Committee                   1             1             1
Forest District (Leskhoz)                  11            11            10
Regional Forest Inventory Enterprise        1             1             1
Regional Aerial Forest Fire Protection Base  -            1             1
Regional Forest Pest Protection Center      -             I             -
Regional Forest Research Institute          1             1             1
Estimated Investment Costs (US$ million)   0.88          2.22          1.32
19.   These modules would also provide for agreed levels of public access to forest
information, so that any interested person or organization could become a subscriber to
the system and place queries to the server via electronic (Internet) access. Different types
of subscribers would have different, and agreed upon, modes of access (free of charge for
the state agencies, a nominal fee for other users). All regional modules will be
implemented during the 3rd and 4h years of Project implementation.
20.   The Leskhoz Modules are most important to forest users (for developing forest
management, protection and reforestation plans at a detailed level) and will be
implemented in the selected pilot leskhozes (in each region two in the 2nd year, four in the
3rd year and five in the 4th year) and will be preceded by the improved standard forest
inventory at the scale of 1:25,000. The standards of the improved inventory would be
developed and agreed by the FFS and the regions during the first year. Use of precision
instruments would improve the quality of surveying and data sampling for parameters
such as fire hazard assessment, game and non-wood forest products inventory. This
effort will be complemented by the on-going bilateral Russian-Finnish project to develop
biodiversity, recreational value, carbon balance, etc. forest inventory parameters in
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



65
Northwestern Russia. Technical assistance under the project would also test biodiversity
and carbon balance measurements as part of the verifiable forest inventory process. The
equipment would be provided to the Forest Inventory Enterprises, the Forest Fire Air
Bases, the Forest Protection Center and the regional Forest Committees during the I
through 3rd years, and to the pilot leskhozes during the 3 and 4th years.
Subcomponent A.3: Improved Re2ional Forest Fire and Pest Manazement Systems
(US$22.5 million)
21.     The project would support new, more cost-effective, approaches to forest fire and pest
management in the three pilot regions that would (i) provide basis for introduction of forest
insurance mechanisms (Al1.5); (ii) increase the value of standing timber and attractiveness of the
forest sector for long-term investors - both of commercial (lease/concession) and "carbon offset"
type; and (iii) prioritize and, in the long run, decrease public expenditures on forest resource
protection.
22.     Activities have been adapted to the requirements of each region. The focus for
all would be on prevention and early warning systems. For Khabarovsk, special focus of
project support would be on aerial and satellite monitoring and early detection, radio
communication and fire fighting units. For Krasnoyarsk, the project would support
development of ground-based detection in priority areas to supplement aerial detection,
on a rail-based unit for combating large fires, on inter-agency coordination and on pest
monitoring over 20 million ha. In Leningrad, the project support would be primarily for
fire monitoring from automated observation towers, and for mechanized fire retardant
units. In all three regions there would be public awareness campaigns, since 80% of fires
are caused by humans. In addition, support (about $65,000) would be provided to the
federal microbiological laboratory near Moscow for improved applications in forest pest
control. The project would finance equipment, training and consultancy services. It
would also build upon emergency forest pest management program supported by the
Bank in 1996 in Krasnoyarsk, on-going pilot work in fire monitoring supported by the
European Union (TACIS) in Irkutsk and Moscow, and in improved communications and
technical cooperation in Khabarovsk provided by the US Forest Service and USAID.
Forest Protection in Leningrad Oblast (US$6.76 million)
23.   This subcomponent was originally deemed relatively less important in terms of
the risk and spreading of forest fire and pest outbreaks and their impact on regional
harvesting volumes. However, the summer of 1999 has shown that this subcomponent is
urgent for the Oblast in terms of the potential damages uncontrolled forest fires could
cause both to the residents and to the dense infrastructure network. The activities
included in the Pilot Project for Leningrad Oblast will be centered around this aspect of
forest conservation and protection, aiming at future replication in other Russian forest
areas with a long-term utilization background. The key regional activities would include:
(i) Updating of the gound-based early fire detection system will be implemented in the
priority areas in the southern and eastem parts of the region, to complement the
operational network already in place in the Karelian Isthmus. This work will include
rebuilding of the 30 existing and construction of 50 new stationary fire.surveillance
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



66
towers and purchase of 12 mobile surveillance masts. Tower construction and erection
activities will be started in the second half of the 2nd year, starting with the 11 pilot
leskh- zes.  Implementation of this system  would serve to improve reliability and
precision of early forest fire detection throughout the region.
(ii) The inter-district mobile, mechanized units for combating forest fires will be
equipped with the necessary sets of fire-fighting equipment, with the staff trained to be
aware of the rules and practices of combating large-scale forest fires. This assistance will
be provided to 4 most fire-prone leskhozes in the south and east of the region. The
procurement is planned for the 2nd and 3rd years of the Project.
(iii) The regional forest pathology service will also be strengthened and a forest fire and
pest public awareness campaign planned to prevent forest fires. The latter will include
establishment of parking lots in the focal areas of the residents' recreational activities, TV
and radio spots, school curricula and workshops, publication of leaflets, brochures and
other printed materials, and equipment of posters etc. in the critically affected forests.
Forest Protection in Krasnoyarsk Kray (US$5.94 million)
24.   This subcomponent is extremely important in the Kray because of high incidence
of catastrophic forest fires and pest outbreaks. The key regional activities under the
project would include:
(i) development of the regional forest fire and Rest management strategy, including
revision of fire and pest procedures and regulations;
(ii) A system of ground-based fire detection would be designed and equipped in the
priority zone of 600 thousand hectares as a cost-effective supplement to the overburdened
aerial fire detection system. This system will be based on effective use of radio
communications and teledetection equipment distributed on about 200 elevated points.
The equipment for the majority of the observation points will be installed in years 2 and 3
and necessary training to leskhoz staff will be provided by the supplier.
(iii) A network of 150 permanent forest pest monitoring sites will be designed and
established in the priority zone covering 11 million hectares. Initial field, navigation and
transport equipment will be provided to the Kray Forest Protection Center to delineate
and establish this network over the 4 years of the project. Upon establishment, these
monitoring sites will be transferred to leskhozes for maintenance and information
collection.
(iv) A mobile, rail-based, mechanized unit for combating large forest fires will be
equipped with about 20 units of heavy equipment which will be stationed in hangars near
the rail siding at the Minino Experimental Leskhoz and its 50 staff will be trained by the
equipment supplier. Technical assistance will be procured to develop interagency
procedures for extinguishing large forest fires. This unit will provided increased
coverage of the area against catastrophic forest fires in tie Kray.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



67
(v) A fire management training facility will be established and equipped on the basis of
the existing fire retardant station at the Bolshemurtinsky Leskhoz.  It will offer
mandatory training in new and improved fire management techniques, including fire
prevention and prescribed burning, to leskhoz staff in all leskhozes of the Kray, 400 fire
jumpers of the Fire Air Base and to about 300 fire units of the forest user enterprises.
The facility will be equipped with the standard improved set of fire equipment for a pilot
leskhoz, plus demonstration units of heavy equipment from the mobile unit, and
instructional facilities. In years 3 and 4 of the project, after the improved techniques are
sufficiently tested and a critical number of leskhoz staff are trained, similar standard sets
of equipment will be provided to the II pilot leskhozes, so that the new techniques can be
applied in various operational settings. The benefits will be an estimated five-fold
increase in efficiency and safety of fire fighting and post-fire management operations
directly applied over the territory of I I million hectares of the pilot leskhozes. Staff from
neighboring regions will also be invited for training facility, eventually making it an
interregional fire technology training hub.
(vi) An intensive program of forest pest management training will be organized and
delivered by the regional Forest Protection Center during years 1 through 4 of the project
for about 240 staff of leskhoz level (all kray and neighboring regions) and for about 80
top managers of the regional forest committees (for 25 regions in Siberia and the Far
East). Specialized training equipment and materials will be procured for the Forest
Protection Center to support these courses. These activities would be closely coordinated
with the federal forest pest protection laboratory near Moscow also supported by the
project.
(vii) A forest fire and pest public awareness campaign would be one of the most cost-
effective elements of the improved forest fire and pest management system. It would be
targeted at the 10 pilot leskhozes as well at the key population centers of the Kray. It
would include TV and radio spots, school curricula and workshops, publication of
leaflets, brochures and other printed materials, and equipment of posters etc. in the
critically affected forests. The USAID is expected to contribute to this subcomponent
with grant funds (to be confirmed).
Forest Protection in Khabarovsk Kray (US$9.18 million)
25.   The project support in this Kray, which was most heavily affected by recent
catastrophic forest fires with significant direct losses to the economy, would be targeted
at the establishment of a potent and cost-effective forest fire detection and prevention
system. The key regional activities under the project would include:
(i) Implementation of a region-wide satellite forest fire monitoring svstem will be carried out by
providing targeted assistance to the regional Aerial Forest Fire Protection Base in conjunction
with related Management Information Module activities under subcomponent A.2 (see above).
The key elements of the system, including GPS equipment and necessary software and training
would be provided during the 3rd year of the project - after the completion of the Kray-wide fire
management GIS (also done under subcomponent A.2).
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



68
(ii) Establishment of 12 mobile mechanized fire fighting units in the most fire-prone areas will be
supported through provision of equipment and training to the 10 priority leskhozes.  The
justification for this public investment is that such units would provide an effective fire
management tool to protect valuable forests from major fires during the next 5-7 year period
when most forest harvesting companies are weak and cannot effectively undertake this function.
With the development of long-term lease agreements and strengthening of the forest industry this
function would be gradually transferred to the users themselves. The equipment would be
purchased and installed over a 24-month period starting from the middle of the 1 st year.
(iii) An integrated inter-agency svstem of radio communications would be designed with the
assistance provided to one priority leskhoz and an adjacent protected area by the US Forest
Service and USAID (through WWF) even before the project is launched. The project will equip
the remaining leskhozes in the priority areas with the necessary radio equipment and train their
staff. The main benefit would be improved coordination of limited fire fighting resources among
FFS and other regional agencies in the Kray.
(iv) A public awareness campaign would be one of the most cost-effective elements of the
improved forest fire management system because up to 80% of all fires are caused by people. It
would be targeted at priority leskhozes as well at the key population centers. It would include TV
and radio spots, school curricula and workshops, publication of leaflets, brochures and other
printed materials, and equipment of posters etc. in the critically affected forests. WWF is
expected to contribute with complementary grant funds from the USAID and other sources.
Subcomponent A4: Improved Regional Forest Regeneration Systems (US$7.4 million)
26.     The project would support minimum critical investment in the three pilot regions to
help convert their seed and seedling production and nursery operations into financially
autonomous operations which are demand-oriented and capable of servicing the growing needs of
long-term forest users.. The project would finance the costs of equipment, training and civil
works for improved forest regeneration practices in Khabarovsk and Leningrad, using innovative
containerized seedling technologies adapted to boreal forest ecosystems. In Khabarovsk, the
focus would also be on regeneration of the areas devastated by the catastrophic 1998 forest fires.
In Krasnoyarsk, forest regeneration activities supported by he project would be integrated into the
forest protection system at the pilot leskhoz level.
Forest Regeneration in Leningrad Oblast (USS4.0 million)
27.     The project will finance turnkey delivery of equipment and personnel training for three
containerized seedling production nurseries (Gatchina, Tikhvin, and Lisino). This public
investment will serve to develop a cost-effective reforestation model yielding improved seedlings
with a higher survival rate from the start of its operation. Reforestation would gradually progress
to become a profitable business serving forest lease holders.
Forest Regeneration in Krasnoyarsk Kray (US$0.83 million)
28.   The project will finance additional equipment (tractors, stump pullers, ploughs, etc.) for
II priority leskhozes to undertake assisted natural regeneration as an integral part of the improved
forest fire and pest protection strategy (see subcomponent A.3) which will be tested in these pilot
leskhozes and subsequently implemented region-wide.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



69
Forest Regeneration in Khabarovsk Kray (US$3.87 million)
29.   The project will finance equipment of 9 mechanized units for assisted natural
regeneration in the most critically burnt areas of forests surrounding the priority leskhozes in the
North-East, East and Central project areas. The benefit of this activity over the project life (years
2 through 4) would be improved regeneration and protection of about 400 thousand ha of forest
areas that had been irreversibly deforested by recent catastrophic fires.
30.     The second element will be the provision of equipment and training to two nurseries
(Nekrasovsky and Gursky) for production of closed-root seedlings. This investment would
initially provide more reliable seedling material with high survival rates, for reforestation of fire
damaged areas. It would eventually operate on a cost-recovery basis servicing the needs of forest
leaseholders.
Subcomponent A.5: Replication of Policy and Management Reform (US$3.1 millionj
31.    The project would finance workshops to share and disseminate the results achieved in the
pilot regions and would support replication of forest policy reform and forest management
infornation activities. Depending on project progress, it would support, from Year 3, technical
assistance in policy reform activities (see subcomponent A.1) and technical assistance and
equipment for improved forest information and land-use planning (see subcomponent A.2) in a
limited number of additional regions. These would be identified during review of early project
implementation and selected on the basis of the size and importance of their forest resources and
the level of commitment to policy and management reforms in accordance with the overall
Project objectives.
Component B: Support to Improved Regional Forest Enterprise Management
(US$ 27.9 million)
Introduction
Subcomponent B.1: Technical and Manaeement Trainine: Forest Enterprises
1. The overall objective is to improve the environment for private sector investment through
addressing the issue of insufficiently qualified manpower, one of the main constraints identified
by potential investors. The project would support training in modern management and
professional practices in forest industrial enterprises.  Training would be provided to forest
enterprise staff, including class-room training by regional educational institutes, and practical
training in selected pilot enterprises. Topics would include improved harvesting, modem
management and business practices supported by appropriate technologies; and improved
harvesting, production and marketing of non-timber forest products, with technical assistance
and appropriate technologies.
2. Training would be demand-driven and provided on a cost recovery basis, with qualified
trainees selected by forest enterprise management. The pilot, or "learning by doing" nature of all
these activities will be emphasized. A similar approach will be adopted in each region, but with
modifications based on the variation of natural and socio-economic conditions. A detailed
background description of forest industries in each region, together with a more detailed
description of the component activities, is provided in the PIP.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



70
Subcomponent B.2: Non-Wood Forest Product Development
3. Non-wood forest products play an important role in the livelihood of rural communities in
Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk. Within a framework of sustainable resource management, this
component would provide training and demonstration in improved harvesting, processing and
marketing of non-timber forest products in these two regions. Training would be organized along
similar lines to training for timber products, with class-room training provided in existing
institutes, practical training provided in selected pilot enterprises, and equipment provided for
demonstration and training purposes.
4. Component B activities are here described for each region separately, since each will be the
subject of a separate sub-loan agreement. Furthermore each will be implemented separately, by
the respective regional administrations, though with support from the Project Management Unit,
the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring.
Component B: Leningrad Oblast (US$ 9.3 million)
5. More than 70% of wood exports from the region are to Western Europe, countries which
demand increasingly high standards regarding environmentally sustainable forest harvesting and
processing methods. The project would support training in ecologically sustainable forest
utilization, management and export marketing, through:
(a)   Training  in forestry and wood industries, emphasizing forest products'
marketing, management and business skills, harvesting and wood processing
technologies, and forest certification and chain-of-custody approaches to
penetrate international western markets; and
(b)   Provision of technology and equipment for training purposes, including a saw
milling line with drying capacity attached to a pilot enterprise where practical
training would be carried out, aimed at demonstrating the potential for adding
value to the production process, utilizing the wood wastes for energy, and
diminishing the environmental impacts of wood processing.
6. Training would include the whole production chain, including:
*  business skills including business economics, management, accounting, marketing,
banking and finance, negotiations, products and service development;
*  technical skills in forestry, specifically forest management and certification,
harvesting, conservation of forest ecosystems and bio-diversity, regeneration and
management planning;
*  technical skills in timber processing including saw milling and panel manufacturing,
packaging, joinery and furniture manufacture;
*  market research, marketing and chain of custody analysis: and,
*  supportive subjects including foreign technical terms, wood technology, quality
control and repair and maintenance.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



71
7. The objective would be to change forest management and processing from a focus on
maximizing production to market orientation. For example, training in the chain-of-custody
approach is an efficient measure to penetrate major international markets in Western Europe and
to develop forest certification (supported under Component A).
8. Technical assistance would be provided in training of trainers. In support to-this training of
trainers, detailed training plans and curricula would be prepared on the basis of a training needs
assessment, to be carried out at the start of implementation.. The training plan would comprise
tailor-made modules for different target groups. About 300 people would be trained annually
after an initial start-up period in years I and 2.
9. Classroom training would be organized at the St. Petersburg Forest Technical Academy, with
the participation of the Lisino Forestry College and Mesenski Forestry School. Practical training
would be carried out in a pilot enterprise to be selected on the following criteria: submission of an
adequate business plan demonstrating economic viability in the long term, willingness to invest in
the plant site and add additional production lines, willingness to act as a training oriented
enterprise in collaboration with the existing educational institutes and other  regional
stakeholders, and a willingness to commit to addressing the skill gaps of employees at all
levels. The pilot enterprise would act also as a training center for enterprises in other
northwestern regions of Russia.
10. The pilot enterprise will be located close to the existing educational institutes, which would
act as focal points for classroom training. Equipment provided for training would focus on
modern, environmentally-friendly saw milling technologies.
I1. Technical supervision and coordination of the component would be with the Forest Industrial
Timber Committee. Equipment purchased for harvesting and processing would be the property of
the State Property management committee and would be leased to the pilot enterprise. Leasing
contracts would be commercially based and would cover equipment depreciation and interest.
Training would be paid for by the participating enterprises. The regional administration would
have overall responsibility for project loan repayment in the Leningrad Oblast.
Component B: Krasnoyarsk Kray (USS7.07 million)
12. Krasnoyarsk has the largest forest resource of any region in Russia. Timber and non-wood
forest products play an important role in growth in the region. Exports were previously to Central
Asia, but with the economic decline in these newly independent countries, and phasing out of
transport subsidies, export of low value, bulky round-and sawn wood has faced increasing
difficulties. The project would assist the industry with acquiring the necessary business and
technical skills to add value to processing, and to adapt to and expand in new export markets
including China and the Far East.
13. The project would provide training and support for:
*      sustainable  forest management  and  certification,  environmentally-sensitive
harvesting,   conservation of bio-diversity, regeneration and  landscape ecological
management planning;
improved, more environmentally-friendly processing technologies including saw
milling and panel manufacture, packaging, joinery and furniture manufacture;
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



72
*     training and demonstration in forest harvesting and processing technologies;
*     training and demonstration in improved non-wood forest products harvesting,
processing and marketing; and
*   *  support to development of business and marketing plans, for timber and non-wood
forest enterprises.
14. The project would also provide training in supportive subjects including foreign technical
language, wood technology, quality control and repair and maintenance.
15. The objective, as in Leningrad, would be to change management, production and processing
from a focus on production to market orientation. The non-wood forest products training
activities have in addition a social element; the communities most dependent on income from
non-wood forest products are generally the poorest rural communities of the province, and the
system of organization for non-wood forest products processing and marketing has broken down
since the end of the Soviet system.
16. Detailed training plans and curricula would be prepared on the basis of a needs' assessment,
to be carried out at the beginning of the project. The training plan would comprise tailor-made
modules for different target groups. It is estimated that, after the first year and a half, training
could be provided for about 110 higher level staff and 140 vocational level staff annually for
forest utilization and business methods, and up to 110 people annually in improved utilization of
non-wood forest products. Costs are estimated at US$ 5.16 million for the timber component,
and US$ 1.91 million for the non-timber product component.
17. Training would be coordinated by existing educational establishments, specifically the
Siberian State Technological University and its field stations (one of which includes the
Predivinskiy Lespromkhoz), Forestry Colleges in Divnogorsk, Kansk, Krasnoyarsk, Morozov
Investment Center and the Sukachev Forest Research Institute. Practical training would be
provided in three pilot enterprises which have been selected according to criteria including
existence of viable business plans, ownership structure, commitment to act as a pilot for training
on a cost-recovery basis within the project, and commitment to development of the whole
production chain. These enterprises also represent different social and economic conditions
within the region. They are located in lezkhozes which will be a focus of improved forest
management activities under component A. The enterprises are indicted on the attached map
30261 and described in more detail in the PIP. They include:
(i)   Ilinskiy Lespromkhoz in Birilusskiy district 200 km north west of Krasnoyarsk
city, with a capacity of harvesting of 150,000 m3, a present harvest of 60,000 m3
and about 600 employees. This enterprise currently focuses on harvesting and saw
milling. Production is recovering as exports to China have started; and
(ii)   Shiverskiy Lespromkhoz in Boguchanskiy district 600 km  north-east of
Krasnoyarsk city, employs about 540 people and focuses on harvesting, with some
saw milling. Current production is 200,000 m3 but the enterprise has a capacity of
400,000 m3. Half the volume harvested is exported, mostly to central Europe, after
processing at another enterprise.
(iii)   Predivinskiy Lespromkhoz 140 km north of Krasnoyarsk city, with a capacity of
harvesting of 750,000 m3 and for sawnwood production of 100,000 m3. It employs
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



73
1055 people and it is the focal point for the Siberian State Technological University
in practical training in forest harvesting and wood processing.
18. Two pilot enterprises and two regional associations dealing with non-timber forest products
(berries, mushrooms, honey, cedar nuts and oils) have been selected using criteria similar to that
for timber enterprises (see PIP for details).
19. Equipment to be provided to the pilot wood processing enterprises would include harvesting
and  milling equipment, to be used for training and demonstration in improved, more
environmentally- friendly approaches to wood utilization. Equipment to be provided to the non-
timber forest products enterprises would include harvesting, processing and packaging
equipment.
20. The regional administration would have responsibility for project loans repayment in
Krasnoyarsk Kray. Technical supervision and coordination of the component would be with the
Committee for Forest Industries. Equipment would be the property of the State Property
Management Committee and would be leased to the pilot enterprises. Leasing contracts would be
commercially based and account for depreciation and interest payments. Training would be paid
for by the participating enterprises.
Component B: Khabarovsk Kray (US$ 12.6 million)
21. The region exports a substantial proportion of its harvest, mostly round-wood, to Japan.
There is potential for increasing exports to other far eastern markets such as China, and increasing
value-added from timber processing. The project would support:
(i)    Training in improved technologies and business practices for timber industries;
(ii)    Training in improved harvesting, utilization and marketing of non-wood forest
products.
22. Specifically the project would provide training in:
(i)    business skills including  business economics, management, accounting,
marketing, banking and finance, negotiations, products and service development for
the main production chains;
(ii)   technical skills in forestry, specifically forest management and certification,
harvesting, conservation of forest ecosystems and bio-diversity, regeneration and
forest management planning, and improved forest road maintenance;
(iii)  skills in modem wood processing including saw-milling and panel manufacture,
packaging, joinery and furniture manufacture;
(iv)   market research, marketing and chain of custody analysis;
(v)    supportive subjects including international terminology, wood technology,
quality control, repair and maintenance, mathematics and statistics and basic
environmental studies.
(vi)   training in utilization of non-wood forest products including harvesting and
processing for products, including berries, mushrooms, honey, upland fem, cedar nuts etc.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



74
23. The objective would be to change management, production and processing from a focus on
production to a market orientation. The non-wood forest products training activities have in
addition a social element; the communities most dependent on income from non-wood forest
products are generally the poorest rural communities of the province, and the system of
organization for non-wood forest products processing and marketing has broken down since the
end of the Soviet system.
24. Technical assistance would be provided for training of trainers in the areas outlines above.
The educational modules will be tailor-made to various target groups to be trained. Training
would be based on an educational plan and training needs' assessment. It is estimated that after
the first year about 120 higher level staff and 130 vocational level staff would be trained annually
in timber activities. For non-timber activities, a limited number of managers and experts would
be trained, but up to 110 people annually would be trained in short term courses in modem
improved harvesting and processing methods. Costs are estimated at US$ 11.5 million for the
timber and US$ 1.07 million for the non-timber activities.
25. Training would coordinated through the Khabarovsk State Technical University, which
would also carry out classroom training with its affiliated institutes. Practical training would be
carried out in selected pilot enterprises. Selection criteria have included the existence of viable
business plans, ownership criteria, a commitment to act as pilots for training purposes for all level
employees on a cost-recovery basis, to develop integrated production chains, and sensitivity
towards the needs of rural population and communities.
The enterprises are indicated on map 30262 and include:
(i)    For timber, the Sredneamgun Lespromkhoz, located 600 km north-east of
Khabarovsk, with 317 employees and a present production of 68,000 m3 of logs
compared with an annual allowable cut of 290,000m3. The second enterprise, still to
be confirmed, is the Mukhenski lespromkhoz, 150 kms south-east of Khabarovsk;
(ii)   For non-wood forest products, the pilot enterprises include the Forest Products
enterprise (17 full-time plus 1500 part time employees); the Nanny regional
consumer society (41 fulltime plus 200 seasonal employees), the Fauna enterprise
(20 full time plus 300 seasonal employees); the Amur Pivo enterprise (5 fulltime plus
100 part time employees), and the Sovgavan enterprise (54 fulltime staff). These
enterprises produce berries, juices, ferns, honey, and mushrooms. The enterprises are
supported by a local NGO, the Far East Association for Non-Timber Forest products,
which would help to coordinate training programs.
26. The project would provide specialized modern equipment for training and demonstration
purposes for milling of timber and for packing, processing, and storage of non-timber forest
products.
27. The regional administrations would have overall responsibility for loan repayment; Technical
supervision and coordination of the component would be with the Committee for Economy.
Theoretical training would be organized through the Khabarovsk State Technical University,
with participation by several other institutes. Equipment purchased for harvesting and processing
would be the property of the State Property management committee and would be leased to the
pilot enterprises. Leasing contracts would be commercially based and would cover depreciation
and interest. Training would be paid for by the participating enterprises.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



75
Component C: Project Management and Coordination Services (USS 2.9 million)
1. The project would finance incremental project activities at an existing project management
unit, the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER). The FER would provide project
management and coordination services to the Federal Forest Service and regional administrations.
The FER   has substantial experience in managing other World Bank financed projects.
Procurement and financial management capacity assessments of the FER have been carried out
and it has been confirmed that the organization is qualified to provide these services.
2. As indicated in Section C. 4 of the main text, the FER would assist the Federal Forest
Service, Regional Forest Committees and Regional Administrations with preparation of bidding
documents for procurement of all goods and services, with contract award procedures, and with
administrative procedures for delivery of goods. It would make all payments on behalf of FFS
and the Regional Administrations and would manage all project-related expenditures and the
Special Account. It would organize the annual audit of project expenditures. FER would have
overall responsibility for project implementation reporting, monitoring and evaluation. It would
also be the Secretariat of the inter-ministerial steering committee and would highlight
implementation issues and propose solutions. It would also, together with the implementing
agencies, seek to ensure rapid cross-regional transfer of project experience and lessons learned.
3. To complement the existing FER team, specialized mostly in financial management, financial
analysis, procurement, and general project management and monitoring, the project would
finance the services, full time, of two project officers, one technical adviser, one procurement
specialist and one secretary/ translator. In order to benefit from the broader support and
supervision that FER as an institution can provide, the project would also finance one-fifth of the
overall budget of FER; they are currently responsible for implementation of five World Bank
financed projects.
The project would also finance short-term consultancy services to assist with review and drafting
of technical specifications for procurement of particular goods and services, and to assist with in-
depth project implementation reviews.
Russian Federation: Proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report



