Report No. PID6547
Project Name                     Russia-Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project (@+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Forestry
Project ID                       RUPE53830
Borrower                         Russian Federation
Implementing Agencies            Federal Forest Service, Moscow
Regional Administrations
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring,
Moscow
(see contact names at end of document)
Environment Category             B
Date this PID approved           September 17 1999
Date initial PID prepared        May 10,1998
Projected Appraisal Date         September 26,1999
Projected Board Date             December 15, 1999
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
Russia has the largest forest resource of any country, comprising 22 percent
of world forest area, or 764 million ha (an area fifteen times the size of
France). Russian forests account for 21 percent of the world's standing
timber volume and provide the largest land-based carbon storage in the world.
In 1990, forests and forest products account for 3 percent of GDP, 5 percent
of industrial output and 9 percent of employment. Much of the resource is
located in remote areas with slow biological growth and fragile environments,
especially in Siberia and the Far East. Russia's forests contain unique
biodiversity; 85 percent of the 605 million ha east of the Urals are covered
with closed-stand forests, much of it still unaffected by industrial
harvesting.
Russia is a recognized leader in many areas of conservation, research and
development. The Federal Forest Service has overall responsibility for
forest management in Russia. It has a well established federal, regional and
local structure and over 200 years experience in forest management. There
are also regional agencies for specialized areas of forest management,
including inventory, pest and fire management. Russia also has a well
established forest industry, although some of the technologies, especially in
pulp and paper manufacture were recognized as environmentally damaging and
inefficient even before 1990.
The Federal Forest Service, Ministry of Economy and Regional Administrations
have been working on reform of the sector for several years. Central
planning policies led to management practices which could not be sustained
with the introduction of a market economy. As a result, many wood-based
industries are now isolated from economically accessible forests and overall
roundwood harvesting levels have fallen dramatically. This has brought
economic and social hardship and increased pressure for utilization of the



more accessible forests which are cheaper to exploit. In addition,
harvesting practices including clear-cutting over blocks of 1,000 ha or more
have led to soil erosion and loss of biodiversity.
The sector has been affected by the economic downturn and confusion
surrounding the transition. Harvesting levels have declined drastically as
domestic demand for wood products has fallen, from 300 million m3 in 1989-90
to 80 million m3 in 1997. Output from wood industries has also fallen
dramatically, especially in the pulp and paper sub-sectors. While data are
unreliable, harvesting of non-wood forest products by local communities has
increased during the period.
Forest industrial enterprises can be divided into two groups: logging
enterprises, usually in small communities of 5,000 to 10,000 people which are
directly dependent on the enterprise for their existence; and processing
enterprises, in larger settlements, but also directly or indirectly dependent
on the industry for their economic life.     Most have now been privatized but
are facing severe financial difficulties. Some have the potential to be
viable, with restructuring and new investment; others are poorly located and
are unlikely to be viable under market conditions.
2.      Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project
The World Bank completed the Russian Forest Policy Review (Report No. 16222-
RU, December 1996) whose conclusions were endorsed by the Russian Government.
This study, and further analytical work undertaken by the Russian authorities
since, identify several key constraints to recovery of the sector. These
include issues of (a) financial viability of forest management; (ii)
further development of the regulatory framework, including clarifications on
leasing; (iii) improvement of forest management and ecosystem planning;
(iv) forest fire and pest protection; (v) approaches to regeneration; and
(vi) the need to upgrade technical and management skills in forest
industries.
Implementing improved forest management practices throughout Russia's vast
forest area will take many years. In order to achieve results on the ground
over a three to five year period it was decided to limit interventions
initially to three representative pilot regions. Provision has also been made
to support improved forest management in additional regions, should initial
progress with implementation so warrant. The three regions summarized below
were selected because they are representative of Russian ecosystems, and of
the different problems faced by the forest sector in the transition. In all
three regions forestry has the potential to contribute significantly to
economic recovery. The regions also face different problems in penetrating
international markets, which can provide lessons for other regions. The
pilot regions are:
(i)     Leningrad Oblast in European Russia, with a population of 1.7
million and a forested area of 4.8 million ha, and a mixture of conifer (pine
and spruce) and deciduous (birch) species. Most of the area has been
harvested and reforested. Main issues are protection and sustainable
management of forest areas of high economic and social value. The region is
located close to regional markets and exports of roundwood to Western Europe
were about 1 million tons in 1997; production of industrial roundwood has
fallen from 7.2 million m3 in 1990 to 1.6 million m3 in 1997, but has now
begun to recover The forest resource, if well managed, has the potential to
recover and to contribute substantially to the economic recovery of the
region.
-2-



(ii)    Krasnoyarsk Kray in Central Siberia, with a population of 3.1
million and a forested area of 116.7 million ha and a varied species
composition, including pine, Siberan pine (cedar), spruce, fir, larch, birch
and aspen. Main issues are forest fire and pest control, and poverty
alleviation in remote forest communities. Krasnoyarsk has one of the largest
forest resources of any region in Russia, comprising 49 million ha.
Harvested wood was 6 million m3 in 1997 compared with 25 million m3 in 1988;
especially difficult has been the decline of regional markets in Central
Asia, and Krasnoyarsk's location, far from alternative markets, and
difficulties with adapting to their new conditions
(iii)   Khabarovsk Kray in the Far East, with a population of 1.9
million and a forested area of 49.4 million ha and climax species including
spruce, pine, fir, Korean pine (cedar), larch, and birch. The main issues
are fire protection, forest regeneration of burned over areas, protection of
unique biodiversity values, including the Amur tiger; development of wood and
non-wood rural industries and social issues in remote forest communities.
Khabarovsk suffered a catastrophic forest fire in 1998, affecting 1.6 million
ha and has suffered both from the transition and from the economic downturn
in East Asia, its major market. Harvested wood was 4 million m3 in 1997, 28
percent of 1988 levels; 90 percent of wood harvested is exported, mostly as
logs to Japan and pulpwood to Japan and Korea. Forestry has the potential to
make a substantial contribution to regional economic recovery. Increasing
value added is key to success.
3.      Project Objectives
The project development objectives are:
Improved public sector management of Russia's forests, a key natural resource
in three pilot regions through policy reform, improved land-use management,
protection and regeneration.
An improved enabling environment for private sector investment in forest
utilization through training in processing and business practices and
demonstration in improved technologies.
Replication of the reforms to other regions
4.      Project Description
The project would have three principal components:
(A)     Support to  sustainable   public sector  forest management through policy
reforms, improved forest land-use planning and information management,
improved forest protection, and improved regeneration;
(B)     Support through the regional administrations to forest industrial
enterprise restructuring through training programs in improved forest
harvesting and processing technologies, modern management and business
practices, and improved utilization of non-timber forest products;
(C)     Support to project management and coordination, including
implementation, procurement, financial management and monitoring.
Activities would be carried out initially in Khabarovsk. Krasnoyarsk and
Leningrad regions, and then in a limited number of additional regions,
depending on initial progress. There would also be support to the Federal
Forest Service. Components A and C would be financed through the federal
budget, while component B would be financed through sub-loan agreements
between the Federal Government and the regional administrations.
- 3 -



TABLE AVAILABLE AT THE INFOSHOP
5.      Project Costs
Project costs are indicated in Table 1 above and are estimated at US$ 73
millions, including price and physical contingencies.
6.      Detailed Description
Component A. Support to sustainable public sector forest management
The project would support:
Development, and regional testing, of improved, market-oriented, forest
policies and regulations, through: (a) development of regional forest
regulations, (b) improved and more transparent forest lease and concession
regulations based on sustainable forest management; (c) improved forest
financing systems including better resource valuation, forest resource taxes
and public expenditure management, (d) forest certification schemes, and (e)
forest fire insurance mechanisms (see Section 2 on key policy reforms below).
The project would finance consultancy services, training, workshops, and some
equipment. WWF and the US government are providing complementary assistance
with certification and development of regional forest codes.
Improved forest information and land-use planning, through management
modules provided for (a) the three regional forest committees, (b) the
forest districts, (c) the regional forest inventory organizations, (d) fire
and (e) pest protection organizations. Improved information systems would
also be supported at federal level, to coordinate regional activities and
facilitate transfer of experience across regions.    Activities would support
better implementation of landscape and ecological planning, more efficient
targeting of forest protection, improved inventories, and transparency in
financial and natural resource utilization.    Information would also be made
more easily accessible to the public.
Improved fire and pest management, through approaches adapted to the
requirements of each region. The focus for all would be on prevention and
early warning systems. In Khabarovsk the focus would be on aerial and
satellite monitoring and early detection, radio communication and fire
fighting units. In Krasnoyarsk the focus would be on ground-based detection
in priority areas to supplement aerial detection, on a rail-based unit for
combating large fires, on coordination and pest monitoring over 20 million
ha. In Leningrad the focus would be on monitoring from watchtowers, and on
fire management. In all three regions there would be public awareness
campaigns, since 80t of fires are caused by humans. The work    would  build on
activities supported by the European Union in the Lake Baikal and Moscow
areas, and in improved communications and technical cooperation in eastern
Russia provided by the US Forest Service.
Improved regeneration, again through utilization of innovative containerized
seedling technology adapted to boreal forest ecosystems, and piloted in
Khabarovask (with the US Forest Service) and in Leningrad (with Finnish
assistance). In Khabarovsk the focus would be on regeneration of the areas
devastated by the catastrophic 1998 forest fires
Replication of policy and management reform to other regions; the project
-4 -



would support workshops to share the results achieved and lessons learned in
the pilot regions. Depending on project progress, it would also support, from
year three, policy reform and improved forest information and land-use
planning, in a limited number of other regions. These would be identified
during review of project implementation. (US$ 2.45 million).
In order to assure "monitorable" results on the ground activities would be
focused on 8 to 10 priority lezkhoses in each region, which have already
been selected.
Component B. Support to regional forest enterprise restructuring
The project would provide theoretical and practical training to forest
enterprise staff, both in regional academic institutions, and in selected
forest enterprises, through short training courses using a modular approach.
Training would be in the following areas: business skills including
management, accounting, marketing, negotiations, banking and finance; product
and service development; forestry, including biodiversity, silviculture,
management, harvesting, road construction and forest economics; primary
processing including saw-milling; secondary processing; wood preservation,
use of by-products; chain of custody analysis and certification; and
supportive subjects. A training needs assessment, likely to be funded on a
grant basis in the next few months, would permit detailed design of training
programs and curricula.
Training would be coordinated in each region by existing academic
institutions, including the Khabarovsk State Technological University, the
Siberian State Technological University (in Krasnoyarsk) and the St.
Petersburg Forest Technical Academy in Leningrad Practical training would be
provided on equipment rented to pilot forest enterprises which would also
serve as models. These would be located in the forest districts supported
through component A to demonstrate the benefits of improved forest
management and utilization.
The project would also support piloting and training in improved technologies
for utilization of non-timber forest products, including processing of
berries, mushrooms, honey, cedar nuts and pine resin. Pilot enterprises have
been selected in Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk. This activity would not be
supported in Leningrad region, where the principal non-timber use of forests
is for recreation. The project would finance equipment and consultancy
services (US$ 2.4 million)
Component C. Project management and implementation services
The project would finance the services of a project implementation unit (the
Foundation for Enterprise restructuring) which would provide support to the
core implementing agencies in project management, including procurement,
financial and expenditure management, project coordination and reporting and
monitoring
7.      Implementation arrangements
The Federal Forest Service (FFS) of Russia, with each of the pilot Regional
Forest Committees, would have technical responsibility for implementation
of part A of the project. The Regional Forest Committees of the pilot regions
- 5 -



would be responsible for day to day implementation. The regional forest
committees would have initial responsibility for preparing technical
specifications for goods and services specific to the regions under Part A to
be provided, for participating in procurement evaluation and for contract
signature, and for routine reporting.    The regional administrations of each
of the regions would have responsibility for implementation of part B.
Specifically, for Khabarovsk the Committee of Economy, and for Krasnoyarsk
the Committee of Natural Resources would have responsibility. Directors have
been nominated and need to be officially appointed. The regional
administration would be responsible for preparing technical specifications
for goods and services to be provided for part B, for participating in
procurement evaluation, for contract signature and for routine monitoring.
Regional supervisory committees, under the chairmanship of the of the
Deputy Governors, with representatives from the Committees of Economy,
Natural Resources, Environment, State Property and others as appropriate,
would meet at least every four months. They would approve the annual work-
program and budget , coordinate project activities between departments,
approve the membership of the regional bid commissions and keep the regional
legislature apprised of project activities.    The existing inter-ministerial
Supervisory Committee, under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Economy and
with the Federal Forest Service at deputy chair, would continue to assure
coordination at federal level and make key decisions regarding project
policy. Other members include the Ministry of Finance and the State
Committee for Environment, and the deputy governors of the pilot project
Regional Administrations. The committee would meet at least every four months
and more often as necessary. (This committee has functioned effectively as
the Project Steering Committee during the two years since the project
inception.)
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring(FES), an existing Project
Management Support Unit in Moscow, would provide project management services
in procurement, financial management and project reporting, to the FFS and
Regional Administrations.. It would also conduct a mid-term progress review
during the second year, which would recommend redesign as appropriate
While component A would be financed by the Federal Government, Component B
would be financed by the Regional Administrations, through sub-loan
agreements to be signed between the Regional Governments and Ministry of
Finance.
8.      Lessons learned   from Previous Bank projects
Experience with previous projects in general has indicated the importance of
adequate counterpart funding being made available, of procurement
arrangements being simple and well understood, and of clear implementation
arrangements. In the environment subsector, experience has indicated the
importance of co-ordination between concerned agencies, of adequate
preparation and of public support. An emerging issue in Russia, since the
August 1998 financial crisis concerns also the credit-worthiness of the
regions. More specifically the Poland Forest Development Support Project
Implementation Completion Report, June 1999 (the only forestry project
completed in the ECA region) summarizes three relevant key lessons: (a) in
countries with strong forest traditions (like Poland and Russia) the
benefits of Bank assistance to the sector lie more in introduction of modern
technologies and institution strengthening than in expanding production; (b)
- 6 -



the introduction of forest management innovations must be accompanied by
clear evidence of their advantages ; (c)          institutional development
activities need to emphasize economic and financial sustainability. Sector
strategies (Natural Resource Management, East Asia Region) emphasize the
importance of policy and institutional reform and in-country consensus for
this in restoring growth and sustainability. Russia country portfolio
reviews emphasize the need for implementation readiness. All of these lessons
have been reflected in project design.
9.      Sustainability
The project does not involve significantly increased recurrent cost financing
and does not involve new staff recruitment. It would be implemented by
existing institutions (the Federal Forest Service, regional administrations
and existing training institutions) with only implementation support (in
procurement, financial management and project reporting) provided by the
project implementation unit. The Federal Forest Service is long established
and has substantial experience in implementing the programs supported under
the project. The regional organizations are also well established. Reforms
introduced are likely to be sustainable because they are in the interests of
most major stakeholders. They will lead to more sustainable forest
management, increased revenue generation for forest management and for the
regional and federal budgets, increased employment for local populations, and
increased transparency in forest operations for enterprises and interested
NGOs.
Risks include political constraints that legislators may face in passing
regional forest regulations, deterioration in the financial situation of
the regions, and reluctance of investors to contribute to the sector's
recovery. These risks have been mitigated in project design by involving
regional administrations fully in developing new policies, by the Ministry of
Finance ensuring that the regions which participate in component B have good
credit rating before sub-loan agreements are signed
(In this regard Leningrad, for component B, may be substituted by another
region such as Vologda), and by promoting policy reforms whose objective is
to improve the investment climate.
10.     Social  Assessment and Stakeholder Participation
A social assessment was undertaken as part of the project preparation
exercise   The social assessment included an analysis of the different
population groups dependent on the forest sector as well as the local and
federal administrations, industry representatives and NGOs.
At the federal level stakeholders include the federal government agencies,
academic community and national and international non-government
organizations NGOs. At regional and local level they include the Regional
Administrations, regional research institutes, the forest enterprises and
their employees, local governments, local communities and NGOs. They also
include town and city dwellers who use the forests for recreation. During
project preparation an analysis was made of the different stakeholder groups.
Surveys have also been undertaken of forest enterprises (under this project)
and of potential investors (under preparation of the Forest Guarantee
operation). NGOs are represented on the preparation steering committees.
NGOs are concerned above all about environmentally sustainable forest
resource management, as are the government agencies, within the constraints
under which they are working. Local communities are concerned above all
- 7 -



about employment opportunities and living conditions. Foreign investors are
concerned about the investment climate.
The pilot projects and accompanying measures of the FFS support increases
stakeholder participation in forest management in a number of ways through
(i)     further implementation of the new Forest Code, in particular, public
access to and consultation on forest land-use planning (NGOs);
(ii)    improving public education and awareness regarding forest management
and use (NGOs and local communities);
(iii)   further supporting measures which are likely to improve the
environment for investors and enhance employment opportunities (local
communities, investors and the government);
(iv)    upgrading the skills of the enterprise workforce and improving the
work environment for forest service staff. (local communities, investors and
the FFS).
The project also addresses a number of concerns of potential investors as
identified in the survey through clarifying leasing arrangements, supporting
certification and fire insurance, upgrading work skills and supporting
rationalization of the tax regime.
11.     Benefits
Benefits include financial and economic benefits, as well as ecological,
institutional and social benefits. Financial benefits include increased
government revenues from improved resource assessment and taxation, more
effective cost-accounting, higher export prices from certification, and
increased tax revenues as investors respond to a more favorable investment
environment. Economic benefits include increased timber value from reduced
commercial timber losses from fire and more rapid growth of forest from
improved regeneration. Ecological benefits include those from better quality
timber, better forest land-use planning and inventory, forest biodiversity
and landscape planning, conservation of forest ecosystems through improved
fire protection and overall forest management. Institutional benefits
include those from better training, financing and role-definition for the
Federal Forest Service, more transparency in planning, and better managed
forest enterprises. Social benefits include increased employment as a result
of a more favorable investment environment, education and training, and
better functioning of local communities as a result of restoration of their
economic base.
The target population includes the Federal Forest Service, regional
administrations and forest enterprises. It includes the employees of
enterprises and inhabitants of forest enterprise communities who would
benefit from increased employment, as well as enterprise managers and
potential investors. It also includes 'civil society', including NGOs and
local communities, who would benefit from the more transparent forest land-
use planning practices being supported.
The project should also have demonstration benefits for the other regions.
Contact Points:
-8-



Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Task Team Leader, ECSSD
Tel: (202) 473-2270,
e-mail: MBromhead@Worldbank.org
The InfoShop
World Bank
1818 H St. NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: 202-456-5454
Fax:    202-522-1500
Contact Names:
Dr. Evgeny Kuzmichev, Deputy Chief
Federal Forest Service of Russia
Pyatnitskaya, 59/19
Moscow 113184 Russia
Tel. (+7-095) 951-8720; Fax (+7-095) 953-0950
Email: interdep@space.ru
Mr. Mikhail Kudryashov, Chairman
Leningrad Oblast Forest Committee
Kuybysheva, 21
St. Petersburg 197046 Russia
Tel. (+7-812) 233-6630; Fax (+7-812) 233-2635
Email: spb3481@spb.sitek.net
Mr. Alexander Zabelin, Deputy Chairman
Krasnoyarsk Kray Forest Committee
Prospekt Mira, 93
Krasnoyarsk, 660017, Russia
Tel. (+7-3912) 22-16-72; Fax (+7-3912) 22-44-20
Email: mark@kyrles.krasnoyarsk.su
Dr. Alexander Levintal, Deputy Governor
Khabarovsk Kray Administration
Muravyova-Amurskogo, 19
Khabarovsk 680002 Russia
Tel. (+7-4212) 32-97-39; Fax (+7-4212) 32-83-97
Email: econ@infotel.khabarovsk.su
Mr. Mstislav Korolkov, Director General
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
Smolenskiy Bulvar 3/5, Suite 303
Moscow 119121 Russia
Tel. (+7-095) 792-3010; Fax (+7-095) 792-3011
Email: MKorolkov@fer.ru
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 24, 1999.
- 9-



Annex
In accordance with the Bank's OP 4.01 on environmental assessment, the
project has been given environmental category rating B. (see also
environmental annexe).
Project environmental impacts would be positive. They would include improved
forest land-use planning, with better focus on ecological and biodiversity,
improved regulations for sustainable fire management, and testing of
alternative approaches to certification. Improved forest protection will
also protect forest landscapes against fires, of which 80% are caused by man.
Training in improved forest utilization technologies, with higher
environmental standards, will also reduce waste and damage from forest
utilization. Increased carbon storage would be a global benefit. A draft
environmental assessment has been carried out (see "Environmental Assessment"
in project files).. It summarizes environmental benefits and risks, and
recommends appropriate actions; in particular, all bidding documents for
goods to be procured through the project should include provision for the
appropriate environmental safeguards; the main risks would come with not
adhering to existing regulations. The FER would have responsibility for
ensuring that these safeguards are fully complied with, working with the
Regional Environmental Committees as appropriate.
In accordance with Federal Russian Law 172/02, work has begun on an
environmental assessment of the project, and initial public hearings have
been held in each region.
Despite the expected environmental and social benefits of the project, there
is concern by civil society, in Russia as in many other countries, about
governance and lack of transparency in the forest sector. The Russian
authorities have frequently included NGOs in steering committee meetings at
national and regional level, the EA process has involved public
consultations, and the forest inventory/planning component includes provision
for public disclosure of forest management plans. The ad hoc CEO forum
chaired by the Bank president has provided an additional opportunity for
Forest administrations, industry, and NGOs to share concerns. The World
Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Federal Forest Service have also recently signed
an alliance. The project provides a series of opportunities for continuing
increased transparency in the forest sector.
Annex 11: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
Russian Federation: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project
In accordance with the World Bank Environmental Assessment (EA) policy, the
proposed Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project has been screened and placed into
EA Category "B". It requires an appropriate environmental analysis and
elaboration of environmental management measures commensurate to anticipated
impacts.
Bank safeguard environmental and social policies and procedures, particularly
those related to Natural Habitats, Water Resources Management, Pest
Management, Indigenous Peoples, Forestry, Disclosure of Operational
- 10 -



Information, have been applied during project preparation as appropriate.
Copies of these environmental and social policies and procedures have been
provided and explained to the Russian counterparts.
As mandated by Russian regulations, a draft Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) report has been prepared. In accordance with the Russian law "On
Ecological Expertise", the State Ecological Expertise (SEE) has been
arranged by the State Committee on Environmental Protection (SCEP) to review
the project documentation, including a draft EIA. Russian procedures require
public discussion of the SEE and this has been undertaken. A draft EIA is
available in the project files, but is yet to be finally approved by the
SCEP.
Russian legislation, particularly the Forest and Water Codes, Federal laws
"On Environmental Protection", "On Wildlife Protection", "On Sanitary-
Epidemiological Well-being of the Population", "On Fire Safety", "On
Public Associations", as well as other procedures, requirements and
standards have been applied during project preparation.
The proposed project continues Bank-Government dialogue on the economy-wide
environmental issues in the Russian Federation that started with the
Environmental Management Project, the GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project
and particularly the Forest Policy Review. The review identified the major
issues constraining sustainable forest management and the project addresses
several of these. Given the size of the forest sector in Russia and the range
of issues, the proposed project, in order to achieve "results on the ground"
focuses policy reform and project support in three representative pilot
regions (see Annex 2 and PIP for a description of the pilot regions and major
constraints facing the forest sector in these regions).
The project objectives are described in Annex 1 and include:
Improved public sector management through support to policy reform and
sustainable forest management practices in the three pilot regions of
Leningrad Oblast, Krasnoyarsk Kray and Khabarovsk Kray.
An improved enabling environment for private investment in sustainable forest
utilization.
This project may be followed by a number of Bank-financed operations,
including a Forest Sector Partial-Risk Guarantee Facility, complemented by
IFC-financed projects. A separate EA is being undertaken for the guarantee
facility currently under preparation, following EA procedures for Financial
Intermediary-type (FI) projects.
In the course of project preparation the public contributed considerably with
comments and suggestions both at Federal and regional levels. Public
hearings were held in each region, during which a broad range of
stakeholders, including national, local and international NGOs,
representatives of academia, regional forest agencies and the private sector
were involved (see also Annex 12). The Ad Hoc Forum of Forestry CEOs and
NGOs, initiated by Mr. Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank, also helped
to create an enabling atmosphere for this dialogue within Russia. The public
has been supportive of the proposed project.
- 11 -



The draft EIA has confirmed that no adverse environmental, social and other
impacts will be caused by activities under the project, if implemented
correctly. Some risks are associated with procurement of goods in poor
compliance with existing certification, permitting and licensing standards.
No major risks are associated with procurement of works, of which there is
very little under the project (connected with nursery establishment).
Compliance with applicable Bank and Russian policies and legislation as well
as environmental due diligence in implementation, will be specified in
bidding documents and the project loan agreement.
Some concerns may also be caused by over-harvesting of and illegal trade in
some non-wood products. Although this is not a specific project-related
risk, it will be monitored. Project activities will take place only in areas
where there are no potential land ownership or protection regime disputes.
Wide geographic spread of the project adds to its complexity and requires
close supervision. Table 1 below summarizes potential risks and proposes
appropriate action which would be undertaken in the course of project
implementation.
The draft EIA has proposed the following essential environmental management
principles and due diligence practices to be complied with during project
implementation:
When preparing specifications for and procuring equipment, including
computer, harvesting and processing equipment, agrochemicals, planting
material, fire-fighting foams, and solvents, compliance will be sought with
all applicable Russian environmental, safety, social, labor and other
requirements, standards, permitting and licensing procedures. If these are
not available, then international standards acceptable to Bank shall apply;
The project will budget appropriate contingency funds for the preparation of
EIA's for certain site-specific project activities and implementation of any
measures that may be required as a result of the State Ecological Expertise
(SEE); the disbursement of loan proceeds for such activities should be
explicitly conditioned on a positive conclusion of the site-specific SEE;
Selection of pilot areas and participating forest enterprises should be
determined on the basis of transparent selection and eligibility criteria,
including companies' environmental track record and capabilities, and their
commitment to plan and implement environmental, social and other mitigation
measures required under the Russian legislation;
Should any activities that warrant special attention and/or action under the
Bank safeguard policies, e.g. procurement of pesticides (not presently
envisaged under the project), preparation by the Borrower of measures in
accordance with Bank guidelines should be a condition of disbursement of
requested funds;
The Forest Sector Partial-Risk Guarantee Facility under preparation is
supporting elaboration of EIA and environmental audit procedures and
guidelines for projects and operations in the different types of forest
utilization; these will help to develop proposed insurance policies and
products as well as provide basis to decide in the future on approaches to
address environmental liabilities.
- 12 -



Finally, as the Bank continues conversion and elaboration of environmental,
social and other policies as well as project implementation moves away from
Moscow, it is recommended that the Bank support translation (into Russian)
and training in applications of its relevant policies and procedures during
the Federal and regional project launch workshops.
The project implementing agencies are fully aware of the above
recommendations of the EIA and will ensure compliance.
Annex 11 Table Available in the InfoShop.
Leningrad may not be eligible to borrow for Component B. If this is in another region
in north-west Russia, probably Vologda would be considered for Component B; it is a
forested region with considerable export potential, and its financial position is
secure.
Page 17
- 13 -



