Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4552 RU
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 30, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4552 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 2001, between the RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, with the assistance of the 
Participating Regions (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (h) of this Agreement); 
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Sub-borrowing Regions (as such term is 
defined in Section 1.02 (n) of this Agreement), with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower shall make available to the Participating Regions a part of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to 
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The"General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single 
Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein and herein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement between the MOF and FER, referred to in 
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Agency Agreement;
(b)
"FER" means the Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and 
Financial Institutions Development, a legal entity organized and established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
law"On Non-Commercial Organizations", dated January 12, 1996, and operating on the basis of its 
charter dated July 5, 1996, as amended on June 2, 1997, and registered with the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Justice on July 27, 1997, and having a Board of Supervisors whose members include representatives of 
the MOF and MIST, or any successor or successors thereto;
(c)
"MIST" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry, Science and Technologies, or any 
successor or successors thereto;
(d)
"MNR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources, or any successor or 
Page  3
successors thereto;
(e)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor or successors 
thereto;
(f)
"Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted by the 
FER, setting forth procedures and rules related to Project implementation, as the same may be amended 
from time to time;
(g) 
"Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreements" means the agreements to be 
entered between the FER and MIST, and the Sub-borrowing Regions, in accordance with Section 3.02 
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements to the Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreements; and"Part B 
Regional Project Implementation Agreement" means each and any such agreement;
(h) 
"Participating Regions" means the subjects of the Borrower selected by the Borrower to 
carry out Part A of the Project, in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and acceptable to the Bank, and"Participating Region" means each and 
any such region;
(i) 
"Project Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators developed by the Borrower, and 
satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor and evaluate, on ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of Project objectives, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and set 
forth in the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(j)
"PMR" means a project management report referred to in Section 4.01 (d) (ii) of this 
Agreement, and  prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Regional Supervisory Committees" means, collectively, the regional supervisory 
committees established by the Participating Regions, and referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto; and"Regional Supervisory Committee" means each 
and any such committee;
(l)
"MNR-FER Project Implementation Support Agreement" means the agreement between 
the MNR and FER referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such terms includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the MNR-FER 
Project Implementation Support Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(n) 
"Sub-borrowing Regions" means the subjects of the Borrower selected by the Borrower 
to carry out Part B of the Project from among the Participating Regions, in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria set forth in Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and acceptable to the Bank, 
and"Sub-borrowing Region" means each and any such region;
(o)
"Subsidiary Loans" means loans made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to the 
Sub-borrowing Regions out of the proceeds of the Loan in connection with Part B of the Project, under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;
Page  4
(p) 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered between the 
Borrower, represented by the MOF, and the Participating Regions, in accordance with Section 3.02 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms includes all schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" 
means each and any such agreement; and
(q)
"Supervisory Committee" means the inter-ministerial Project supervisory committee 
established by the Borrower, and whose members include representatives of the MIST, MNR, MOF and 
other parties approved by the Borrower and the Participating Regions, and referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the"Project implementation entity" 
shall be deemed as a reference to the FER.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by a Sub-borrowing Region under a Subsidiary Loan to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required under Part B of the Project, in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Loan Account is requested.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a 
special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) 
of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of the said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn 
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
Page  5
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus 
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, 
but excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(
i
i
)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first 
day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(
i
v
)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 
it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for 
each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of the 
interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers 
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other 
than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and 
Page  6
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project, primarily through the MNR, MOF and MIST, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and 
shall cause the Participating Regions to carry out Part A of the Project, and cause the Sub-borrowing 
Regions to carry out Part B of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
carry out the Project, cause the Participating Regions to carry out Part A of the Project 
and cause the Sub-borrowing Regions to carry out Part B of the Project, in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
through the MOF, enter into an agency agreement (the Agency Agreement) with the 
FER, and, through the MNR, enter into a project implementation support agreement (the MNR-FER 
Project Implementation and Support Agreement), both under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, which shall include, but not be limited to the following: (i) scope of rights and responsibilities, and 
description of activities to be carried out by the FER during the execution of the Project, consistent with 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the MNR-FER Project Implementation Support Agreement; (ii) staffing 
requirements to be fulfilled by the FER; (iii) basis of the FER financing related to expenditures incurred 
in connection with its responsibilities and activities under the Project; and (iv) reporting, accounting and 
auditing requirements;
(c)
for the purposes of Part B of the Project: (i) relend, through the MOF, the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Sub-borrowing Regions (the Subsidiary Loans), 
under subsidiary loan agreements (the Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Sub-borrowing Regions, under the procedures and with terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall comply with procedures set forth in Part A and 
include the terms and conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) enter, 
through the MIST and FER, into a regional project implementation agreement (the Part B Regional 
Project Implementation Agreement) with each Sub-borrowing Region; and
(d)
exercise its rights under the Agency Agreement, MNR-FER Project Implementation 
Support Agreement, Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Part B Regional Project Implementation 
Agreements, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Agency Agreement, MNR-FER Project Implementation Support Agreement, 
Page  7
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreements, or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and  
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said 
plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the FER to maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the FER to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheet, statements of 
sources and uses of funds, and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts, and report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the FER to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate 
Page  8
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least one (1) year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the FER to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors on the project management reports 
(PMRs) submitted during such fiscal year, and as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and  
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the FER to prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a PMR for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) 
sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and 
(ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and 
(ii)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts 
Page  9
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
the Agency Agreement or MNR-FER Project Implementation Support Agreement shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of the FER to carry out the Project; and
(b)
the FER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency Agreement, 
MNR-FER Project Implementation Support Agreement, or Part B Project Implementation Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified, namely the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of 
the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Agency Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and FER;
(b)
the MNR-FER Project Implementation Support Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of MNR and FER;
(c)
the Operating Manual has been adopted by the FER; and
(d)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of Section 
12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the 
Bank:
(a)
that the Agency Agreement has been duly authorized by the MOF and FER, and is 
legally binding upon the MOF and FER in accordance with its terms; and
(b) 
that the MNR-FER Project Implementation Support Agreement has been duly authorized 
by the MNR and FER, and is legally binding upon MNR and FER in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for 
Page  10
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of 
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuri V. Ushakov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
Page  11
By /s/ Shigeo Katsu
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollars)
% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ 
services, including 
training:
(a) for Part A of the 
Project
(b) for Part B of the 
Project
4,900,000
3,000,000
   100%
   100%
(2)
Goods:
(a) for Part A of the 
Project
(b) for Part B of the 
Project
27,400,000
19,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost); 
and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally
(3)
Works, including technical
services:
(a) for Part A of
850,000
80%
the Project
(b) for Part B of
250,000
80%
the Project
(4)
Project Management 
Costs
3,000,000
100%
Page  12
(5)
Fee
600,000         
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
1,000,000
TOTAL
_________ 
60,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower;
(b)
the term"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term"Project Management Costs" means reasonable incremental expenses: (i) 
incurred by the Borrower on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
the cost of: (A) transportation and travel, (B) training civil servants of the Borrower and FER staff, (C) 
attendance of seminars and conferences, and (D) communication; and (ii) incurred by the FER on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including the cost of: (A) office goods 
and supplies, (B) maintenance of office equipment, systems and facilities, (C) insurance of property, (D) 
rent and utilities, (E) communication, (F) transportation and travel, (G) FER consultants’ services, (H) 
FER staff salaries, including qualified social charges, (I) training of FER staff, (J) attendance of seminars 
and conferences, (K) Project-related auditing services, and supervision costs, and (L) other ordinary, 
reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project implementation, management and 
monitoring; provided, however, that the expenditures hereunder shall be set forth in approved annual 
budgets of the FER, adopted pursuant to the Agency Agreement, MNR-FER Project Implementation 
Support Agreement, Operating Manual, and paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement; and
(d)
the term"training" means: (i) fees of consultants, including educational or other 
institutions and organizations, that provide training services; and (ii) cost of study tours, cost of 
workshops, and related travel expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances of Project 
beneficiaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) 
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after October 15, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each; (b) works, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by 
firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, services provided by individuals, 
under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each; and (d) project management costs, under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
Page  13
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve public sector management of the Borrower’s forests, 
strengthen the enabling environment for private sector involvement in forest utilization in the 
Participating Regions, and replicate policy reforms and improved forest management practices outside of 
the Participating Regions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Sustainable Public Forest Management
Development of forest policy reforms and implementation of an improved legal and regulatory 
framework in the forest sector, improvement in the collection, organization and dissemination of 
forest-related information and forest management planning techniques, improvement in forest fire and 
pest management techniques, and regeneration of forests in the Participating Regions, and dissemination 
of best practices and information outside of the Participating Regions, through the financing of goods, 
works and services.
Part B
: Institutional Strengthening of Forest Enterprises
Training and re-training of managers and staff of forest industry enterprises in the Sub-Borrowing 
Regions in the use of modern equipment for forest harvesting, timber processing and non-wood forest 
products processing, and testing and implementation of modern forest utilization and forest enterprise 
management techniques in the Sub-Borrowing Regions, through the financing of goods, works and 
services. 
Part C
: Project Management and Implementation
Assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, including procurement related 
activities, training of the staff of the MNR and Participating Regions in the management and 
implementation of the Project, design and implementation of a system of financial management and 
accounting, preparation of the accounts and financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, audit of the accounts and financial statements referred to above, and institutional 
strengthening of the FER, through the financing of project management costs, including external auditing 
services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  14
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars
)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2005
through April 15, 2017
2,500,000
________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Sections  
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 4
Page  15
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply 
to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works, including technical services, estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  16
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for 
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured under Part B and Part C.1 hereof, and the first two 
contracts procured under each Part C.2, Part C.3 and Part C.4 hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  17
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for 
local workshops and seminars, and services under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants of the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants’ Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for organization and conducting of seminars estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount of $330,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2
.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  18
Implementation Program
1.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
.
(a) The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with the indicators (the Project Monitoring Indicators) set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 5, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall, through the FER, prepare, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 31, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph 1, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding year, 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.  
(c)
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower, through the Supervisory 
Committee, shall review with the Bank, by April 30 or such later date as the Bank shall request, the 
report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 1, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
Supervisory Committee
.
The Supervisory Committee shall be responsible for the overall 
direction and strategic oversight of the Project, selection of the Participating Regions, and approval of 
annual work plans and budget related to Project implementation.
3.
MNR
.
The MNR shall, with the assistance of the FER, be responsible for the implementation 
and monitoring of Part A of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and, jointly with 
the Supervisory Committee and MOF,  implementation and monitoring of Part C of the Project.
4.
MOF
.
The MOF, jointly with the Supervisory Committee, shall be responsible for the selection 
of the Sub-borrowing Regions, and for the Subsidiary Loans to the Sub-borrowing Regions, and, jointly 
with MNR, shall be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of Part C of the Project.
5.
MIST
.
The MIST shall steer the work of the Supervisory Committee and, through the 
participation in the Supervisory Committee, shall be responsible for strategic oversight and supervision 
of the Project, inter-ministerial coordination and, jointly with the MOF and FFS, selection of 
Participating Regions.
6.
FER
.
The Borrower shall ensure that the FER shall: (a) be responsible for day-to-day 
administrative aspects of Project, including financial management, procurement, disbursement,  
engagement of outside auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing reports and their dissemination to 
relevant agencies of the Borrower and to the Bank, preparation of progress reports and annual reports in 
respect of or related to the Project; (b) assist the MNR in the overall coordination of Part A of the 
Project; (c) assist the Participating Regions in the implementation of Part A of the Project and assist the 
Sub-borrowing Regions in the implementation of Part B of the Project, implemented on their respective 
territories; and (d) for each year during the implementation of the Project, prepare and furnish for 
approval to the Supervisory Committee and Bank a proposed annual budget, annual work plan, and 
annual procurement plan, all in such detail as shall be reasonably requested, and which shall include 
information concerning staffing of the FER and expenditures to be financed in connection with FER 
functions under the Project.  The Borrower shall ensure that until the completion of the Project, the FER 
Page  19
maintains an implementation unit which at all times functions in a manner, with qualified staff and 
consultants, and with facilities and other resources necessary for the Project and satisfactory to the Bank.  
The Borrower shall ensure that the FER carries out its activities and responsibilities under the Project in 
accordance with the above annual work and procurement plans, budget, Operating Manual, Agency 
Agreement, and MNR-FER Project Implementation Agreement.
7.
Participating and Sub-borrowing Regions
.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Participating 
Regions shall be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the regional components of Part 
A
of the Project, and that the Sub-borrowing Regions shall be responsible for the implementation and 
monitoring of Part B of the Project, all with technical assistance to be provided by the FER.  The 
Borrower shall select the Participating Regions based on the size and importance of forest resources of 
the proposed Participating Region and the level of commitment to policy and management reforms to be 
undertaken by the proposed Participating Region in accordance with the overall Project objectives and 
Part A of the Project.  The Borrower shall select the Sub-borrowing Regions in accordance with the 
selection criteria set forth in Part B of Schedule 6 to this Loan Agreement.
8.
Regional Supervisory Committees
.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Regional Supervisory 
Committees shall be responsible for the overall direction and strategic oversight of the Project at the 
regional level, coordination with the appropriate authorities of the Participating Regions, and approval of 
annual work plans and budgets related to regional aspects of Project implementation.
Annex
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
1.
Significant increase in forest revenue.
2.
Significant increase in forest area covered by improved information and management planning 
systems.
3.
Significant increase in forest area covered by improved fire and pest monitoring and management 
system.
4.
Significant increase in forest area regenerated with improved technology.
5.
Significant increase in the number of persons trained under Part B of the Project.
6.
Procurement, disbursement, reporting and Project management undertaken according to an 
agreed upon implementation plan and within budget.
Page  20
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria, 
and Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
and Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreements
Part A
: Procedures
1.
No expenditures for goods, works and services required under Part B of the Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless appropriate Subsidiary Loan shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Part B Regional Project Implementation 
Agreement have been executed among the Borrower, FER, and Sub-borrowing Region, as described 
below.
2.
When presenting a Subsidiary Loan to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, in form satisfactory to the Bank: (a) a draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement and draft Part B Regional 
Project Implementation Agreement; (b) description of the Sub-borrowing Region to which the Subsidiary 
Loan is proposed to be made, specifically information concerning the eligibility criteria; (c) a feasibility 
and appraisal report related to the proposed activities under Part B of the Project and to be financed by 
the Subsidiary Loan, including legal, technical, financial, operational, procurement, and environmental 
aspects; and (d) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.
Following the approval of the proposed Subsidiary Loan by the Bank, the Borrower and 
Sub-borrowing Region shall execute the draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Part B Regional Project 
Implementation Agreement referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Part A of this Schedule 6, and giving the 
Borrower rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, and containing, inter
alia
,
the terms and conditions set forth in Part C of this Schedule 6.
4.
Applications and requests made by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 shall 
be presented to the Bank no later than six (6) months following the date of effectiveness of this 
Agreement.  
Part B:
Eligibility Criteria
1.
Sub-borrowing Regions shall be selected by the Borrower based on the following selection and 
eligibility criteria:
(a) 
size and importance of forest resources of the proposed Sub-borrowing Region;
(b)
level of commitment to policy and management reforms to be undertaken by the 
proposed Sub-borrowing Region in accordance with the overall Project objectives and Part B of the 
Project; and
(c)
overall financial status of the proposed Sub-borrowing Region and its ability to repay the 
Subsidiary Loan.
Part C
:
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Part B Regional Project 
Page  21
Implementation Agreements
1.
Each Subsidiary Loan shall be made under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into by the 
Borrower, represented by the MOF, and the Sub-borrowing Region, and Part B Regional Project 
Implementation Agreement, entered by the Borrower, represented by the MIST, and FER, and the 
Sub-borrowing Region. 
2.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreement shall 
provide that the Subsidiary Loan shall: 
(a)
be denominated and be repayable (principal and interest) in U.S. Dollars equivalent; 
(b)
be repayable in eleven (11) years, including a three (3) year grace period; 
(c)
carry an interest rate on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time equal to the interest rate specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, plus 
a
margin (surcharge) of 1.5 percent, a commitment charge on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time equal to the percentage of the commitment charge paid by the Borrower to 
the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and a fee equal to the fee specified in Section 2.4 of 
this Agreement; and 
(d) 
be cancelable by the Sub-borrowing Region. 
3.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreement shall 
require, inter
alia
, that the Sub-borrowing Region: 
(a)
furnish evidence acceptable to the Borrower that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreement have been executed, and are valid and legally 
binding upon the Sub-borrowing Region.
(b)
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental, commercial and managerial standards;
(c)
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Subsidiary 
Loan;
(d)
have the records, accounts and financial statements related to the Subsidiary Loan for 
each fiscal year audited (by auditors engaged by the FER), in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and 
furnish to the Borrower not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year certified copies of 
the financial statements for such year so audited and the report of such audit by the auditors of such 
scope and such detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(e)
procure the goods, works and services to be financed by the Subsidiary Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and to use such goods, works and 
services exclusively in the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(f)
allow the Borrower, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall 
Page  22
so request, to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction financed by the Subsidiary 
Loan, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(g)
take out and maintain, or, when applicable, ensure that third parties receiving goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan maintain,  with responsible insurers such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including insurance 
covering hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
to replace or repair such goods;
(h)
assume the foreign exchange risk between the Dollar and the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
contribute, as co-financing, funds sufficient to pay for taxes, levies and duties related to 
goods, works and services to be procured under the Subsidiary Loan;
(j)
open, by the date on which the Sub-borrowing Region shall enter into the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and Part B Regional Project Implementation Agreement, and thereafter maintain, a 
separate account (the Sub-borrowing Region  Project Account) in a commercial bank under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower, including protection against set-off, seizure, or attachment, and 
deposit and maintain in such Sub-borrowing Region Project Account an amount reasonably sufficient to 
pay for expenditures to be incurred by the Sub-borrowing Region under Part B of the Project. 
(k)
utilize the amounts deposited into the said Sub-borrowing Region Project Account 
exclusively to finance the respective costs of carrying out Part B of the Project;
(l)
appoint representatives to serve on the Regional Supervisory Committee; 
(m)
provide assistance to and cooperate with the FER with respect to the FER’s procurement, 
disbursement, accounting and reporting functions under Part B of the Project;
(n)
assist the FER to prepare for submission to the Borrower, in a manner and by a date 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, a completion report; and
(o)
give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrowing 
Region to the use of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by such party to perform its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Part B Regional Project Implementation 
Agreement.
4.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be subject to the following condition of effectiveness, 
namely that a Sub-borrowing Region Project Account has been opened and an appropriate amount 
equivalent to the expenditures projected to be required and to be co-financed by the Sub-borrowing 
Region has been deposited.
Page  23
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term"eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term"eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, services, works and incremental operating costs required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term"Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$1,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
US$3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence acceptable to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.   
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
Page  24
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.   
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
Page  25
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
