Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3073 
Operation Name 
Chile 
–
Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Public 
Works DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Roads and highways (60%); General water, sanitation and flood 
protection sector (20%); General public administration sector 
(20%) 
Project ID 
P100854 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS 
Date PID Prepared 
April 25, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 13, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 14, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Over the past four years, the Chilean economy has reestablished solid economic growth, fueled 
by robust domestic demand and record high copper prices.  GDP growth accelerated from 2 - 3 
percent in 2001 and 2002 to 5.7 percent in 2005.  Growth in 2006 settled to 4.0 percent.  
Macroeconomic indicators also demonstrate a strong overall performance with declining levels 
of debt to GDP, rapidly increasing average income levels, and low and stable inflation. 
 
The latest IMF Article IV Review completed in September 2006 commended Chilean authorities 
for their continued implementation of sound policies based on a cautious fiscal rule, a good 
inflation targeting framework, and trade liberalization. The IMF noted that these policies, 
combined with a solid financial system, have led to sustained economic growth and contributed 
to poverty reduction.  With a disciplined fiscal policy, a broadly neutral monetary policy, and 
foreign currency earnings expanding as a result of historically high commodity prices, the 
Government’s primary concern has become the achievement of higher economic growth.  In an 
updated assessment of developments and policies in Chile made in April 2007, IMF staff 
reiterate that the country's macroeconomic policies set or conform to best international practice 
in many areas. The economic slowdown in 2006 is explained partly by one-off disruptions in 
copper production, high energy costs, and lumpy investment, while the economy is expected to 
grow closely in line with potential this year. 
 
Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability 
 
On March 11, 2006 Michelle Bachelet succeeded Ricardo Lagos as Chile's elected President—
the fourth successive representative of the Concertación coalition to hold the office since 1990. 
The new government reaffirmed its commitment to the prudent macroeconomic management and 
the outward oriented economy of previous administrations while expanding access to public 
services that will help more Chileans contribute to the country's growth and development. The 
2007 Budget, submitted to Congress on September 30th, 2006, is in line with these priorities. 
Page  2
Total government spending will be increased by 8.9 percent in real terms, with more than two 
thirds of this increase going to social programs.  The spending increase is to be financed in part 
through increased copper revenues. 
 
The central government has become a net creditor, with debt claims equivalent to 7 percent of 
GDP at end-2006.  Gross central government debt has fallen from 38.8 percent of GDP in 1991 
to a record low of 5.3 percent of GDP at end-2006.  Gross Central Bank debt declined from 52.8 
percent of GDP in 1991 to 16.6 percent at end-2006.  Low debt levels contribute toward 
insulating the economy from the adverse effects of external shocks and allow the government to 
pursue stabilization policies.  Chile’s strong economic performance and continued favorable 
global conditions resulted in an upgrade of its Moody’s long-term foreign-currency credit rating 
in July 2006, from “Baa1” to “A2”, bringing it to the levels of new EU members such as Poland 
and Slovak Republic. 
 
Looking ahead, the medium-term macroeconomic projections of the Chilean authorities are for 
real GDP growth to stabilize at about 5 percent per annum, which it considers the country’s 
sustainable growth rate (Table 1).  The strong macroeconomic framework provides a solid basis 
for these growth projections, with stabilization policies having enhanced the country’s growth 
prospects.  Public savings have grown to the point where the country is a net creditor and the 
Government’s credibility as a debt issuer in international markets has been further enhanced.  
Adverse shocks would be counterbalanced by the Government’s ability to pursue counter-
cyclical fiscal policies, thereby reducing macroeconomic instability and ensuring the 
sustainability of social expenditures.  In turn, the country is expected to reap the socio-economic 
benefits of the increased social expenditures since the early-1990s in terms of higher human 
capital and productivity. 
 
Page  3
Table 1: Chile Macroeconomic Summary and Future Outlook 2003-2009 
 
Table 1: Chile Macroeconomic Summary and Future Outlook 2003-2009 
 
(in percent, unless otherwise stated)
-- actual --
est.
-- proj. --
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
National Accounts
GDP growth
3.9
6.0
5.7
4.0
5.0
5.0
5.4
Domestic demand
4.9
7.5
11.0
6.0
6.3
5.3
5.3
Population 
(millions)
15.8
16.0
16.1
16.5
16.6
16.8
17.0
Balance of payments
Current account (% of GDP)
-1.3
1.7
0.6
3.6
-0.1
3.2
1.9
Imports of goods and services (% of GDP)
32.1
31.3
33.1
30.4
30.3
25.4
25.1
Exports of goods and services (% of GDP)
36.3
40.6
41.9
45.0
39.0
36.9
34.1
External indicators
Total external debt (% of GDP)
58.4
45.8
39.0
32.3
27.2
25.7
24.3
Exchange rate (pa) Ps:US$
691
610
560
530
………
Inflation 
Annual Change in CPI (EOP)
1.1
2.4
3.7
2.6
3.4
2.9
3.0
Fiscal (Central government)
Overall balance to GDP
 1/
-0.4
2.1
4.7
7.9
4.4
1.1
0.4
Note: (est.) Estimated; (proj.) Projections. 
Source: Banco Central de Chile, DIPRES, World Bank and IMF projections 
 
Chile’s actual medium-term growth could well be higher than projected in the authorities’ 
baseline scenario depending on how effectively the challenges are met.  Chile has an enviable 
macroeconomic policy environment, solid financial sector and laudable institutions.  The 
challenge now is to foster policies that encourage innovation; enhance educational quality and 
attainment for all Chileans, and provide adequate physical infrastructure for growth.  One area of 
focus is the continued strengthening of the framework for infrastructure investment and service 
delivery.  The proposed reform of the Ministry of Public Works is integral to this aim, as it is 
designed to improve growth prospects by improving administrative efficiency, reducing 
subsidies and contingent liabilities, and strengthening the competition framework in the 
infrastructure sector. 
 
Latest Government Plan for Growth 
 
To boost job creation and growth, President Bachelet created the “Infrastructure Development 
for Competitiveness Plan” at the inception of her administration to ensure that public 
infrastructure can help different productive sectors be more efficient.  The Plan calls for a 
US$115 million increase in public spending on infrastructure in 2007, and it marks the first step 
in an ambitious program over four years, from 2007 to 2010.  The Plan depends significantly on 
private sector involvement, through improved collaboration—in announcing the Plan, the 
President noted that the Public Works Ministry would be supervising infrastructure concessions 
Page  4
worth US$2.2 billion between 2007 and 2010
—and through tax incentives to stimulate private 
investment in public roads. 
 
On March 13th, 2007, the Government announced the details of its “Chile Invests” Plan that 
provided details on the context in which this greater emphasis on infrastructure investment 
would be carried out.  The new plan includes an initiative entitled, “Creating a More Agile 
Government,” which directly calls for the modernization of the Ministry of Public Works and 
describes the key points of the Institutional Strengthening Program.  The Plan calls for a new 
legal structure for the Ministry that separates out responsibilities for roles and functions (e.g., 
planning, contract design, execution, oversight); strengthens technical capacities (e.g., through 
integrated project management); and creates the Superintendency of Public Works to regulate 
contracts and concessions. 
 
Several other initiatives described in the new growth plan also support the objectives and 
components of the reform.  Under “Accelerating Investments,” the President outlines a program 
for improving the execution and quality of public investments.   This includes better planning 
coordination, greater oversight of investments and maximizing the competitive bidding processes 
in public works contracting—all core elements in the Institutional Strengthening Initiative.  
Under “Expanding Human and Capital Innovation,” the Presidency refers to the need for 
integrated plans for the development of key clusters or supply chains (“clusters claves”), such as 
the fishing, forestry, and mining industries.  This concept is central to the Integrated Planning 
initiative underway at the Ministry of Public Works and the specific analysis referred to in the 
Growth Plan will serve as the basis for the first set of integrated investment plans undertaken at 
MOPW.  Finally, “Making Chile a Tourism Destination” describes the importance of efficient 
and effective transport networks that link the regions—a primary concern of MOPW as it 
embarks on its institutional strengthening program. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The over-all policy objective of the Development Policy Loan is to support the Government’s 
reform of the Ministry of Public Works by strengthening its planning functions; developing 
performance standards for contracts and concessions; improving project management; 
strengthening regulatory oversight of public works and private contracts; and embedding the 
organizational changes in appropriate legal and normative structure.  This, in turn, is meant to 
contribute to the Government’s objectives of greater efficiency in the use of public resources; 
and increased transparency, competition and citizen participation in the contracting and 
concessioning of public works.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The objective of the joint IBRD-IFC Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) is to support Chile’s 
efforts to converge with OECD income levels and living standards by (i) accelerating growth and 
(ii) building a more equitable society.  The Bank Group strategy is based on the maintenance of 
close engagement with the authorities, which in recent years has yielded important results in 
support of key Government programs and through flexible, timely support that advances Chile’s 
Page  5
development vision and leverages the Bank’s comparative advantage in strategic sectors and 
global experience in difficult development challenges. 
 
The Bank has worked closely with the authorities to identify areas where it might be best 
prepared to support these objectives: innovation and business climate; education; social 
protection; regional development; environmental management; and, centrally, infrastructure and 
public services.   
 
The Government of Chile has requested the Bank’s involvement in this initiative in order to 
leverage the Bank’s experience in transport and logistics planning, the design of public-private 
contracts, regulatory frameworks, and organizational reform.  In addition, the Bank offers a 
comparative advantage in its ability to draw upon global knowledge, sustain a policy dialogue, 
and exploit synergies with other operations and past experiences—both successful and 
incomplete—including, but not limited to the Infrastructure for Territorial Development Project 
and the Santiago Urban Transport DPL and TAL. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The Bank will support MOPW’s Reform Initiative with a US$ 30 million single-tranche 
Development Policy Loan and a Technical Assistance Loan in the amount of US$ 11.7 million. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Because the sustainability of the program defined in the DPL is directly related to the successful 
implementation of the related TAL´s components, the Monitoring and Evaluation of each 
component of the Institutional Strengthening Program will be an integral part of tracking the 
sustainability of this DPL.  Indeed, the TAL encompasses the reforms in all of the core business 
areas of the Ministry as well as the development of MOPW’s organizational and legal structure 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The first risk identified is the possible loss of a ministerial champion for reform due to political 
changes, which is rated as Moderate. Three measures have been taken to mitigate this risk. First, 
the DPL is reinforced by a Technical Assistance Loan which provides resources for execution of 
the reforms as well as explicit commitments toward the monitoring and evaluation of progress 
for each of the underlying tasks that comprise the Institutional Strengthening Program. Second, 
many important tasks included in the DPL and the TAL are not part of the political agenda or 
subjected to debate with concessionaires, namely improvements to the planning function, project 
management approach and changes in road contract design mechanisms.  Third, the most 
politically sensitive reform initiative—increased role of independent regulation of concessions—
has been directly championed by President Bachelet.  The bills to create the Superintendency of 
Public Works and amend the Concession Law have been drafted and are currently under Cabinet 
review. 
 
Page  6
There is a risk that the process of broadening MOPW’s planning approach could slow down the 
project pipeline and hinder investment flows.  This risk is rated as “Modest”. As a mitigation 
measure, significant training and capacity building will be provided so that project staff can 
develop a greater understanding of planning tools at all levels of the organization.  In addition, 
the planning training will be linked to that for integrated project managers so as deepen the 
application of the new planning tools.  Finally, a realistic transition period should allow a 
pipeline of projects to develop under current approaches, then through short-term and regional 
plans and, finally, through longer-term and more integrated plans. 
 
A
third risk is that the re-balancing of risks in concession design and strengthening of regulation 
result in declining interest of the private sector in investment. This risk is assessed as “Modest” 
and three mitigation measures are in place. First, the project includes a concession design 
component that looks at appropriate risk-sharing from both economic and financial perspective.  
Second, the project comprises a detailed analysis of all MOPW contractual results as well as a 
market study that informs MOPW of characteristics of local and international markets, by sector.  
This will allow the design of contracts that maximize competition and maintain equilibrium 
between risks and rewards from the perspective of investors/operators.  Finally, a parallel series 
of diagnoses will be conducted on bid procedures.  The results of this analysis will be 
incorporated into the next generation of contract designs and bidding processes of the Ministry 
so as to assure attractive contracts, fair risk-sharing and maximum competition for the bids. 
 
The fourth risk is the possibility that the bills creating the Superintendency of Public Works and 
amending the Concessions Law are not approved by Congress. This risk is considered “Modest,” 
as the President of the Republic, the Minister and the administration have engaged in extensive 
stakeholder consultations to draft a legal package that is both compelling to consumer groups, 
the general public, representatives of the majority coalition and to many key elements of the 
private sector, including the Chamber of Construction.  
 
The last risk identified is the prospect of Congress not passing into law a new organizational 
structure for MOPW, which is considered as ”Substantial”. While it is very hard to predict the 
outcome of legislative initiatives, this risk is mitigated by the fact that the President of the 
Republic has offered a public commitment to the reform agenda and has specifically called for a 
new Ley Orgánica—that is, a Law on the Organizational Structure of MOPW.  In addition, a 
separate proposed law for the Superintendency of Public Works enhances the possibility of a 
fundamental reform being enacted prior to a full legal change for the Ministry.  Nonetheless, this 
risk is rated slightly higher than the other legal changes because the Structural Law is yet to be 
drafted, the timeframe for presentation to Cabinet and Congress will be longer, and the reaction 
from stakeholders to the impact of significant internal restructuring is uncertain. 
 
Considering the considerable mitigation efforts that are part of the planned institutional 
strengthening activities and the result of an explicit presidential-level commitment to the reform, 
the overall risk rating for the DPL is considered as “Modest.” 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Page  7
In Chile, the social impacts of investment activities such as land acquisition, resettlement or 
public health are categorized as components of environmental impacts and so this assessment 
combines social and environmental aspects under one heading.  
 
The Bank recognizes that the Ministry of Public Works, like any agency involved in the 
financing of infrastructure projects, plays a central role in the environmentally and socially 
sustainable development of Chile’s economy.  Nonetheless, it is the Bank’s view that this loan 
will result in no negative poverty, social or environmental impacts.  In order to leverage the 
opportunity of the reform, the Bank and the Ministry have incorporated into the Institutional 
Strengthening Program—supported by the proposed Technical Assistance Loan—several tasks 
aimed at lessening the social and environmental impacts of public works.  The tasks call for 
assessing and strengthening the areas of impact assessment, contract design and oversight as well 
as the feedback mechanism for consumers and third parties affected by project development. In 
addition, the Integrated Planning Component of the reform program is intended to introduce two 
rounds of public consultations into the early stages of investment planning so as to minimize 
negative social impacts and maximize consumer benefits.   
 
Overall, the Bank has found that Chile has a strong system of social and environmental 
safeguards, particularly in terms of the legal and policy environment.  Projects are categorized 
according to potential risk, magnitude and importance of social and environmental impacts, 
similar to the World Bank's approach. Currently, Two different types of environmental 
assessments are carried out, based on project category.  A full Environmental Impact Study is 
required for projects which pose potential adverse impacts on health, natural resources, entail 
major resettlement of population, are located near protected areas or have a high potential of 
affecting the scenic value of an area or could potentially alter areas of high cultural or historical 
value. Projects that do not pose potentially adverse impacts are subject to more limited 
Environmental Impact assessments.  In addition to the EA legislation, projects have to comply 
with specific environmental and natural resources legislation according to their particular setting.  
These specific norms refer to projects that can involve: 
 
·
cutting trees in or near forested areas; 
·
construction activities in or near wetlands; 
·
activities which imply impacts on local fauna; 
·
land use plans imply additional restrictions on subproject location; 
·
water rights must be available for all water supply systems; 
·
wastewater treatment plants entail additional health permits; 
·
projects near cultural property sites follow specific legislations; and 
·
construction activities require permits for burrow pits, quarries and extraction of river 
materials. 
 
Based on the strong legal and policy environment, and the Government's commitment to 
addressing environmental and social impacts, Chile is a strong candidate for making use of the 
country's own systems and gradually reducing the prescriptive approach to safeguards in Bank-
funded operations.  This is expected to bring about a more sustainable and consistent approach to 
safeguards at the country level, with reduced transaction costs and improved quality and 
consistency in individual operations. 
Page  8
8. Contact point 
Contact: Jordan Z. Schwartz 
Title: Senior Infrastructure Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-0493 
Fax:  
Email: Jschwartz3@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
