Document of
the World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7391 SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 75.7 MILLION
(US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORA
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
August 22, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                       CFAF 719 (as of August 22, 2000)
GOVERNMENT FIScAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONOYMS
AfDB                     African Development Bank
AGETIP                   Agence d'execution des travaux d'interet public (Public Works and
Employment Agency)
AOF                      Afrique Occidentale Fran,aise (French West Africa)
BCEAO                    Banque Centrale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CAPAS                    Coordinated African Programme of Assistance on Services
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CFA                      Communaute Financibre Africaine
CFAF                     CFA Franc
DSA                      Debt Sustainability Analysis
ESAF                     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                       European Union
FF                       French Franc
FIAS                     Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                     Highly Indebted Poor Cbuntries
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                      International Development Association
IFC                      International Finance Corporation
IHSDP                    Integrated Health Sector Development Program
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
IMS                      Investment Marketing Services
NHDP                     National Health Development Program
NPV                      Net Present Value
PDS                      Parti democratique senegalais (Senegalese Democratic Party)
PNLP                     Programme national de lutte contre la pauvrete (National Poverty
Alleviation Program)
PRGF                     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RER                      real exchange rate
QEFA                     Quality Education for All
SAL                      Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR                      Societe africaine de raffmage (National Oil Refinery)
SDR                      Standard Drawing Rights
SECAL                    Sector Adjustment Loan
TCI                      Compensatory Import Levy
TDP                      Temporary Protection Surtax
TRCC                     Trade Reform and Adjustment Credit
VAT                      Value Added Tax
WAMU                     West African Monetary Union
WAEMU                    West African Economic and Monetary Union
WBI                      World Bank Institute
Vice President             Callisto Madavo
Country Director           Cadman Mills (Acting)
Sector Manager             Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader           Nancy Benjamin



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
C REDIT SUMMARY                   ..........................I
I. INTRODUCTION.I
11. THE   COUNTRY CONTEXT ..........................I
A. GENERAL BACKGROUND.I
B.   POLITICAL BACKGROUND .........................2.....2
C. THE ECONOMY..3
C. 1I. Past Economic Performance  , .....3
C.2. Recent Economic Developments.,3
C.3. External Debt ............................................. , ...5
Ill. SENEGAL'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ................................... S5
A. GENERAL BACKGROUND.5
B. COMPONENTS.5
A.   S        OCIAL DEVELOPMENT .................................................. ..        .        7
C.l. Poverty.7
C,2. Education.7
C.3 . Health                                                                                  7
C.4. Fiscal Gap and Financing of the Adjustment Program                                       8
IV.   THE  PROPOSED TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT................................................................9
A. OBJECTIVES.9
Bl. BACKGROUND.9
C.   LINK TO THE CAS, POVE RTY IMPACT ANDLO  ...............................................RIA....11l
C).          Fisca     TRADE AND  Fia COMEIIVNgS ofh A jsmen    Program  ............................................... zzvs*.. **z*.. P<|>.*4.*i>D@.ow@j...........................
DV.  THE POOE TRADE              RFR AND COMPETITIVENESS REFORM........PROGRAM.........12..
E.   PROGRAMCOMPON ENTS1 ..2,,.................9
F.   CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION .................                                            13
F.I. Conditions of Tranche Release ..............                                            14
F.2. Conditions for Second Tranche Release ..............                                    14
F.2. 1.   General Conditions .................................................4.................... .......  14
F.2.2.   Specific Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche .14
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .16
A. PAST ADJUSTMENT LOANS.16
B. THEEPORTFOLIO.17
C. IFC AND MIGA.17
Vl. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS..18
VIl. R        ECOMMENDATION ......................                                                      18
ANNEXES
A.  Poverty and Social Development Indicators
B.  Key Economic Indicators
C.  Status of Bank Group Operations
D.  Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
E.  Policy Matrix
F.  Senegal at a Glance
G.  Govemment Letter of Development Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Senegal
Amount:           SDR 75.7 million (US$100 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Program
Objectives:       The proposed Trade Reform and Competitiveness Credit (TRCC) is a key
instrument of the Bank's strategy as identified in the 1997 CAS to aid the
Government in regional integration, maintaining macroeconomic stability,
and promoting private sector development. The objectives of this credit
are to improve the competitiveness of the Senegalese economy by
liberalizing trade, facilitating trade and tax procedures, and supporting
regulatory programs that promote competitive pricing of public utility
inputs to the productive sector. This adjustment program supports the
Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) which
incorporates a number of social sector targets and a commitment to
promote growth and employment through development of the private
sector. Given the temporary revenue shortfall caused by the sequenced
introduction of tariff and tax reforms, the proposed credit aims to provide
budget support to ensure that this shortfall not lead to disruptions in social
sector programs, and to support institutional reforms that will reduce
administrative burdens on the private sector.
Credit
Description:      In the interest of integrating Senegal more into the regional and
international economies while improving the private sector environment,
the Government has cut tariffs, reformed the VAT, and has committed to
reform its customs and tax administration. The reform program also aims
to improve competitiveness by supporting regulatory programs that
promote competitive pricing of public utility inputs to the productive
sector. The first tranche of the proposed two-tranche operation would help
finance implementation of the tariff and tax reform, adjustments in
customs and tax procedures, and the establishment of performance criteria
for these reforms. The proposed second tranche would continue to support
an adjustment program establishing full data links between the customs
and tax departments with single taxpayer dossier, demonstrating progress
on published performance criteria, and developing the legislative
framework defining the governing principles of the regulatory system for
public utilities and infrastructure.



ii
Benefits:          The trade liberalization and proposed institutional reforms will reduce
costs, improve competitiveness, and reduce obstacles that hinder the
private sector and discourage foreign investors.  In the IPRSP, the
Government has centered its strategy for poverty reduction on expansion
of the private sector, and has committed to reduce unemployment in
advance of the Completion Point and presentation of its PRSP. Further,
by helping to finance a temporary revenue shortfall due to trade
liberalization, public spending in the social sectors can be maintained to
meet IPRSP targets.
Risks:             The proposed credit is subject to two risks:  (i) Several of the
competitiveness measures rely on a single, integrated modernization plan
for Government data systems which could encounter difficulties in
implementation; and (ii) Some economic entities may try to regain import
protection they have lost. Factors that mitigate these risks include: (a) the
fact that integrated customs and tax information systems have been
successfully installed in a number of developing countries; and (b) the
regional obligations of WAEMU members restrict their recourse to
increasing import protection, and the authorities' use of public awareness
to build support for the measures would help withstand pressure from
interest groups seeking a reversal.
Project
Appraisal
Document:          There is no separate project appraisal document.
Estimated
Disbursements:     A first tranche of SDR 37.85 million (US$50 million equivalent) will be
disbursed at Credit effectiveness.  A second tranche of US$50 million
equivalent will be disbursed once specified conditions have been met.
Financing
Plan:              100% IDA Financing.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Trade
Reform and Competitiveness Credit (TRCC) to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 75.7 million
(US$ 100 million equivalent). The credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
and a 10-year grace period. The Government is in discussions with the African Development
Bank (AfDB) regarding the possibility of AfDB cofinancing of this adjustment program, which
would add to the total amount of financing.
2.    The TRCC would finance an adjustment reform program that supports the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP). The
program, which promotes trade liberalization along with the simplification of trade and tax
procedures and more competitive prices for utility inputs, will improve competitiveness and
create a more attractive environment for the private sector and for foreign investment.
IT. THE COUNTRY CONTEXT
A. GENERAL BACKGROUND
3.    Senegal is a small, semi-arid Sahelian nation with limited natural resource endowments.
The country's development prospects are constrained by handicaps such as scarce rainfall and
land availability. Droughts are recurrent due to the southward shift of the 400 mms isohyet.
About half of the country receives less than 400 mm of rainfall per year, which is the minimum
required for rainfed crops. This rainfall pattern is common to most Sahelian countries and is
linked to global factors over which there is little control. One-fifth of the land was considered
arable in the second half of the 1980s, but as a result of the rainfall pattern and demographic
pressure the availability of high quality land is becoming more acute. Senegal's population of
about 9 million is growing at a high rate of 2.9 percent per year, contributing to forest cover loss.
This is detrimental to soil fertility, which is estimated to be declining by 3 to 5% a year, while
forestry resources are decreasing by 1.2% a year. Other adverse environmental factors include
the salinization of agricultural land in low-lying coastal areas.
4.    Although Senegal's hostile natural environment and high demographic pressure strongly
indicated open economic polices as the key solution for the country, the country pursued until
1994 inward-looking policies that maintained its economic growth rate (2.3 percent average
annual GDP growth rate from 1960-1993) below the population growth rate (2.6 percent annual
average over the same period). While Senegal has been experiencing sustained strong growth
since 1994, its gross domestic product was US$4.8 billion in 1999, equivalent to a per capita



2
of about US$520, placing Senegal in the low-income country group. Senegal's social indicators
still compare poorly to other Sub-Saharan African countries. And yet, the country has advantages
including a strategic location as the closest point of Africa to America, a proximity with Europe,
and all its western part bordered by the Atlantic Ocean. But this potential is yet to be realized.
5.   In 1994 two major events took place simultaneously, dramatically changing the general
picture described above: a major devaluation of the local currency and the decision by Senegal
and the seven other country-members of WAMU (the West African Monetary Union) to create a
customs union. The devaluation provided a window of opportunity to implement far-reaching
trade reforms. With a Common External Tariff (CET) in place since January 2000, Senegal has
its lowest tariff ever which gives the country a unique chance to improve the overall efficiency of
its economy and boost exports. The purpose of the proposed TRCC is to assist the country to
capture all the benefits of these positive changes while mitigating potential transitional costs.
B.   POLITICAL BACKGROUND
6.    For many years, Senegal has enjoyed a reputation of being a rather sophisticated country.
Dakar's legacy at independence in 1960 as the capital of the former Afrique Occidentale
Fran,aise (AOF) colony included a relatively well-educated elite and a good infrastructure base.
Other key features supporting this reputation include the country's political stability, a relatively
independent judiciary, general respect for human rights, and a dynamic and independent critical
press. The only major concern has been a separatist group, the Democratic Force Movement of
the Casamance (MFDC), which has claimed the independence of the southern region of the
country since 1983. Senegal is the only cotmtry in West Africa, which has never experienced a
military coup. The first president, Leopold Sedar Senghor, was the first African head of state to
voluntarily leave office before the end of his term. His successor, Abdou Diouf, authorized
unlimited political parties and private media at a time when democracy was not common in
Africa. Under the leadership of President I)iouf, Senegal was also the first African country to
engage in economic reforms sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF.
7.    However, increasing political openness throughout Africa and the country's poor
irmplementation of its economic reform program discounted Senegal's image considerably in the
1990s. In addition, the unbroken rule of the Socialist Party since independence in 1960 came to
be at odds with positive political developments in other regions of Africa. This fueled political
opposition, and the outcomes of legislative and presidential elections - favorable to the Socialist
Party - were violently contested in 1988, 1993, and 1998, as it became clear that the majority of
urban citizens were in favor of the opposition.
8.    During presidential elections held on February 28, 2000, a large coalition of parties -
under the slogan Sopi (change in Wolof) and the leadership of Abdoulaye Wade of the
Senegalese Democratic Party (PDS) - forced the ruling Socialist Party to a first-ever second
round. Mr. Wade ultimately defeated President Diouf. The peaceful transition that concluded
the electoral process helped Senegal improve its profile greatly throughout Africa and on the
larger international stage. At the same time, the new President faces daunting challenges in
satisfying the urgent needs expressed by the majority of Senegalese while maintaining



3
macroeconomic balances. A new government was put in place in April 2000 and legislative
elections are scheduled for 2001.
C.   THE ECONOMY
C.1. Past Economic Performance
9.    At independence in 1960, Senegal inherited a relatively well-developed economy, with
adequate productive capacity and significant physical and social infrastructure. Between 1974
and 1978, a combination of good rainfall and high world prices for groundnuts and phosphates
led to a short-lived export boom which fueled high levels of public spending. When the boom
ended after 1978 as a result of recurrent droughts and a substantial deterioration in the terms of
trade, the Government turned to heavy borrowing to maintain past spending levels, thus creating
significant macroeconomic imbalances. By 1981, the fiscal and the current account deficit
reached 12.5 and 27.5 percent of GDP, respectively, and the inflation rate soared at 12 percent.
The first attempts to correct the imbalances were made very difficult by Senegal's membership in
the CFA Franc Zone, which requires unanimous agreement on action by all members and France
before any change to the parity of the common currency. The CFA Franc had been pegged to the
French Franc since 1946 at a fixed rate of CFAF50 for FF1. To improve its competitiveness,
Senegal was only able to resort to difficult deflationary policies by reducing aggregate demand.
However, the appreciation of the French Franc in the mid-1980s and the large real depreciation
achieved by many competitor countries and trade partners since 1985-86, combined with
negative terms of trade shocks, led to an increasing overvaluation of Senegal's real exchange rate.
The limits of the internal adjustment strategies become increasingly obvious, although in a last
attempt Senegal adopted several measures in August 1993 to deepen the deflationary policies,
including a 15% cut in public sector wages. Inflation was low at -0.7 percent in 1993 resulting
in a real exchange rate (RER) depreciation of 3.4 percent, which was still not enough to restore
the competitiveness of the economy, as the overvaluation of the CFAF was estimated at about 40
percent at end-1993. The overall fiscal deficit and the external current account deficit worsened,
with the fiscal balance (excluding grants) declining from a 0.2 percent surplus in 1991 to a 4.2
percent deficit in 1993, and the current account balance (excluding transfers) sliding from a
deficit of 8.3 percent of GDP to 10.3 percent over the same period. Substantial arrears were
accumulated, bringing the total stock of arrears to a record level of 13.8 percent of GDP. The
economic growth rate was -2.2 percent in 1993, representing a decrease of per capita income of
about 5 percent. By this point, it had become clear that Senegal, along with the other WAMU
countries, had reached a deadlock, and they decided to change the parity of the CFAF from 50
CFAF/FF to 100 CFAF/FF as of January 12, 1994.
C.2. Recent Economic Developments
10.   The devaluation of the CFAF in 1994 represented a major step towards launching a broad
development agenda aimed at accelerating growth. This agenda includes fiscal and monetary
stability and structural reforms aimed at liberalizing the economy, fostering private sector
development, and supporting social sector development. The policy reforms pursued since early



4
1994 have led to a marked recovery of economic activity and a significant improvement in
Senegal's financial position.
11.   Real Economy. Average real GDP growth between 1995 and 1999 was 5.2 percent. This
is the first sustained increase in average per capita growth since the 1960s.  The average
performance masks notable differences between the sectors, from 1.7 percent in the rural sector,
to 5.6 percent in the services, and a remarkable 7.5 percent in the industry sector. Growth
performance in the rural sector was lower due to weather-related conditions, and to some extent
to sub-optimal policies. The industrial sector performed well as renewed competitiveness
resulted in the recovery of exports in the chemical and fishing industries, as well as strong
activity in the import substitution sectors.
12.   Fiscal Development.  To preserve the depreciation of the real exchange rate, the
Senegalese authorities have pursued control of aggregate demand through a strict budget stance.
Nominal revenue increased by 68 percent between 1994 and 1999, while nominal expenditures
and net lending increased by 44 percent over the same period. As a result, Senegal's overall
fiscal deficit, on a cornmitment basis and excluding grants, was brought down from 6.1 percent
of GDP in 1994 to 3.5 percent in 1999. All domestic and external arrears were cleared in 1994
and 1995, and were not reconstituted. The share of wages and salaries in total expenditures and
net lending declined from 41.4 percent in 1993 to 27.3 percent in 1999.
13.   Monetary Policy and Prices. Prudent monetary policy has been pursued at the regional
level by BCEAO through indirect instruments. The implementation of sound monetary policies
in addition to the strict fiscal stance has helped bring inflation under control. Average inflation
was lowered from 32.1 percent in 1994 to its pre-devaluation level of about 2 percent since 1997.
14.   External Sector Developments. Effective control of inflation has enabled Senegal to
achieve a 35 percent depreciation of its real exchange rate (RER). Continuous good performance
on the inflation front has preserved this depreciation so far, leading to a substantial improvement
in the competitiveness of the economy. The average annual appreciation of the RER since 1994
has been limited to 1.2 percent. The improvement in competitiveness led to significant growth in
exports of fish, groundnut products, phosphates, and tourism services. Although import levels
recovered following the devaluation, the external current account deficit, excluding grants,
improved in 1999 to -7.3 percent compared to -9.2 percent in 1994.
15.   Recent developments in the external sector have been marked by a rise in petroleum
prices, which increased by about 20 percent in 1999. The share of oil products in imported
goods increased from 12.6 percent in 1998 to 15.2 in 1999. The evolution of petroleum prices
partly explained the 1I.1 percent decrease in the terms of trade in 1999. In addition to oil prices,
Senegal will need to monitor the development of the Euro currency as it will determine the path
of-its RER and the competitiveness of the economy. Indeed, given the country's strong record on
the inflation front, movements of the Senegal RER will largely depend on the evolution of the
euro, to which the CFAF has been pegged since January 1999 at a fixed rate of CFAF 655.96.
As an example of these changed circumstances, it will suffice to note that when the French Franc
appreciated against the dollar in 1993, Senegal's RER appreciated by 3.2 percent, but when the
Euro depreciated in 1999, Senegal's RER depreciated by 2.0 percent.



5
C.3. External Debt
16.  In June 2000, the Boards of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank
Group approved a comprehensive debt reduction package for Senegal under the enhanced
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. The decision followed a Debt Sustainability
Analysis (DSA) undertaken during the period November 1999 to January 2000 which indicated
that Senegal qualified under both fiscal and openness criteria. At end-1998, the public and
publicly guaranteed external debt of Senegal was US$3.8 billion, with the present value of this
debt stock estimated at US$2.5 billion in end-1998 NPV terms, i.e., 305 percent of government
revenues or 162 percent of exports (averaged over 3 years). The total debt relief is estfmated at
US$452 million in NPV terms, of which US$259 million will be provided by multilateral
creditors.
17.   The following conditions are required to be met by Senegal to secure Bank and IMF
HIPC assistance: (i) completion of a full-fledged participatory PRSP satisfactory to the Bank
and the IMF; (ii) maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic environment; (iii) improvements
in the poverty database and monitoring capacity; (iv) promotion of universal primary education;
and (v) increasing health access. Detailed information on the DSA, the breakdown by creditors,
and the schedule of debt relief are presented in the HIPC Debt Initiative Decision Point
Document (IDA/R2000-103) dated June 2, 2000.
HI. SENEGAL'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. GENERAL BACKGROUND
18.   The devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 was part of a broader agenda to resume
economic growth and alleviate widespread poverty in Senegal. In that context, the Government
implemented several reforms aiming at maintaining macroeconomic balances, improving the
overall efficiency of the economy (trade and price liberalization, restructuring of the parapublic
sector), and human resource development. The program has been implemented with the support
of an Economic Recovery Credit, and three sectoral adjustment credits in the rural sector, the
energy sector, and the private sector. The Government's program received IMF support through
a stand-by operation and two ESAFs. The Bank also continues to support the reform program
through two major investment operations in the education and health sectors.
B. COMPONENTS
19.   Trade and tax reform: In the aftermath of the devaluation, the Government
implemented trade reform, with tariffs lowered from a pre-reform bracket of 6-124 percent to one
of 5-50 percent. Export subsidies were eliminated. A simplification of the VAT took place as
well, with the number of categories reduced from six to three. VAT rates were also reduced from
a pre-reform range of 0-34 percent to a new range of 0-20 percent.
20.   Most of the quantitative restrictions on imports of certain goods were lifted during 1994-
1996 and replaced by temporary import surcharges. Two prior authorizations remain, for



6
imports of gold (for monetary policy purposes), and for second-hand clothing (for health
reasons).
21.  In April 1998, Senegal anticipated WAEMU's (West African Economic and Monetary
Union) first step toward the Common External Tariff, by introducing a four-tier external tariff
structure in the range of 5-30 percent, (including the customs stamp), down from a pre-reform
level of 5-50 percent.
22.   Price liberalization and competition: In 1994, the prices of 24 goods and services -
estimated to represent about 12 percent of GDP - were still subject to controls. Between 1994
and 1995, the Government liberalized the prices of 13 products accounting for about 9 percent of
GDP. The Government maintained control on the 11 remaining products deemed essential. The
privileges granted to public and private enterprises such as monopolies, tax exemptions, and
exceptional tariff protection were all lifted in 1994-1995, with the exception of the special
agreement of the oil refinery company, which terminated in 1998 in the context of the Energy
SECAL. However, some of the companies under the previous special agreement regime still
enjoy a high level of protection through tariff surcharges and reference import prices (e.g. sugar).
The authorities freed entries to all professions but 28 with potential adverse impact on public
health or security. Under the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit, the Government liberalized
domestic marketing and pricing of all agricultural products, especially rice, at both producer and
consumer levels, and privatized the processing of rice.
23.   Private sector competitiveness: The Government modified the labor code in 1994 to
introduce more flexibility in the labor market through the removal of the prior approval before
layoffs due to economic hardship or internal restructuring. The monopoly of the Bureau de Main-
d'Oeuvre Portuaire (BMOP) on the hiring of longshoremen was also lifted in 1994. Maritime
transportation costs were reduced by terminating the monopoly of Conseil Senegalais de
Navigation Maritime (COSENAM) - a parastatal - on shipping activities. The Government also
addressed the issues of the high utility costs in Senegal by allowing private sector participation in
these sectors. The management of the water company was privatized in 1997, the telephone
company.in 1998, and the power company in 1999.
24.   Energy sector: The cost, quality, and availability of energy were major issues in Senegal,
and serious impediments to the overall competitiveness of the economy. The Government
liberalized the procurement, import, transport, and distribution of petroleum products in 1998. To
allow the refinery company (SAR) to adjust to the new environment, the authorities put in place
a temporary and declining import surtax on refined products. Petroleum prices were liberalized,
adjusting to the fluctuation of international prices. However, soaring international prices led the
Government in April 2000 to reintroduce temporary price controls on the petroleum products.
The Government also privatized the public power company in 1999. The production and
distribution of electricity were liberalized by amending the electricity code.



7
C.   SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
25.   The social sectors are at the center of the Government's IPRSP The two main planks of
the IPRSP are to increase growth by improving the environment for the private sector, and to
improve the efficiency of Government programs in the social sectors. During the transition to
liberalized trade, the proposed credit will help maintain financing for social sector programs.
Specific spending targets for the social sectors are given in the IPRSP, and performance
benchmarks in health, education, and poverty reduction comprise the policy matrix included in
the interim document.
C.1.  Poverty
26.   A survey implemented in 1994-1995 indicated that over 58 percent of households are
living below the poverty threshold defined in terms of a daily minimum caloric intake of 2400
calories per adult. As the Government has become increasingly aware of the seriousness of the
problem, it first launched emergency programs such as the AGETIP projects and the Community
Nutrition Project in 1994-1995. The Government subsequently prepared in December 1997 a
National Poverty Alleviation Program (PNLP). Key objectives of the PNLP are the promotion of
income-generating activities; increased access to social services; an effective information and
monitoring system on living standards; and the strengthening of capacities at the grassroots level.
Based on this program, the Government developed a comprehensive IPRSP whose first task
outlined is an update of the poverty profile to guide the preparation of a full-fledged PRSP by
December 2001.
C.2. Education
27.   A ten-year education program was adopted in 1999 with the ultimate objective of
reaching universal primary education by the year 2008. A Quality Education for All (QEFA)
Project will support the implementation of the first three years of the ten-year program. Under
QEFA, the share of basic education in the total education budget would be raised to 44 percent
by 2000 from its current level of 36 percent. The Government also committed itself to hire 2000
primary school teachers annually for at least the next three years. Achieving these objectives will
require a sustainable teacher salary plan and control of spending in post-primary levels of
education. Reforms in higher education produced significant changes in 1994 such as cost
recovery for housing and meals before being reversed in 1997. The Government is working to
close the gender gap in the education sector by 2010, while promoting the decentralization of the
sector.
C.3. Health
28.  In 1997, the Government adopted a ten-year National Health Development Plan (NHDP)
with the objectives of increasing access to quality health care; improving the health system's
financing and management; and reducing the population growth rate through improvement in the
management and delivery of reproductive health services. A Sectoral Investment Program, the
Integrated Health Sector Development Program (IHSDP), has been designed to cover the first



8
years of the NHDP. The authorities have shown their commitment to the success of the program
by regularly increasing the budget appropriations for the health sector. Recruitment of 250 new
employees has been in effect since 1998 and it is expected that the share of the health sector in
the total recurrent budget will reach 9 percent by 2002, up from a 6 percent level in 1996.
C.4. Fiscal Gap and Financing of the Adjustment Program
:29.    The projection of revenue for 2000 is CFAF 549.6 billion. Total expenditures and net
lending are estimated at CFAF 686.5 billion. The overall fiscal deficit on a commitment basis
and excluding grants is thus CFAF 136.9 billion. As there are no arrears and expected grants
amount to CFAF 84.7 billion, the overall fiscal deficit on a cash basis including grants is CFAF
:52.2 billion. Taking into account amortization in an amount of CFAF 64.2 billion, net payment
to the domestic economy of CFAF 58.3 billion (payment to the Central Bank)', and project
assistance of CFAF 90 billion, a gap of CFAF 84.7 billion remains. Budgetary assistance of
CFAF 46.3 billion has already been identified. The resulting residual gap is CFAF 38.4 billion,
equivalent to US$63.5 million. The corresponding figures for external financing needs from the
balance of payments are in Table 1.
TABLE 1
EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS AND RESOURCES
(in millions of US$)
1998      1999      2000      2001       2002
Total Requirements               500.8      493.9     599.9     551.3      497.9
Current account deficit before official transfers  322.1  352.7  340.2     310.9     321.4
Debt amortization               100.7      87.5      99.0      102.9      108.8
IMF repayments                  60.2      32.6       23.7      29.4      29.2
Change in external arrears          4.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Change in net foreign assets         13.1      21.1      136.9     108.0      38.5
Total Resources                 500.8     493.9     536.4      491.3     467.9
Official gross transfers          242.2     185.0      194.5     197.3     200.5
Long term public loan             00.6      131.2      220.9     164.4     167.1
Private capital                 9.5      158.2      81.4      89.8      100.3
Debt relief                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0,0        0.0
Use of IMF resources              48.4       19.5      39.6      39.8       0.0
Other exceptional financing          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing gap                   0.0       0.0       63.5      60.0       30.0
Source: Staff estimates
I According to WAEMU convergence targets, members should eliminate outstanding balances to the Central Bank by end-200 1.



9
IV. THE PROPOSED TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS. CREDIT
A. OBJECTIVES
30.   The objectives of this credit are to improve the competitiveness of the Senegalese
economy by liberalizing trade, facilitating trade and tax procedures, and supporting regulatory
programs that promote competitive pricing of public utility inputs to the productive sector. This
adjustment program supports the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy, which
incorporates a number of social sector targets and a commitment to promote growth and
employment through development of the private sector. Given the temporary revenue shortfall
caused by the sequenced introduction of tariff and tax reforms, the proposed credit aims to
provide budget support to ensure that this shortfall will not lead to disruptions in social sector
programs, and to support institutional reforms that will reduce administrative burdens on the
private sector.
B. BACKGROUND
31.   On January 1, 2000 Senegal implemented the last step of the WAEMU Common External
Tariff (CET) reform, reducing the maximum import tax from 65 percent to 20 percent, reducing
seven tariff categories to four, combining the customs and fiscal duties, and reducing the
statistical tax from five percent (with various exceptions) to one percent on all imports. (See
Tables 2 through 4, below) Tariffs on goods from within the region have been eliminated.
WAEMU members can apply for three types of safeguard protection measures: a temporary
protection surtax (TDP) which declines progressively from a maximum of 20 percent to zero by
2003; a compensatory import levy (TCI) which protects against large fluctuations in world
prices; and reference prices, or administratively set customs values. Use of reference prices
requires that WAEMU submit a regional list of products in application for a WTO waiver. To
date, no definite list has been submitted. Further, WAEMU members are not required to impose
safeguard measures requested by other members. Rather, rules of origin can be applied in those
cases where safeguard measures differ across countries.
32.   Senegal's recourse to WAEMU-authorized safeguard protection measures has been
limited. It has applied for and received WAEMU approval for TCI on various sugar products.
An application to WAEMU for eligibility of rice for TCI is still under consideration.
Nevertheless, the TCI on rice should allow Senegal to remove the current rice import surtax.
TDP remains on tobacco; however, the Government has now renounced a previously submitted
and WAEMU-approved request for TDP on a dozen product categories. Senegal also previously
used a tariff discounting mechanism (precisions tarifaires) on a number of goods, differentiating
tariff rates by end use. These were eliminated between September and December 1999.



10
Table 2
External Tariff Reform and New Tax Measures
Tariff and Tax Structure until April 1998
Categories                                               Customs      Fiscal     Customs      Total
duty        duty       stamp
Category 1 A: Social, cultural, and scientific products; inputs   0   0          5            0
for agricultural sector.
Category 1 B :Cereals                                    10           0          5            15
Category 11: Equipment; raw materials and input for industries. 10    0          5            15
Category III A: Consumer goods not produced locally      10           20         5            35
Category III B: Manufactured goods competing with locally    10       30         5            45.
produced goods
Category IV A: Consumer goods with high revenue incidence   10        30         5            45
Category IV B: Luxury goods                              10           50         5            65
Table 3
Tariff and Tax structure from April 1998 to December 1999 - WAEMU reform
Customs     Customs       Total
Categories                                               duty         stamp
Category I : Priority products (drugs, medical equipment,  0          5             5
inputs for the pharmaceutical and medical industries, cultural
products); computers, communication technology products.
Category 2 :Essential goods (mainly cereals);            5            5             10
Vehicles for public transportation and heavy goods vehicles;
Raw materials.
Category 3: Semi-finished products                       10           5             15
Category 4 Consumer goods; private vehicle.              25           5             30
Table 4
WAEMU Common External Tariff after January 1', 2000.
Categories                                                      CET    Statistical Total
tax
Category 1: Priority products (drugs, medical equipment, inputs for the  0  1      1
pharmaceutical and medical industries, cultural products); computers,
communication technology products, butane and kerosene.
Category 2 :Essential goods (mainly cereals), Utility vehicles ; Raw  5  1         6
materials; Crude oil.
Category 3: Semi-finished products; other industrial inputs; diesel and   10  1    Il
fuel oil
Category 4 Consumer goods; private vehicle; equipment goods     20       1         21
produced locally; other refined petroleum products.
Source: Senegalese authorities



I1
33.   WAEMU members are also required to implement a uniform Value Added Tax (VAT)
within the range of 16 to 19 percent, and to raise 16 percent of GDP in fiscal revenues. Senegal
has chosen to set a VAT rate of 18 percent, compared to the current structure, which taxes most
transactions at 20 percent and some at 10 percent. Thus under the new regime, the VAT rate will
be reduced on most products and increased on some, while structural improvements in the
efficiency of tax administration should help expand the tax base.
34.   The fiscal revenue losses from tariff reform are due to be recovered through these reforms
in the VAT, but only after several months delay, as the new VAT will be in place only at the end
of September 2000. Thus for 2000 the tariff reductions have been estimated to reduce fiscal
revenues by about one percent of GDP. In other respects, Senegal's fiscal balances are in line
with IMF targets; revenues as a share of GDP exceeded WAEMU standards and IMF program
levels in 1999 while expenditures were below target. Thus budgetary support can be expected to
help maintain the poverty fighting agenda as originally conceived for 2000 and to fund the
institutional reforms that will remove obstacles hindering the private sector and foreign
investment.
35.   The Government has specified in its Letter of Intent that any remaining financing gap will
result in commensurate spending reductions while fiscal balance targets are maintained.
Additional funds beyond spending targets would be used to satisfy regional obligations to
reduced statutory advances from the central bank.
C. LINK TO THE CAS, POVERTY IMPACT AND RATIONALE
36.   The proposed credit supports specific CAS goals: regional integration, maintaining
macroeconomic stability and private sector development. These same goals have been
expressed in Senegal's poverty reduction strategy and included in the IPRSP.
37.   Senegal will be keeping its obligations as a member of WAEMU by implementing the
commonly agreed tariff and tax reforms. These regional obligations also serve to prohibit tariff
increases, phase out tariff surcharges, and limit applications of other safeguard protection
measures. Further, regional fiscal requirements - revenue targets, non-negative fiscal balance,
reducing internal and external debt by levels and by ratios to GDP - will help ensure that VAT
reforms are implemented promptly. By providing financing for a temporary fiscal gap and for
implementing changes in tariff and tax administration, the proposed credit will support the fiscal
adjustment needed for maintaining macroeconomic stability.
38.   Development of new employment through the promotion of the private sector is at the
center of Senegal's poverty fighting strategy. Among the greatest obstacles facing the local
private sector are the lengthy and cumbersome procedures for approving new investments and
imports, and lack of transparency in these requirements. Such obstacles have been identified in a
1997 World Bank report Senegal: The Challenge of International Integration and in a 1999
Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) report. Both studies noted, for example, that the
length of time for imported goods to clear the port in Dakar were substantially longer than in the
ports of neighboring countries. A second major obstacle to greater international competitiveness,
as noted in the 1997 report, was the unusually high prices charged for public utility inputs to the



12
productive sector, compared to neighboring countries. The presence of regulations hindering
competition in some services was also noted as an obstacle to trade and investment in a study
prepared under the Coordinated African Programme of Assistance on Services (CAPAS). The
Government has noted in its IPRSP the importance of an improved regulatory environment for
economic growth, and it has produced an action plan for undertaking recommendations from the
FIAS report.
'39.   Trade liberalization, along with the simplification of trade and tax procedures and more
competitive prices for utility inputs will improve competitiveness and make a more attractive
environment for the private sector and for foreign investment.
D. THE TRADE AND COMPETITIVENESS REFORM PROGRAM
40.   The Government's institutional reform program centers around a plan for modernization
and electronic information pooling among the customs, tax, and treasury branches of the
Ministry of Finance. These directorates, and even offices within these directorates, have
operational procedures, which work in isolation, requiring extensive and duplicate paperwork
across the different offices. The Ministry of Finance now plans to create a single electronic
dossier for each taxpayer, where the same set of information can be accessed by all three
branches. This arrangement will create a crucial link between the customs and tax departments,
ensuring that all imports cleared by customs are simultaneously entered and handled in the VAT
Ibase. The basic characteristics of the taxpayer, exemptions qualified for, and taxes paid will be
retrievable by all participants in the system and will not need to be repeatedly demonstrated by
the taxpayer.
41.   Both the customs and tax departments have sought the advice of Trade Point, a mixed
public/private entity that has pioneered the implementation of electronic clearing of trade
documents, and of the private sector in planning this new system. In line with structural
measures in Senegal's PRGF program, the tax department has committed to set up a large-
taxpayer unit and restructure the department along functional lines and to generalize the use of a
single tax identification number in all revenue collecting agencies by 2001.
42.   Further, the Government has developed a plan to improve the efficiency and the expertise
with which it regulates public and recently privatized utilities. An ongoing Country Framework
Report and upcoming WBI seminars will provide essential information and technical assistance.
FIAS is assisting the Government in formulating its red-tape alleviation program and the Bank
group (IDA and MIGA) may provide additional assistance for implementation.
E.   PROGRAM COMPONENTS
43.   Trade liberalization: The CET has been implemented and pr&cisions tarifaires have
been removed. The.government has already renounced the regionally approved list of goods for
TDP. It is committed under its IPRSP to minimize all other import protection measures before
reaching Completion Point in its debt relief program.



13
44.   Trade facilitation: The customs department plans to reduce the number and length of
procedures required for customs clearance. It will also implement an electronic information-
sharing plan connecting data bases among the customs offices and among the customs, tax, and
treasury departments, as well as with Trade Point. Further, with the full commitment of the
Finance Minister, the customs department will establish specific performance criteria regarding
the length of time for goods to pass through the port, and will monitor and publicize performance
on these criteria. The Government will undertake these reforms by the end of 2000 and plans to
show reductions in customs processing time by the end of 2001.
45.   Tax facilitation: The tax department plans to increase the tax base, reduce the nuimber of
tax exemptions and related procedures, and introduce a single taxpayer dossier. With the new
electronic information-sharing system, the tax department expects to be able to audit their own
services, improve transparency, and improve taxpayer services, such as by reducing the amount
of time required to settle disputes. The tax department also plans to develop performance criteria
along these lines and publicize results as a way to attract new investors. These reforms are
scheduled to be implemented during 2001.
46.   Regulatory reform: Over the next year, the Government intends to develop the
legislative framework defining the architecture of the regulatory system for the public utilities
and establishing an effective regulatory regime that is characterized by coherency, independence,
accountability, and transparency.
47.   Borrower commitment and ownership: These program components are expressed in a
detailed plan developed and produced entirely by the Government. The Minister of Finance has
issued a strong policy statement on modernization, data pooling and information sharing among
the customs, tax, and treasury departments, all of which are included in the Ministry of Finance.
The Ministry is committed to establishing and monitoring performance criteria in customs and
tax procedures designed to reduce obstacles for the private sector and attract foreign investment.
The Government is committed to improving governance and transparency in these areas.
Further, the Government has taken a number of early actions in the area of trade liberalization, as
noted above. The Minister of Finance is working with other Cabinet Ministers to sustain the
initiatives in the IPRSP and to reduce poverty. Moreover, he has appointed a committee,
including members from his office and from the customs, tax and treasury departments, to pilot
this adjustment program.
F.   CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
48.   Credit Amount and Financing. The Borrower will be the Republic of Senegal. The
proposed amount of IDA financing is US$100 million equivalent. This amount is considered
adequate to support the momentum of trade policy reforms in the Senegalese economy.



14
F.1.  Conditions of Tranche Release
49.   Conditions for Board Presentation. It was agreed with the Borrower that the Credit
would be presented to the Board when performance criteria for processing time in customs
clearance and performance criteria for improvement in tax services had been published by the
Republic of Senegal. These conditions for Board presentation have been met.
50.   Tranching. The credit will be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche in the amount
of US$50 million will be disbursed upon effectiveness. The second tranche will be disbursed
tupon compliance with conditions specified below. The second tranche, in the amount of US$50
million, is tied to progress in the adjustment program establishing full data links between the
customs and tax departments with single taxpayer dossier, demonstrating progress on published
performance criteria, and developing the legislative framework defining the governing principles
of the regulatory system for public utilities and infrastructure.
F.2.  Conditions for Second Tranche Release
F.2.1. General Conditions
51.   Before release of the second tranche, the Borrower will provide evidence that: (a) the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objective of
macroeconomic stability, as per indicators agreed with IDA; (b) import tariff reductions
implemented as of Credit effectiveness are not re-imposed through safeguard protection
ineasures; and (c) progress has been achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the program as
outlined in its Letter of Development Policy.
F.2.2. Specific Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche
52.   The TRCC second tranche will be released after the following specific conditions have
been complied with by the Borrower:
(i)   implementation of general use of a single taxpayer identification number system;
'ii)  implementation of a formal data link between customs and tax administrations that will
automatically include all imports in the VAT base;
(iii)  establishment of full electronic information sharing between the customs, tax, and
treasury departments;
(iv)   development of the legislative framework defining the architecture of the regulatory
system for the public utilities and establishing an effective regulatory regime that is
characterized by coherency, independence, accountability, and transparency.
.53.   Disbursements.  The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank.  Upon
notification of release for the tranche, proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the Association
in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the



15
Credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance goods or services in the standard negative
list), the Association will require the Borrower to refund the Credit Account.
54.   Auditing. The Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the account.
55.   Implementation and Monitoring.  The reform program under this credit will be
implemented by the Ministry of Finance. The Minister works with the other Cabinet Ministers to
implement the initiatives in the IPRSP and to coordinate efforts to reduce poverty. Further, he
has appointed a committee, including members from his office and from the customs, tax and
treasury departments, to undertake the technical work in this adjustment program. Technical
assistance in trade liberalization and trade facilitation has been offered by WBI and the African
Development Bank. IDA/PSD and WBI have offered technical assistance on regulatory reform,
and PSD will continue to monitor progress in the context of its privatization and technical
assistance operations. FIAS will continue to monitor implementation of recommendations from
the FIAS report.
56.   Since the 1994 devaluation, Senegal has established a solid track record of
macroeconomic stability and steadily improving fiscal conditions, erasing deficits and posting
recent surpluses. While Senegal needs to improve on linking public expenditures to program
objectives, and on expenditure monitoring, IDA has been supporting these improvements with a
strong dialogue on public expenditures. Senegal has adopted a revised procurement code, which
was accepted by the Bank in 1999. IDA will conduct a fiduciary assessment mission in late
September to agree on a baseline against which progress can be calibrated.
57.   The following steps for improving expenditure monitoring and control have been
identified. Based on a Public Expenditure Review in 1997-98, efforts in budgeting by objectives
are being brought to fruition in two sectors, with plans for expansion to other sectors. Progress
in budgeting by objectives will be monitored under the IMF-sponsored Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) program. Further, a new dialogue has begun on comprehensive
program-based budgeting in support of the upcoming PRSP. A public expenditure seminar took
place in June with plans to continue the work on program-based budgeting and measuring and
evaluating the effectiveness of expenditures. These budget improvements will be monitored in
the context of the tripartite dialogue on development of the PRSP.
58.   The program supported by the credit, although based on trade reformn, will in fact help to
improve transparency and good governance. A major advantage of the proposed informnation
sharing system is that it reduces the scope for information manipulation and makes corruption
more difficult once the number of parties with access to tax records is increased.
59.   The proposed Credit is expected to be released in two tranches, over a period of 12-18
months, and will follow the simplified IDA procedures for adjustment operations (February 8,
1996). IDA disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no
procurement requirements. In case the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes,
IDA will require the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent



16
undisbursed amount of the Credit. Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required,
IDA reserves the right to require audits at any time.
60.   Benefits. The trade liberalization and proposed institutional reforms will reduce costs,
improve competitiveness, and reduce obstacles that hinder the private sector and discourage
foreign investors. In the IPRSP, the Govermment has centered its strategy for poverty reduction
on expansion of the private sector, and has committed to reduce unemployment in advance of the
HIPC Completion Point and presentation of its PRSP. Further, by helping to finance a
temporary revenue shortfall due to trade liberalization, public spending in the social sectors can
be maintained to meet IPRSP targets.
61.   Risks. The proposed credit is subiect to two risks: (i) Several of the competitiveness
measures rely on a single, integrated modernization plan for Government data systems which
could encounter difficulties in implementation; and (ii) Some economic entities may try to regain
import protection they have lost. Factors that mitigate these risks include: (a) the fact that
integrated customs and tax information systems have been successfully installed in a number of
developing countries; and (b) the regional obligations of WAEMU members restrict their
recourse to increasing import protection.  Public awareness of the expected benefits and
population support for the required reforms will offset any pressures from selected industrialists
for a reversal.
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   PAST ADJUSTMENT LOANS
62.   The Government's reform effort has been supported since 1980 by 4 World Bank
Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), 5 Sectoral Adjustment Loans (SECALs - in the financial
sector, the transport sector, the agriculture sector, the private sector and the energy sector) and an
economic recovery credit. The performance of these operations has been uneven.
63.   Approved in 1981, SAL I was suspended shortly thereafter due to incomplete
implementation of the programs, and ultimately cancelled. Under SALs II and III (1986 and
1987), the economy was substantially liberalized and progress was made in investment planning
and programming and population policy. Both credits were released and disbursed in full.
64.   The design of SAL IV reflected several lessons leamed from previous adjustment
programs in Senegal. In particular there was greater reliance on up-front conditionalities. In
addition, SAL IV focused on relatively fewer areas than the previous SALs and supported a
limited number of critical actions. Overall the achievements of SAL IV fell short of the required
objectives. Although some progress was made in some areas, much of it was subsequently
eroded. The third tranche was postponed and then cancelled.
65.   Three lessons were leamed from SAL IV and overall adjustment implementation in
Senegal. First, the importance of dynamic leadership of policy reform should not be understated.
In the areas where leadership was weak, reforms made little headway. Govermment support for a
measure and public understanding of its importance need to be in place if the measure is to be
sustained. In Senegal, repeated effort at structural adjustment in the form of quick-disbursing



17
budgetary assistance has focused Government attention on the availability and release of these
funds at the expense of longer-tern development goals. Second, the complex nature of
macroeconomic adjustment operations placed substantial burdens on Senegal's administrative
capacity, and consequently, there was a recognized need to shift from fewer and more complex
operations to a series of specific and well-focused operations and conditionalities which should
not be amenable to interpretation. The design should also focus on the process of change itself by
addressing directly issues of ownership and consensus building. Third, although the design of the
previous adjustment programs improved over time, the implementation of the reforms had some
serious sequencing shortcomings because of the difficulty in implementing key measures. An
illustration was the attempt to implement a trade reform while the local currency was overvalued.
66.   These lessons explain the shift to sectoral adjustment operations beginning with the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Financial SECAL) in December 1989. The Financial
SECAL was a success, leading to a more active role by BCEAO in bank supervision and
monitoring, a substantial reform of credit policies, the liquidation of seven banks and the
restructuring of two others. The Transport Sector Adjustment Loan (Transport SECAL, 1991),
the Private Sector Competitiveness and Adjustment Credit (PASCO, 1995) and the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (AgSECAL, 1995) were also rated satisfactory.
B.   THE PORTFOLIO
67.   As of March 31, 2000, the World Bank had approved 87 projects for Senegal for a total
amount of about US$2.0 billion, consisting of 68 projects for IDA credits of US$1.9 billion, and
19 projects for IBRD loans of US$163.0 million. The current portfolio represents a commitment
value of about US$646.1 million with an undisbursed balance of about US$480.1 million. The
portfolio is composed of 17 projects in various sectors (agriculture, human resources--
population/health/nutrition/education, infrastructure and urban development, energy, water,
industry, and private sector development).  The quality of the portfolio has improved
significantly in recent years, although improvement is needed in the area of financial
accountability, specifically, audits/financial reporting and procurement.
C.   IFC AND MIGA
68.   As of March 31, 2000, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) had five active
investrnents totaling about US$26.2 million. They include two financial services; one fishery
project; one leather manufacturing operation; and one power project (the first independent power
project in Senegal). Two additional investments (power project and mining operation) were
approved in 1998 and one investment (cement industry) was approved in 1999; all three new
investments are expected to become effective this year.
69.   MIGA has not yet issued a guarantee in Senegal. However, Senegalese representatives
have participated in several Investment Marketing Services (IMS) in mining, tourism, capacity
building of investment promotion agencies, etc. The IMS newsletter routinely features articles on
investment prospects in Senegal.



18
VI. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
70.   The reform program supported by the proposed credit is consistent with the IMF's PRGF
program. Trade liberalization, full electronic data links between customs and tax operations,
reforms in customs and tax administration, and a single taxpayer identification system all
coordinate closely with objectives of the PRGF program.  Further, financing during the
adjustment period for trade liberalization should help the Government maintain social sector
spending as specified in the IPRSP, developed jointly among the Government, IMF, and the
World Bank.
71.  IDA staff have also collaborated closely with other major donors. Their respective
programs for aiding Senegal during the transition period after tariff reductions have been
discussed with officials from the EU and AfDB, and cofinancing of the adjustment program in
this proposed credit is under consideration by the AfDB. IDA staff have coordinated closely
with Senegal's other major donors in development of the last CAS and in the preparation and
cofinancing of sectoral operations.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
72.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
August 22, 2000
Attachments



ANNEX A
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
SENEGAL
POVERTY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
Latest single year              Same region/income group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75      1980-85      1993-98              Africa       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)               4.8          6A4           9.0              627.3        3,536.4
Growth rate (% annual average)                    2.9          2.8           2.3                2.2           1.4
Urban population (% of population)                 34.2         37.5          46.0               33.3          30.5
Total fertility rate (births per woman)             7.0          6.7           5.5                5.4           3.1
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                             ..
Urban headcount index                              ..
Rural headcount index                              ..           ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                                380          370          520                510            520
Consumer prce index (1995=100)                      29            71          106                128            136
Food prce index (1995=100)                           ..           71          102
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                            ..          ..          41.3
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)         ,,           ..           6.4
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)         ..          ..          48.2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                  ..           ..           2.6                1.5           1.3
Education (% of GNP)                              3.8           ..           3.7               4.1            3.2
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)            0.9          1.6
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                              ..           48           60                  ..            86
Male                                             ..           57           65                  ..            89
Female                                           ..           40           54                 ..             82
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                                           44           50
Urban                                            ..           63           82
Rural                                            ..           27           28
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                             ..          40           65                 58             80
DPT                                                ..           54           65                 53             82
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                 ..           ..           22
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                             42            46           52                 50             63
Male                                            39            44           51                 49             62
Female                                          44            48           54                 52             64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)                149           104           69                 92             68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)               239           173          121                151             92
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                    572           586          456                432            235
Female (per 1,000 population)                  489           516          385                383           208
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)                 ..           ..            ..
2000 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 3
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
SENEGAL
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                  100      100      100     100      100      100     100      100      100
Agriculture                            20.7    21.9    23.2    21.4    19.5    20.1    19.8    20.2    20.2
Industry                               23.1    23.9    25.4    25.7    27.0    28.4    29.3    30.5    31.1
Services                               56.2    54.2    51.4    52.9    53.4    51.5    50.9    49.4    48.7
Total Consumption                        88.1    88.9    87.2    87.7    87.2    87.4    86.4    85.2    84.8
Gross domestic fixed investment          16.1    14.7    16.3    18.0    18.2    18.8    19.0    19.3    19.6
Government investment                   5.0      4.4     6.4      6.4      6.4      6.5     6.6      6.8      6.6
Private investment                     13.6    12.3    12.1    11.6    12.1    12.3    12.4    12.6    13.0
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          34.9    34.5    34.1    34.0    33.0    32.6    33.5    33.7    33.9
Imports (GNFS)                          41.6    40.1    39.8    39.7    38.7    38.9    38.9    38.2    38.3
Gross domestic savings                   11.9    11.1    12.8    12.3    12.8    12.6    13.6    14.8    15.2
Gross national savingsc                  11.7    10.1    12.2    11.6    12.4    11.6    12.8    13.7    14.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  3642    4476    4651    4379    4666        4801    5143    5553    5942
(US$ million at current prices)
GNPpercapita(US$, Atlasmethod)           431      518      530     530      510      510     560      570      580
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  2.9     5.2     5.1      5.0      5.7      5.1     5.5      5.0      5.0
Gross Domestic Income                   5.0      3.8      5.4     5.2      6.7      4.4     4.3      4.7      5.1
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  0.2     2.5     2.3      2.2      2.9      2.4     2.8      2.3      2.3
Total consumption                      -0.7      0.1      1.4     2.5      2.6      2.5     0.5      1.0      2.1
Private consumption                     0.6      0.8      1.9     2.6      3.2      2.9      1.3     1.1      2.4
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                        1272    1544    1588    1488    1546    1567    1725    1872    2014
Merchandise FOB                       791      968     986      932      971      985    1122    1239    1347
Imports (GNFS)b                        1515    1797    1896    1777    1814    1869    2001    2122    2275
Merchandise FOB                      1022    1217    1268    1196    1245    1301    1409    1502    1620
Resource balance                       -243    -253    -308    -289    -268    -302    -276    -249    -261
Netcurrenttransfers                     134      110       58      42       54       28       44      20       19
Cunrent account balance                   6      -26      -63     -72      -80    -168    -146    -114    -121
(Continued)



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
SENEGAL
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator                1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Net private foreign direct investment     48      -10       -5      92        10     158       81       90      100
Long-term loans (net)                    319      339     339      326      310      222      293      259      259
Official                                 19       48      96       96      118      171      231       38      108
Private                                 301     291      244      231      192       51       62      221      150
Othcr capital (net, incl. crrors & otnmissions)  -133    -221    -216    -213    -215    -178  -107    -137    -171
Change in reservesd                     -240      -82      -55    -133      -25      -34    -121       -98      -68
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)               -6.7    -5.7    -6.6    -6.6    -5.7    -6.3         -5.4    -4.5    -4.4
Real annual growth rates ( 1987 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                 1.9    12.0      1.6      1.3      5.8      3.9     5.5      5.5      6.0
Primary                                 1.8    10.0       0.8      1.0      4.2      3.8     3.5      4.0      5.0
Manufactures                            2.0    14.1       2.3      2.0      6.3      4.0     6.0      7.0      8.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)                -8.1     3.5      3.0      2.2    10.8       6.0      5.0     5.0      5.0



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
SENEGAL
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                        17.6    18.3    17.3    17.4    17.4    17.3    16.8    16.8    17.2
Current expenditures                    16.0    14.6    13.5    12.7    11.6    12.3    13.2    11.9    12.2
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  1.5  3.7      3.8      4.7     5.8      5.0      3.6      4.8     5.0
Capital expenditure                      5.0     5.3      7.5      6.2      8.4     8.4      8.4      8.4     7.7
Foreign financing                       10.7     5.0      6.3      3.9     4.1      2.7      4.5      3.1     2.8
Monetary indicators
M2'GDP                                 23.7    23.0    24.1    22.9    23.0    23.3    23.5    23.9    24.1
GrowthofM2(%)                          38.9      7.2    11.3       2.4     8.1      8.6      8.4      8.1     8.0
Private sector credit growth          -205.3    61.6   150.1   213.9    26.5  -258.2    78.9   117.1   114.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1987 =100)
Merchandise export price index          77.5    80.2    91.2    88.1    87.1    88.6    89.5    91.3    93.1
Merchandise import price index         107.3   107.1   125.2   124.9   117.9   121.2   124.8   126.1   124.8
Merchandise terms of trade index        72.2    74.9    72.8    70.5    73.9    73.1    71.7    72.4    74.6
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f           53.1    57.6    58.0    54.1    56.2    54.8    53.7    52.6    51.6
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)         32.0     3.4      2.8      1.8     1.1      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0
GDP deflator (% change)                 27.7     5.0      1.3      2.3      1.9     2.2      1.7      1.4      1.9
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



ANNEX C
TRADE AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
SENEGAL
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
Closed
Projects 87
Last PSR
Board
Date                                                                  Supervision Rating bI          Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal                                                            Development Implementation        IBRD         IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.
Year  Active Projects                                              Objectives     Progress
1995    P035615   COMM NUTRITION                                         S             S                 0        18.2          0      0.96
1995    P002376   PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                                     S             S                 0        12.5          0      3.47
1995    P002346   WATER SECTOR                                          HS             S                 0        100           0    54.62
1996    P002373   HIGHER EDUC I                                          S             S                 0        26.5          0    11.18
1996    P035621    P!LOT FEMALE LITERAC                                 HS            HS                 0        12.6          0      2.85
1997    P041567   ENDEMIC DISEASES                                       S             S                 0        14.9          0    12.91
1997    P046648   REGIONAL POWER                                         S             S                 0        10.5          0      4.92
1997    P046768   SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                                   S             S                 0         5.2          0      3.96
1997    P044383   URBAN TRANS REF TA                                     S             S                 0         6.6          0      2.78
1998    P051610   AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                                    S             S                 0           8          0      6.02
1998    P051357    ENERGY SEC. ADJ.                                      S             S                 0         100          0    74.24
1998    P002369   INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                                   S             S                 0          50          0    35.38
1998    P002365    URB DEVT & DECEN PRO                                  S             S                 0         75           0    58.52
1999    P002367   AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                                   S             S                 0        27-4          0    24.84
1999    P002366   TRANSPORT II                                           S             S                 0          90          0    82.19
2000    P069198   Distance Learning Center - LIL                                                         0         2.1          0      2.13
2000    P057996   NAT.INFRA.PROGRAM                                                                      0        28.5          0    27.57
2000    P047319   Quality Education For All Program                                                      0          50          0    49.32
2000    P055472   URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                    HS             HS                0          70          0    69.62
2000    P067498   Y2K NATIONAL ACTION PLAN SUPPORT PROJECT               S             S                 0       10.15          0      8.98
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



ANNEX D
TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN CREDIT SHEET
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare project ...... 9 months
Preparation ...................   December 1999-April 2000
Pre-appraisal ...................   May-June 2000
Appraisal ...................   August 2000
Negotiations ...................   August 2000
Board Presentation ................... September 2000
Effectiveness Date ................... September 2000
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank missions which visited
the Republic of Senegal in May and June 2000 to assist the Government in the
pre-appraisal of the Trade Reform and Competitiveness Credit (TRCC).
Preparation was interrupted for a period of four months due to the election of a
new government in March 2000.  Mission members included: Ms. Nancy
Benjamin (Mission Leader, Sr. Economist) and Mr. Abdoulaye Seck
(Economist). Mr. Emmanuel Akpa (Sector Manager) joined the discussions with
the authorities. Mr. Mather Pfeiffenberger (Program Assistant) assisted the June
mission.



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
POLIcYA AiI                                                              PFMD
EVALUATtON
I. Tax and Tariff Reform    &   Implement the common external tariff (CET).        2000  *  Done                                                  IDA
  Eliminate pr&cisons tarifaires (tariff discounting   1999  *  Done                                              IDA and IMF
mechanism).
  hmport tariff reductions implemented as of Credit   2000-2002  *  Record of WAEMU Secretariat Directives          WAEMU
effectiveness are not re-imposed through                                                                         Secretariat
safeguard protection measures.
*   Implement general use of a single taxpayer          2001  *  Unique mapping between taxpayer and               IDA and IMF
identification number system.                                  identification number of tax records. Performance
standards equal to that of Ninea taxpayer
identification system.
*   Implement a formnal data link between customs       2001  *   Implementation of Plan d'action pour la mise en    FIAS and IMF
and tax administrations that will automatically                oeuvre des mesures d'alligement des procedures
include all imnports in the VAT base.                          relatives ii l'investissementprivd (action plan on
investmnent procedures) concerning trade
facilitation.
*   Establishment of full electronic information-       2001  *  Tax records entered by one agency retrievable     IDA and IMF
sharing between the customs, tax, and treasury                 electronically by the other agencies.
departmnents.
II. Institutional Reforms    *  Establish public objective performnance criteria   2000  *  Publication in official gazette or general circulation  IDA and MOF
for Enhanced                   for customs clearance procedures.                              publication.
Competitiveness
*   Establish public performance criteria for           2000  *  Publication in official gazette or general circulation  IDA and MOF
improvement in tax services,                                   publication.
*   Progress has been achieved by the Borrower in  2000-2002  *  Reduce customs clearance time as specified in the   IDA and MOF
carrying out the programn as outlined in its Letter            Letter of Development Policy.
of Development Policy.
*   Monitor performance criteria for improvement in   IDA and MOF
tax services.
*  Maintain social sector spending at levels targeted    IDA and IMF
in IPRSP.



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
SENEGAL TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITrVENESS CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
Develop the legislative framework defining the     2001  *  Draft legislation approved by Cabinet.          IDA and MOF
architecture of the regulatory system for the
public utilities and establishing an effective
regulatory regime that is characterized by                *  Draft legislation specifies means to establish that
coherency, independence, accountability, and                 regulatory agencies:
transparency.                                                         have competent, professional staff;
are independent from executive and
legislative branches of govemment;
arc accountable for decisions to an
independent review agency;
provide for due process of review for
competent interested parties;
provide reasoned justifications for
decisions;
>      stipulate deadlines for reaching decisions.



ANNEX F
Page 1 of 2
Senegal at a glance                                                             7116100
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Senegal    Africa  Income       Development dlamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       9.0      627      3,536                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (AUas method, US$)                    508        510      520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      4.6     .323      1,842
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Populabon (%)                                         2.7       2.6       1.7
Labor force (%J                                        *        2.6       1.9     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                45        33        30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      52        50        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               ..        92       68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            22        33        36               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                 51         43       73
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  67        40        31
Gross prmary enrollment (%of school-age population)   66        78       107                  Senegal
Male                                                71        85       112                  Low-income group
Female                                              57        71       102
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                           2.8      4.6       4.7       4.8
GrossdomesticinvestmenVGDP                  11.4     11.9      18.6      18.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP           30.9    26.7       33.0      32.6                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   2.4      6.4      12.8      12.6
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                   -2.2      2.3     . 12.4     11.6
Current account balanceJGDP                -15.1     -9.7      -6.2      -72      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                        1.8      3.2       1.9       18      Sains                       Investment
Total debtVGDP                              40.8     70.7      71.2      65.4     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                  15.2    26.6        9.7       9.3
Present value of debtVGDP                     ..       ..      43.2      44.0
Present value of debWexports                  ..       ..    120.0    124.2
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.9      3.1      5.7       5.1       5.1            -     Senegal
GNP per capita                     -0.1      0.6      3.0       2.5       2.5                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.0      2.0      5.8       6.0       9.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investment and GDP(%)
(% of GOP)
Agrculture                                  23.7     19.4      17.4      17.9     2
Industry                                    15.0     18.8      24.2      25.3    10-          -         _
Manufacturing                             10.4     13.3       15.8     16.7         o
Services                                    61.4     61.9      58.4      56.9   ,X0           95  9s   97   st   99
Private consumption                         80.3     78.0      76.9      76.6   -20 -
General government consumption              17.3     15.6      10.3      10.8
Imports of goods and services               40.0    32.1       38.7      38.9                   GDt         GCP
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998     1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  1.8      1.5      -3.2       6.0    15-
Industry                                     4.2      4.1       8.5       6.3    lo -
Manufacturing                              4.6      3.4        7.8      4.9           
Services                                     3.0      3.3       7.6   -  4.5
Prvate consumption                           2.2      3.0       6.0       5.7                s95   9    97   98
General government consumption               3.4     -0.5       1.4       2.3
Gross domestic investment                    4.1      4.8      17.6       1.7   -10 -
Imports of goods and services                1.7      1.1      10.8       4.4                 Exports        Imports
Gross national product                       2.8      3.4       5.8       5.3   _
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. Itf data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX F
Page 2 of 2
Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Innation(%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                              9 7      0.4       1.1      2.0    30 -
Implicit GDP deflator                        9 7      0.9       1.9      2.2    20 -
Government finance                                                               10     .
(% of GOP. includes current grants)                                                  - -
Current revenue                             18 4     17.8      17.4     17.3                   95  -            9    9t
Current budget balance                         ..    -0.1       5.8      5.0            -     GOP deflator   e0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -2.9       -2.6     -3.3    __
TRADE                                                                                 _       --
1979    1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         478      759       971       985    1.500 -
Groundnut                                   ..    150          54       56    1.400 -
Fish                                        *-       70        25       31    1.200-
Manufactures                                ..    167         265      281      '-
Total imports (cif)                                 1.134     1,376    1.493
Food                                        ..      334       311      325       M
Fuel and energy                 *         -         155       179      193 20
Capitalgoods                                ..    173         211      245                  
93  94  95   9 97   5 9
Exportprice index (1995=100)                  ..    104        116       118
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                    ..      63        99       102                *Exports      Wimports
Termsoftradef(995XO)                          ..    127         116      115
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      current account balance to GOP(%J
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services               816    1,255      1,546    1,567      0
Imports of goods and services              1.104    1,514     1,814    1,869      2
Resource balance                           -288    -260        -268     -302
Net income                                   -79    -205        -76      -72
Netcurrenttransfers                         -48       16        54        28      -        _I
Cufrent account balance                     -415    -448       -290     -346         i
Financing items (net)                       265      543       315       380    -20.
Changes in net reserves                      150     -95        -25      -34    -12 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS milions)         34      31       428       449
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)            212.7   319.0      590.0    615.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt 1US$ n8l1.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,122    3,269     3,324    3,138
IBRD                                       41       94         9         5                    F 6AG20
IDA                                        88      592      1,448    1,588
Total debt service                           135     359        163      158          E: 845
IBRD                                        6       18         8         5
IDA                                          1   8             18       15
Compositon of net resource tbws                                                                                 8: 1.588
Official grants                            148     293       241       204
Official creditors                        359      573       409       348
Private creditors                          47      -51        -27      -28          D: 418
Foreign direct investment                    6      -15        7       169
Portfolio equity                            0      -205       -36      -39                  c: 199
World Bank program
Commitments                                 32      22        233        0     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               27      49       108        70      B - IDA    D0- Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        3       11         16       19       -IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   25      38        93        51
Interest payments                            4       13        10        1
Net transfers                              21       25        82        50
7/16100
Development Economics



ANNEX G
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Office of the Minister
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H. Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Subject:   Credit Development Policy Letter
Trade Reform and Competitiveness Credit
In the spirit of productive dialogue and beneficial cooperation that exists between Senegal and the
World Bank, and for the specific purposes of the country's trade reform and competitiveness support
program, I wish to set out for you the main features of our fiscal and customs reform policy and to
provide details on the strategy and action program that we intend to implement in 2000-2001. First,
however, I believe it is necessary to describe for you the economic setting against which this reform is to
take place.
MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
Background
1.   Since the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994, the Senegalese economy has returned to a growth
path. Over the period 1995-2000, the average annual rate of real GDP growth has exceeded 5%. Despite
this performance, poverty is an issue of increasing concern in a context where the economy is becoming
more open and democracy is being reinforced. On the domestic front, then, there is a dual need: on one
hand to free up the energies of the private sector, and on the other hand to foster solidarity and mass
participation. On the external front, subregional groupings are seen as providing a propitious framework
for opening of the Senegalese economy.
2.   A number of surveys, including the Priorities Survey (ESP) and the Senegalese Household Survey
(ESAM) have been conducted to help define and implement policies and programs within this
perspective. In formulating economic and social policies, complete and reliable statistics on household
standards of living and household participation in economic activity are indispensable to a proper
understanding of the interactions between the economic policy measures that have been taken
(stabilization and structural adjustment) on one hand, and growth and the extent and profile of poverty on
the other.
The ESP shows that in 1991/92, 30% of Senegalese households were living below the poverty
threshold, defined as the level of expenditure needed to maintain a diet of 2400 calories per day for each



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 15
family member. According to the same indicator, 75% of poor households were found in rural areas, and
58% of rural households were poor.
3.   The poverty profile for Senegal will be updated as soon as results are available from the household
income and expenditure survey now in preparation as part of an overall antipoverty strategy. Meanwhile,
the statistics at hand provide a basis for defining the key elements of a poverty reduction strategy, namely:
 Implementation of policies that will maintain an open and competitive economy, promote sustainable
human development, and strengthen the effectiveness of economic and social institutions;
* Greater access for the poor to land and natural resources, and to public human capital development
services;
* Implementation of specifically targeted programs of the social safety net kind, in order to improve
living standards for the poor.
4.   Economic and social programs are today being approached from the perspective of an overall
strategy now in preparation for reducing poverty and promoting growth. The recasting of economic
policy toward poverty reduction focuses it on steady improvement in competitiveness and on
strengthening and broadening sustainable human development. In this respect, introduction of the
WAEMU external tariff, which in Senegal's case means a reduction in protective tariff barriers, will
require adjustment by domestic businesses and could, in the short term, lead to a decline in government
revenues. These implications are examined below in detail.
Economic objectives for 2000-2003
5.  In order to create conditions conducive to strengthening of the positive policy achievements of
r ecent years, within a global strategy of poverty reduction and economic growth, the Government will put
into effect complementary programs and policies designed to ensure:
* Broad involvement by rural people in a program to foster higher growth: programs and projects are
more likely to succeed if their intended beneficiaries are involved in both their design and their
execution;
* Better access to social programs for poor people, particularly in rural and peri-urban areas, and
greater effectiveness of these programs;
* Introduction of structural reforms to promote self-reliance and private initiative, particularly in the
agriculture and micro-credit sectors. Poor communities often need a degree of technical assistance to
enable them to take initiative and formulate effective action plans;
* Introduction of integrated antipoverty programs;
* Introduction of a system for monitoring living standards of poor households.
6.   The macroeconomic framework will be supported by a government budgetary and fiscal policy
aimed at continued strengthening of the public finances. The government budget will be designed to
produce a basic surplus of 1% of GDP in 2000; tax revenues will rise to 16.6% of GDP. On the
expenditure side, priority will continue to be given to the social sectors, which will be allocated a 40.4%
share of current spending in 2000, with 32.2% going to education and 8.2% to health. Monetary policy
2



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 15
will remain cautious, in accordance with the objectives of stability and growth and consolidation of the
external position as defined by the WAEMU Council of Ministers, and will be designed to control
inflation and balance of payments trends.
The macroeconomic and sector policies now in place will be pursued through specific programs
and plans in the areas of private sector development, poverty reduction, and good governance. The
underlying theme will be to place the economy on a soundly competitive and attractive footing.
7.   The policy for development of the private sector is based on a set of industrial, tax, and financial
incentives in keeping with the general thrust of the country's economic liberalization policy. The
Government is now taking steps to simplify administrative procedures relating to private investment, as
recommended in a study conducted by the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) on investment
approval procedures in Senegal. An agency was created in April 2000 to promote investment, and is now
in the process of establishing itself. Finally, the foreign trade facilitation module will be in place at Trade
Point no later than September 2000.
Initiatives have also been taken to rationalize the legal environment for economic activity, through
a comprehensive justice development program. At the same time, the privatization program is proceeding
and will contribute to greater economic efficiency.
8.   The Government has decided to move ahead more quickly with formulation of a governance
program centered on improvement of the quality of public sector services and the eradication of
corruption. Public enterprises will be subject to management audits, and a customs administration action
plan will reinforce the battle against fraud. The conclusions of national consultations on the quality of
public services and governance will be released no later than September 2000. The governance program
calls for initial action to control growth of the civil service and the public sector payroll, followed by
steps to steer the civil service toward taking greater account of users' concerns. On this point, it will be
important to strengthen capacities to manage the national economy by taking advantage of new
information and communication technologies.
If economic policy is to be successfully refocused on the goal of poverty reduction, the intrinsic
conditions for success of social policies will have to be preserved through credible macroeconomic
policies designed to ensure sustained growth and a better distribution of its benefits. The Government has
prepared an interim poverty reduction and growth strategy document, which has been approved by the
Boards of Executive Directors of the IMF and the World Bank, and steps are now being taken for
progressive implementation of this strategy.
9.   In order to mobilize the resources essential to achievement of the above objectives, the
Government intends to introduce a wide-ranging fiscal and customs reform, geared toward integration
process, and focused on three challenges:
*  Changing the revenue structure and strengthening the capacity of the state (administration and
decision centers) to allocate resources in accordance with strategic development priorities;
*  Increasing the tax effort and improving the way this effort is shared, in particular by improving
capture of informal sector income flows and broadening the tax base of each levy;
*  Enhancing the efficiency, equity, and simplicity of the consumption tax system. Extending the VAT
to trade and services must go hand in hand with better targeting of the effective tax rate among the
various sectors of activity.
3



ANNEX G
Page 4 of 15
FISCAL AND CUSTOMS REFORM IN SENEGAL
10.  The option of reducing import taxes, implemented within the WAEMU context, is intended to
reorganize nominal and effective protection significantly. It reflects the desire of WAEMU member
states to abandon their reliance on high import taxes as a source of state revenues while encouraging
businesses established in the Union to adjust to the more competitive environment by controlling their
costs and improving the quality of their products. As a corollary, greater importance will have to be
placed on domestic taxation, by broadening the tax base and reducing tax rates over the short term, while
adjusting the tax base to reflect the restructuring of the country's productive apparatus, in favor of high
value-added goods and services.
T'he process of convergence toward the WAEMU Common External Tariff
1 1. On January 1, 2000, the customs taxation regime entered a phase of stability, after a long period of ad
hoc fiscal regulation. This process was launched in 1997, in concert with WAEMU partners, when the
Council of Ministers of the Union adopted Regulation No. 02/97/CM/WAEMU instituting the Common
External Tariff (CET). This Regulation defined a scheme of convergence toward the CET, which has
been followed under the national plan developed in April 1998.
1:2. In April 1998, Senegal adopted a multi-stage national plan thatwould allow it to conform with the
rates and deadlines established by the Regulation. This national plan comprised two phases:
_ A first phase running from April 1998 to 31 December 31, 1999;
1  A second phase beginning January 1, 2000, the date the Customs Union would come into effect.
The depth of the reforms undertaken during the first phase can be appreciated by recalling the tariff
structure that prevailed prior to April 1998.
Table 1 summarizes that structure. Imported products were divided into seven classes, each of which
carried a customs duty (0% or 10%), a fiscal duty (reduced rate 10%, ordinary rate 20%, surcharge rate
30%, or special rate 50%), and a customs duty stamp (5%).
4



ANNEX G
Page 5 of 15
The reform of April 1998 established a new tariff structure with a single levy, the customs tariff,
combining the former customs and fiscal duties. The structure of the single rate coincided with the new
classification (four tiers), with a peak tariff of 30% (Table 2). This new system was in effect until
December 31, 1999, and did much to smooth Senegal's entry into the WAEMU Customs Union.
13. Adoption of a national plan made it possible to avoid a series of inadequate or hastily conceived
tariff reforms, while at the same time removing the risk that the Government might lose control over
import taxation, which accounts for more than 35% of its fiscal revenues. Finally, by moving in April
1998 to a reform that in effect pre-empted any future changes, the Government was able to forestall the
harmful effect of speculation that might have been unleashed by the premature announcement of a series
of staged tax reforms, and that might have led some importers to suspend operations in anticipation of
more favorable tax treatment, thereby causing shortages of certain staples. In the end, such expectations
might also have distorted the balance of payments statistics and their economic interpretation.
Liberalizing intra-community trade
14. In parallel with the plan for external convergence toward the CET, the program to liberalize intra-
community trade has proceeded apace. Since July 1, 1996, agricultural products and traditional craft
products have circulated completely free of duties and taxes.
In the case of non-eligible originating manufactured goods, the normally applicable customs duty
has been reduced by 5%. For eligible originating manufactured goods, abatements have been introduced
to the normally applicable customs duty in accordance with the following schedule:
*  From July 1, 1996, to July 31, 1997:          30% abatement;
*  From August 1, 1997, to December 31, 1998:    60% abatement;
*  From January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999:   80% abatement;
*  Since January 1, 2000:                        100% abatement
All of these abatements came into effect on the scheduled dates (Table 3).
Rationalization of customs taxation
15. The degree of rationalization of import taxation can be appreciated by examining the legal and
effective rates, weighted and non-weighted.
With the April 1998 reform, the average level of customs taxation (excluding VAT) declined from
32.14% in 1997 to 15% in 1999 (Tables 1 and 2). With integration of the VAT, this rate has dropped
from 46.64% to 24.37%, i.e. the shift is even greater, reflecting the fact that the VAT is now inclusive of
the customs duty.
If rates are weighted by the relative share of each class or category of goods in total imports, the
average rate, excluding the VAT, declined from 3.56% in 1997 to 3.39% in 1999. Including the VAT, the
average rate rose from 5.51 % to 6.26% over the same period.
5



ANNEX G
Page 6 of 15
Elmntngteipato  xmpin  ndtrf usesos,teefetv  vraert o_utm
taato  in th  stitsners_rm73_n19  o85  i  99  nannwihe   ai,adfo
1.9 _o25%o          _ wihe  ai,oertesm   eid
Taigit  con  l  odrtxsaddte, h  fetv  aedcie  rm4.6   n19
to2.%i  99  nannwihe   ai,adrs fo   . %t  .2   nawihe   ai,drn  h
saepro._ ilb  en  hn  htteaeaelglrtso  mottxto,i  h  titsneo
inldn  VA,adteefciertshv_oe  nopst  ietos
ThQe        _ reomhsteeoeicesdtepoutviyo_utm   aain   ept  h oe
avrg  a  ae    hsfc   eosrtsteqait   ftetrf  eomadtesudeso  h
prnilsudryn  t
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX G
Page 7 of 15
16.  The reform has also led to simplification and narrowing of rate dispersion, as measured by the
standard deviation. Thus, the standard deviation of customs duty rates strictly defined declined from 0.21
in 1997 to 0.11 in 1999, on a non-weighted basis, and from 0.04 to 0.03 on a weighted basis during the
same period. This narrowing is also important when it comes to cumulative customs and VAT rates,
where the standard deviation declined from 0.33 in 199.7 to 0.23 in 1999 on a non-weighted basis, and
from 0.06 to 0.05 on a weighted basis during the same period.
The scope of these changes points to significant revenue losses, due both to the reduction in
domestic and external tax rates and to an elasticity-induced increase in the trade deficit.
Revenues foregone as a result of the Customs Union
17.  For the year 2000, figures calculated jointly with the IMF show foregone revenues of CFAF 35
billion, of which CFAF 31 billion reflects elimination of the 5% customs duty stamp and its replacement
by the statistical tax; the remainder consists of revenue losses from the weakening of the VAT base and
the reduction from 25% to 20% in the customs tariff on consumer goods (WAEMU category 3).
18.  Overall, revenue losses not eligible for compensation amounted to CFAF 65.667 billion for the
period from July 1, 1996 to December 31, 2000. Out of this total, losses on intra-Community trade
amounted to CFAF 5.251 billion.
Macroeconomic reforms
19.  The positive impact of these reforms on the macroeconomic framework will make itself felt only
slowly. In order to minimize the impact of the Customs Union on the public finances, the external
accounts and the productive system, and to ensure an orderly and gradual replacement of import taxation
by domestic taxation, the Government intends to implement reforms in the general macroeconomic
framework and to pursue reforms in domestic taxation and tax administration.
20.  In terms of investment, the tariff reform greatly lightened the tax burden on capital goods. As a
consequence, businesses will be able to dispense with the inhibiting formalities for obtaining approval
under the Investment Code, which was needed to qualify for exemptions. Provisions to this effect will be
contained in the new WAEMU Community Investment Code.
Furthermore, in an effort to simplify approval procedures, an Investment and Major Works
Promotion Agency has been created. Its mission is to reduce the time needed for approvals under the
Investment Code to a few days.
Finally, the World Bank FIAS report made eight recommendations for streamlining investment-
related administrative formalities. In its economic policy memorandum submitted to the IMF, the
Government committed itself to implementing all of these recommendations as of June 2000.
21. With respect to competitiveness measures, these recommendations focus on two areas:
* Strengthening price competitiveness by reducing the cost not only of the conventional factors of
production, such as capital and labor, but also of technical factors of production such as water,
electricity, telephone, fuel, etc. The tariff reforms of April 1998 and January 2000 fall within this
context, as does the privatization of certain public water, electricity and telephone enterprises.
7



ANNEX G
Page 8 of 15
* Greater attention to the structural factors of competitiveness in order to place the country's
comparative advantages on a sustainable, even irreversible, footing. The program of reforms in this
area places great emphasis on the private sector, which will benefit from such facilities as the
Investment and Major Works Promotion Agency, the Private Sector Foundation, the Business
Climate Support Unit ,and the Growth and Competitiveness Advisory Group. The preservation of the
macroeconomic framework, including effective control over inflation and over public and external
deficits, should also be seen as part of this institutional framework. On this point, Senegal has
succeeded in meeting all of the convergence criteria established in the WAEMU system for
multilateral surveillance of economic policies.
Reforming domestic taxation and tax administration
:22. The Government's medium-term objective here is to establish a domestic taxation system sufficiently
flexible to support the gradual process of replacing import taxation by domestic taxation, inherent in the
lprocess of development.
23. In pursuit of this objective, the Government intends, first, to increase yields from the Customs
Administration, by modernizing the Automated Customs and Trade Information Management System
(GAINDE). The new program developed for this purpose, once implemented, should yield the following
r esults:
*  Automation of certain formalities and computerization of all customs bureaus: this will result in
significant reductions in the delays and incremental costs associated with the customs clearance
process.
* Interconnection of the Directorates of Customs, Treasury, Taxation and State Property, and Planning
and Statistics: economic operators, particularly investors, will have access to this interconnected
network.
* Gradual replacement of certain manual procedures: this will allow for new facilities such as electronic
management of Treasury receipt forms, exonerations and other exemptions, supplementary payments,
warehouse receipts, customs clearance forms at border points and at the airport.
*  Interface with external systems: this will make it possible to take advantage of the applications and
tools used by of Trade Point Senegal and the Autonomous Port of Dakar for electronic collection of
customs pre-clearance documents and the reception of electronic manifests.
It will be possible to judge the results of these moves by means of quantifiable coefficients,
comparing the new situation with that which prevailed before the new system was introduced. These
coefficients will highlight such concerns as the time taken to process the customs declaration, to conduct
a clearance operation, to process an investment application, or to obtain an exemption certificate.
24. With respect to domestic taxation, two important aspects of the Government's program involve
reforming the VAT and the General Directorate of Taxation and State Property (DGID).
The effectiveness date for introduction of a single VAT rate is July 2000. The new, single rate
(equilibrium rate) should lend a degree of neutrality to the fiscal system and above all should compensate,
in part, for revenue losses from the customs tariff reform. For this reason, a limited list of exempt goods
and services has been established. Apart from this list, no good or service will be exempt. Available
simulations suggest that the single rate should not result in any overall rise in the Harmonized Consumer
8



ANNEX G
Page 9 of 15
Price Index. A more refined analysis, however, points to a high risk of price increases for certain
essential staples, and budgetary measures may have to be taken to mitigate these increases.
25. Computerizing the DGID is intended to help it with overall execution of its mandated activities: tax
administration and collection, land ownership issues and their fiscal and state-property dimensions.
Specifically, computerization is intended to:
* Lighten the burden of managing DGID routine work;
* Guarantee the flow of information within DGID through the integrated use of data;
* Facilitate decision-making with respect to legislation, fiscal control, internal human resource
management;
* Facilitate the transfer of data collected and processed by the tax administration to the public
authorities, other administrations, and social partners.
* Improve working conditions by helping officers reassert their control over the operations for which
they are responsible, and increase their productivity by freeing them as far as possible from repetitive
tasks.
i Simplify taxpayer obligations and improve the public image of the taxation authorities.
These objectives will be pursued essentially in three ways:
- Computerizing tax service centers;
- Automating tax collection;
-  Computerizing property information, i.e. title, state property, and mortgage registries.
Achieving these objectives is expected to raise the productivity of tax administration and to broaden
and improve control over the tax base.
Productivity improvements will be measurable by the use of performance indicators:
* Reduction in the time needed to register taxpayers or to make changes in their files;
* Reduction in the number of delinquent taxpayers (non-filers) through stricter monitoring;
* Reduction in the number of taxpayers whose assessments are deferred to a later year;
* Reduction in the number of defacto tax credits resulting from errors in data entry and calculation;
* Number .of reassessments based on cross-checking and comparing information from the taxation and
customs administrations;
* Time needed to process the taxpayer rolls, from data entry to output of results;
9



ANNEX G
Page 10 of 15
* Production of statistical data for analyzing the tax base and collection rates.
26. In the case of the Directorate of Treasury and Public Accounting (DTCP), a restructuring and
modernization program focuses on three concerns:
Implementation of WAEMU institutional reforms: In accordance with WAEMU directives,
regulatory functions are to be separated from the keeping of state accounts. This separation implies both
physical and functional reorganization of the existing group of government entities concerned. The goal
is in part to reinforce the current resources of these entities in order to improve tax collection rates and
ensure daily monitoring of government spending and the regularity of budget operations, and in part to
allow real-time output of budget execution reports, pursuant to Article 48 of Resolution No.
05/97/CM/WAEMU.
Implementation  of  the  WAEMU  governmental  chart  of  accounts:    Resolution
05/98/CM/WAEMU introduced a governmental chart of accounts that will be applicable to all member
states as of January 1, 2001. This Resolution goes hand in hand with the introduction of new accounting
documents, a new accounts schedule, and newv accounting procedures. The Senegalese Treasury has in
fact been applying a government chart of accounts since 1998, with rules that are very close to those of
the WAEMU-mandated chart of accounts. The Directorate of Treasury and Public Accounting intends to
train all of its personnel in the new accounting methods. The objective is to ensure that they are fully
familiar and able to work with the accounting and budgetary rules and to produce proper accounting
clocuments.
Computerization of the central and local government charts, of accounts: The Directorate of
T reasury and Public Accounting has computerized the charts of accounts for the central government, local
governments, and Treasury correspondents [publicly funded entities that keep accounts with the
T'reasury], by installing a vast computer base. After a year of testing, the new system should be able to
take over the procedures and accounts terminology of the WAEMU chart of accounts, both in terms of
handling basic accounting transactions and monitoring auxiliary accounts. It will involve adapting the
current software by rewriting computer programs and introducing a relational database on local
government finances. The computerized program will also allow for real-time production of accounting
documents and reports, improve maintenance of applications already in use, upgrade security, and
enhance for storing data and for transferring them from local processing centers to the central and
regional levels.
Objectives for 2000-2001
27.  Overall, the objective of these reforms is to establish a tax system that will provide the Government
with sufficient resources without aggravating the tax burden. To achieve this objective, the Government
is prepared to sign commitments that will constitute performance criteria for the years 2000 and 2001.
28.  For the year 2000, the Government has undertaken not to increase tariff protection, and in
particular not to resort to any protective measure other than those sanctioned by WAEMU.
In order to reduce the costs of factors of production, the Government intends to continue applying
mieasures to promote greater economic competitiveness (see paragraph 21). With respect to energy costs
in particular, the Government intends to deal with this under the World Bank energy loan, in order to
ensure consistency.
10



ANNEX G
Page 11 of 15
The single VAT rate will be effective before the end of the fourth quarter of 2000.
Progress with restructuring of the Directorate of Customs (DGD) can be measured through the
performance criteria specified in paragraph 11. The Government is committed to reducing processing
times by between 5% and 10% during the first year. In pursuit of this objective, it will reorganize DGD
during the fourth quarter of 2000.
With respect to administrative procedures relating to private investment, the Government is
determined to implement the 18 recommendations of the World Bank FIAS report by the end of
November 2000.
29.  The proposed reorganization of the Directorate of Taxation (DGID) in 2001 should make it
possible to achieve the following performance criteria: (i) introduction of individual taxpayer
identification numbers and individual taxpayer files; and (ii) integration of all elements of customs
taxation into the basis for assessing the VAT.
30.  The Government proposes to introduce a legislative package to serve as a basis for the
establishment and expansion of companies that can be granted concessions to provide public utility
services.  In order to ensure that this new framework lends itself to coherence, independence,
accountability, and transparency, the Government intends to make certain that the governmental
departments that will be set up to support it are staffed with competent, specialized personnel capable of
acting independently in the jobs they are hired to perform. Decisions taken by these departments can be
expected to be well-founded, subject to appeal to the courts, and arrived at with reasonable promptness.
Within WAEMU itself, the Government will work to ensure that future Resolutions issued by the
Community in this area are in line with Senegal's own framework.
Yours truly,
lls/l
Makhtar DIOP
Minister of Economy and Finance
11



ANNEX G
Page 12 of 15
Table 1
Product Classification in Senegal before April 1998
Class of product      Customs duty   Customs    VAT            Cumulative Cumulative
& fiscal duty    duty stamp             rates       rates with
without     VAT
VAT
Class 1 A:
Social, cultural,
scientific & technical    0            5 %          0          5 %          5 %
goods & primary-sector
products
ClasslB:               10%             5%           0          15%          15%
Grains
Class I:
Capital goods, raw
materials, industrial  10%             5 %          10 %       15 %         26.5 %
inputs
Class III A:
Consumer goods not    30%              5 %          10 %       35 %         48.5 %
produced locally
Class III B:
Manufactured goods
competing with locally  40 %           5 %          10 %       45 %         59.5 %
produced goods
Class IV A:
Consumer goods with   40 %             5 %          20 %       45 %         74 %
high revenue incidence
Class IV B:
Luxury or surtaxed     60 %            5 %          20 %       65 %         98 %
goods                                                    _
12



ANNEX G
Page 13 of 15
Table 2
Product Classification after April 1998
Class of product      Customs duty    Customs    VAT          Cumulative Cumulative
duty stamp             rates       rates with
without     VAT
VAT
Category 1:
Priority products',
capital goods,        0                5 %         0          5 %          5 %
computers,
electronic &
telecommunications
equipment
Category 2:
Essential goods2,
vehicles for public   5 %              5 %         0          10%          10%
transportation of people
and goods,
raw materials
Category 3:
Semifinished products   10 %           5 %         10 %       15 %         26.5 %
Category 4:
Consumer goods,       25 %             5 %         20 %       30 %         56 %
tourism vehicles
1    Priority products: Pharmaceutical products listed in Chapter 30; medical equipment; prescription
eyeglasses; inputs for manufacturing these products; newsprint; books, brochures, newspapers and
publications; etc.
2    Essential products: Primarily grains listed in Chapter 10.
13



ANNEX G
Page 14 of 15
Table 3
Application of WAEMU Reforms in Senegal
2/ Customs Union
-  Memorandum N0 0771/DGD/DERD/BE2 of
June 21, 1996 reducing import duties on
a) Addendum N 04/96 instituting a temporary    originating manufactured goods by 60%.
preferential tariff regime on trade within the
WAEMU and its mode of financing.        -  Memorandum N 1038 of April 14, 1996 on
tax-free  and  duty-free  circulation   of
agricultural products and traditional craft
products.
b) Resolution  N  02/97/COM/WAEMT on -  Memorandum N 0774/DGD/DERD/BE2 of
adoption of the Common Tariff (CET).        July 8, 1996 instituting the Community
Solidarity Levy (PCS).
-  Memorandum N 1787/DGD/DERD/BE2 of
December 8, 1999 giving effect to the CET in
Senegal.
c) Resolution N 05/98/COM/WAEMU defining Memorandum   N  957/DGD/DERD/BE3   of
the list of categories of goods in the WAEMU December 31, 1998 on application of Resolutions
tariff and statistical nomenclature.     02/97  and  05/98, and  instituting  a  new
classification of goods in the WAEMU tariff and
statistical nomenclature. Applicable as of January
1, 1999.
d) Addendum N 01/97 of 23/06/97 amending -  Memorandum   N  0810/DGD/DERD/BE3
Article 12 and Addendum No. 04/96 of May 10,   introducing abatement under the Community
1996.                                          Preference Tax (TPC) of 60%  for import
duties on eligible originating manufactured
goods. Applicable as of 1//07/97.
e) Addendum N 04/98 amending Article 1 of -  Memorandum  No 061/DGD/DERD/BE2 of
Addendum  N 0197 amending Article 12 of    December 31, 1998 introducing abatement
Addendum No 04/96 of May 10, 1996 instituting a    under the Community Preference Tax (TPC)
preferential tariff regime.                    of 80%  for import duties  on  eligible
originating manufactured goods. Applicable
as of 1/01/99.
-  Memorandum N 1787/DGD/DERD/BE2 of
December 28, 1999 introducing abatement
under the TPC of 100% for eligible
originating manufactured goods.
f) Resolution N 03/99/CM/WAEMU adopting Senegal does not intend to apply the TDP.
the TDP mechanism within WAEMU.
14



ANNEX G
Page 15 of 15
g) Resolution N 04/99/WAEMU instituting a To be legally applicable under the Marrakech
"Reference Value" customs valuation system Accords, these valuations must be notified to the
within WAEMU.                              WTO, which is to examine Senegal's petition in
the matter on February 26, 2000 in Geneva.
h) Resolution  N  05/99/CM/WAEMU   on This Resolution is transposed from the Agreement
customs valuation of goods in member states on Customs Valuation, the effective date of which
of WAEMU.                               Senegal is asking the WTO to postpone so that it
can reorganize its organizational structure and
procedures to permit efficient application of the
Code.
i) Resolution N 06/99/WAEMU on adoption of The process of implementing the compensatory
the  TCI  (compensatory  import  levy) import levy has begun and the data needed for
mechanism.                              calculating trigger prices will be sent to the
Commission.
j) Resolution No 12/99/ amending the annex to Domestic regulations now  reflect the product
Resolution N0 05/98 of July 3, 1998 defining category changes and the breakdown of certain
the list of goods categories in the WAEMU tariff items by destination for customs taxation
tariff and statistical nomenclature.    purposes.
k) Addendum   N  07/99  increasing  the Memorandum    No    0057/DGD/DERD/BE2
Community Solidarity Levy (PCS).       increasing the PCS rate from 0.5% to 1% as of
January 1, 2000.
15



