Report No. PID9366
Project Name                     Senegal-Trade Reform and Competitiveness
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Trade Policy Reform
Project ID                       SNPE55471
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
Implementing Agency              MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Avenue Carde, Dakar, Senegal
Phone:   (221) 821 03 78;
Fax:   (221) 822 41 95
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                July 26, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         August 4, 2000
Projected Board Date             October 3, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1. Senegal is a small, semi-arid Sahelian nation with limited natural
resource endowments and high demographic pressure. Although these factors
strongly indicated open economic polices as the key solution for the country,
the country pursued until 1994 inward-looking policies that maintained its
economic growth rate (2.3 percent average annual GDP growth rate from 1960-
1993) below the population growth rate (2.6 percent annual average over the
same period). Senegal attempted to adopt trade reform measures in the late
1980s, but this was made very difficult because of the overvaluation at that
time of the CFA Franc. While Senegal has been experiencing sustained strong
growth since 1994, its gross domestic project was US$4.8 billion in 1999,
equivalent to a per capita GNP of about US$520, placing Senegal in the low-
income country group. Senegal's social indicators still compare poorly to
other Sub-Saharan African countries. And yet, the country has advantages
including a strategic location as the closest point of Africa to America, a
proximity with Europe, and all its western part bordered by the Atlantic
Ocean. But this potential is yet to be realized.
2. In 1994 two major events took place simultaneously, dramatically
changing the general picture described above: a major devaluation of the
local currency and the decision by Senegal and the seven other country-
members of WAMU (the West African Monetary Union) to create a customs union.
The devaluation provided a window of opportunity to implement far-reaching
trade reforms. With a Common External Tariff (CET) in place since January
2000, Senegal has its lowest tariff ever which gives the country a unique
chance to improve the overall efficiency of its economy and boost exports.
The purpose of the proposed TRCC is to assist the country to capture all the
benefits of these positive changes while mitigating potential transitional
costs.
3. On January 1, 2000 Senegal implemented the last step of the WAEMU
Common External Tariff (CET) reform, reducing the maximum import tax from 65



percent to 20 percent, reducing seven tariff categories to four, combining
the customs and fiscal duties, and reducing the statistical tax from five
percent (with various exceptions) to one percent on all imports. Tariffs on
goods from within the region have been eliminated. WAEMU members can apply
for three types of safeguard protection measures: a temporary protection
surtax (TDP) which declines progressively from a maximum of 20 percent to
zero by 2003; a compensatory import levy (TCI) which protects against large
fluctuations in world prices; and reference prices, or administratively set
customs values. Use of reference prices requires that WAEMU submit a
regional list of products in application for a WTO waiver. To date, no
definite list has been submitted. Further, WAEMU members are not required to
impose safeguard measures requested by other members. Rather, rules of
origin can be applied in those cases where safeguard measures differ across
countries.
4. Senegal's recourse to WAEMU-authorized safeguard protection measures
has been limited. It has applied for and received WAEMU approval for TCI on
various sugar products. An application to WAEMU for eligibility of rice for
TCI is still under consideration. Nevertheless, the TCI on rice should allow
Senegal to remove the current rice import surtax. TDP remains on tobacco;
however, the Government has now renounced a previously submitted and WAEMU-
approved request for TDP on a dozen product categories. Senegal also
previously used a tariff discounting mechanism (precions tarifaires) on a
number of goods. These were eliminated between September and December 1999.
5. WAEMU members are also required to implement a uniform Value Added Tax
(VAT) within the range of 16 to 19 percent, and to raise 16 percent of GDP in
fiscal revenues. Senegal has chosen to set a VAT rate of 18 percent,
compared to the current structure, which taxes most transactions at 20
percent and some at 10 percent. Thus under the new regime, the VAT rate will
be reduced on most products and increased on some, while structural
improvements in the efficiency of tax administration should help expand the
tax base.
6. The fiscal revenue losses from tariff reform are due to be recovered
through these reforms in the VAT, but only after several months delay, as the
new VAT will be in place only at the end of September 2000. Thus for 2000
the tariff reductions have been estimated to reduce fiscal revenues by about
one percent of GDP. In other respects, Senegal's fiscal balances are in line
with IMF targets; revenues as a share of GDP exceeded WAEMU standards and IMF
program levels in 1999 while expenditures were below target. Thus budgetary
support can be expected to help maintain the poverty fighting agenda as
originally conceived for 2000 and to fund the institutional reforms that will
remove obstacles hindering the private sector and foreign investment.
Objectives
7. The objectives of this credit are to improve the competitiveness of the
Senegalese economy by liberalizing trade, facilitating trade and tax
procedures, and supporting regulatory programs that promote competitive
pricing of public utility inputs to the productive sector. This adjustment
program supports the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy, which
incorporates a number of social sector targets and a commitment to promote
growth and employment through development of the private sector. Given the
temporary revenue shortfall caused by the sequenced introduction of tariff
and tax reforms, the proposed credit aims to provide budget support to ensure
-2 -



that this shortfall will not lead to disruptions in social sector programs,
and to support institutional reforms that will reduce administrative burdens
on the private sector.
Description
(i) Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
8. Trade liberalization: The CET has been implemented and the precisions
tarifaires have been removed. The Government has already renounced the
regionally approved list of goods for TDP. It is committed under its I-PRSP
to minimizing all other import protection measures before reaching the
completion point in its debt relief program.
9. Trade facilitation: The customs department plans to reduce the number
and length of procedures required for customs clearance. It will also
implement an electronic information-sharing plan connecting databases among
the customs offices and among the customs, tax, and treasury departments, as
well as with Trade Point, a mixed public/private entity that has pioneered
the implementation of electronic clearing of trade documents. Further, with
the full commitment of the Finance Minister, the customs department will
establish specific performance criteria regarding the length of time for
goods to pass through the port, and will monitor and publicize performance on
these criteria.
10. Tax facilitation: The tax department plans to increase the tax base,
reduce the number of tax exemptions and related procedures, and introduce a
single taxpayer dossier. With the new electronic information-sharing system,
the tax department expects to be able to audit their own services, improve
transparency, and improve taxpayer services, for example by reducing the
amount of time required to settle disputes. The tax department also plans to
develop performance criteria along these lines and publicize results as a way
to attract new investors.
11. Regulation of utilities: The Government intends to consolidate its
regulatory expertise into a single regulatory board. From this platform the
Government can establish basic principles affecting all regulated utilities,
such as introducing pricing formulas that encourage greater efficiency and
lower costs of production, which should benefit both consumers and producers.
(ii) Benefits and target population:
12. The main target is the private sector and those who will benefit from
expanded employment creation. The trade liberalization and proposed
institutional reforms will reduce costs, improve competitiveness, and reduce
obstacles that hinder the private sector and discourage foreign investors.
In the IPRSP, the Government has centered its strategy for poverty reduction
on expansion of the private sector, and has committed to reduce unemployment
in advance of the HIPC completion point and presentation of its PRSP.
Financing
13. The proposed IDA credit of an equivalent of US$100 million is
tentatively scheduled to be disbursed in two tranches, following the Bank's
simplified disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations.
After an initial tranche disbursed on effectiveness, an additional tranche
would be disbursed based on satisfactory progress in the implementation of
-3 -



the program.
Implementation
14. The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance. The
Minister has issued a strong policy statement on modernization, data pooling,
and information sharing among the customs, tax, and treasury departments.
The Ministry is committed to establishing and monitoring performance criteria
in customs and tax procedures designed to reduce obstacles for the private
sector and attract foreign investment.   The Government is committed to
improving governance and transparency in these areas. Further, the
Government has taken a number of early actions in the area of trade
liberalization, as noted above.   The Minister of Finance is working with
other Cabinet Ministers to sustain the initiatives in the IPRSP and to reduce
poverty.  Moreover, he has appointed a committee, including members from his
office and from the customs and tax departments, to pilot this adjustment
program.
Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI): Y
Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
15. The proposed credit is not expected to have any negative environmental
impact. The credit has been placed in Category C, which does not require an
environmental assessment.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web:  http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 28, 2000.
- 4 -



