Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3419 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Trade Reform and Competitiveness Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 15, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3419 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2000 between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter 
dated August 8, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's 
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association 
has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section  2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these 
General Conditions.”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the  Development Credit Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07, 
respectively. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CFA Francs” means Francs de la Communauté Financière 
d'Afrique, the currency of the Borrower; and
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy 
five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
75,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in CFA Francs 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after 
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 37,850,000 unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described 
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, 
the Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
Page  4
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1, 
2011 and ending September 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on September 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above 
by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
Page  5
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on 
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Page  6
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
finance is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B. P. 4017
Rue René Ndiaye
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address: 
Telex:
     MINIFINANCES
3203G
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
     INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
     Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Page  7
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following 
expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; notwithstanding the 
foregoing, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, the 
financing of expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
with the proceeds of the Credit shall be allowed;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit or a loan; 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
Page  8
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories, or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
In accordance with the tax and customs policy referred to 
respectively in subsection 29 (i); subsection 29 (ii) connected with 
paragraph 2 of subsection 23; and subsection 23 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Borrower has:
(a)
introduced a single tax payer identification system;
(b)
established a formal link between its customs and domestic 
tax bases; and
(c)
established full electronic information sharing between the 
Customs, Tax and Treasury Departments.
2.
In accordance with the legal and regulatory reform plan referred to 
in subsection 30 of the Letter of Development policy, the Borrower's 
Cabinet has approved draft legislation for the regulation of public 
utilities, satisfactory to the Association.
