Document of                'FILE   C P
The World Bank                                COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE                          Report No. P-2457-Bk
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 25, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oeficgal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 1977, the Burmese kyat has been officially
valued at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and
consequently its value floats relative to other currencies.
The following exchange rate is used throughout this report
except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00       -    Kyat (K) 7.2
K 1.00        -    US$0.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Engiish/US Units                         Metric Units
1 mile (mi)                          1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                      -   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton) (2240 lb)   3   1016 kilograms (kg)
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC    - Agriculture Corporation
AD    - Agriculture Department
BSPP - Burmese Socialist Program Party
CC    - Construction Corporation, Ministry of Construction
MAF   - Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
PAPRD - Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department
PCD   - Plantation Crop Division
RRIM - Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
RS    - Rubber Section, Agriculture Corporation
SEE   - State Economic Enterprise
GLOSSARY
Budding or budgrafting - vegetative multiplication by means of budding or
budgrafting a bud onto a seedling rootstock. The
trees obtained by this process are known as clones.
Clone                   - a clone refers to all plants derived vegetatively
from an individual source plant; as such they have
the same genetic composition as the source plant.
Creping mill            - a machine in which coagulated latex and scrap rubber
are macerated and rolled into thin sheets with a
crepe texture. The resulting crepe is air-dried.
Block (Crumb) Rubber   - a process by which either latex coagulated in the
factory or scrap rubber is broken down into crumbs
or granules, dried and then compressed into blocks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Amount:              US$4.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Cofinancier:        UNDP - US$635,000 equivalent, on grant basis, to
finance cost of technical assistance component.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would rehabilitate 15 Government
rubber estates, expand rubber processing capacity and
provide staff training and technical assistance. By
creating an effective and well-trained staff competent
in all aspects of rubber development and by establishing
high-yielding plant material suitable for Burmese con-
ditions, this project would contribute to the rehabi-
litation and expansion of the rubber industry in Burma.
The major direct benefits would be the incremental
production from Government estates which would total
about 28,000 long tons over 15 years (valued at US$25
million) and the incremental employment totalling about
3,200 man-years during the four-year implementation
phase. The project is well within the implementation
capacity of the agencies concerned and involves no
substantial risks beyond those normally associated
with tree crop projects involving introduction of new
technologies.



Estimated Cost:                                              US$ Thousands Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
Major Categories
Estate Rehabilitation                   2,721   1,807    4,528
Rehabilitation of Processing
Facilities                           526      719    1,245
Staff Development and Research            147     209       356
Technical Assistance                       54      484       538
Total Base Cost                   3,448   3,219    6,667
Contingencies
Physical                                  354      246       600
Price                                     811      633    1,444
Subtotal                          1,165      879    2,044
Total Project Cost                4,613   4,098    8,711
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes)                 (3,813) (4,098)  (7,911)
Financing Plan:                                               US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                      1.4       3.1     4.5
UNDP                                      -        0.6      0.6
Government of Burma                      3.2       0.4     3.6
Total                              4.6       4.1      8.7
Estimated                                          US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:                        1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
IDA FY
Annual              -      0.9    1.6    1.1    0.5    0.4
Cumulative         -       0.9    2.5    3.6    4.1    4.5
Rate of Return:       30%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2193a-BA, dated December 20, 1978.
Map:                  IBRD No. 13711



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND'RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for the
equivalent of US$4.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a rubber
rehabilitation project. UNDP will finance the technical assistance component
of the proposed project, US$635,000 equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report entitled, "Burma - Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 1700-BA, October 19, 1977) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on October 26, 1977. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        World War II and the events leading up to Independence in 1948
devastated the Burmese economy and divided the country politically. As
a result, the 1950s were a period of turbulence. In 1962, parliamentary
democracy was declared a failure, and the assembly and high court were
dismissed. In their place, a Revolutionary Council was formed with General
Ne Win as its Chairman, and the Burmese Socialist Program Party (BSPP) was
established as the only authorized political party. After eleven years of
government by the Revolutionary Council, a Constitution was adopted in a
nationwide referendum in December 1973 under which the Pyithu Hluttaw
(People's Assembly) was created with supreme executive, legislative, and
judicial authority.
4.        The guiding philosophy of the present Government, as stated in
the April 1962 document on the Burmese Way to Socialism, is based on a com-
bination of traditional Burmese values and socialist doctrine. Nationalistic
in character, its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty-Year Plan,
which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented through a
succession of five Four-Year Plans. The intent is to fashion a new order
for Burma by reorienting the economy to provide adequate food, clothing and
shelter for the masses and to improve the quality of social services.
5.        By and large, the Government has made notable progress in the
attainment of its social and political objectives. Insurgency is still a
problem, particularly in the hills and border areas, but there is probably
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as the corres-
ponding parts of the President's Report for a Paddyland Development II
Project, dated June 22, 1978 (P-2359-BA). The 1979 Country Economic
Memorandum, currently under preparation, will be issued in March 1979.



greater territorial control by the Government now than at any time since
Independence. Greater equality in the distribution of economic opportunity
has resulted from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size of
holdings among farm families, and the nationalization of a number of major
economic activities in trade and industry. At the same time, the access of
the population ro social services has been expanded, particularly in respect
to education and health facilities.
6.        However, the Government's ability to maintain the social well-being
of the population has been constrained by slow economic growth. Per capita
income at present is about $140 and permits little above basic needs for the
greater part of the population. Urban unemployment is estimated to be over
10% of the labor force, and rural underemployment is substantial.
7.        Burma's economic performance over the last decade and a half
reflected to a significant extent the effects of the particular policies it
adopted to establish economic independence. Capitalism was considered ex-
ploitative and alien. Thus, State control was established over the means of
production and distribution in large parts of the economy and sweeping mea-
sures were taken to reduce the role of the private sector, which was regarded
as being largely synonymous with foreign investments. As public policies and
public sector performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in
private investment and production which resulted, economic growth suffered.
Throughout the period investment levels were low. Gross capital formation
averaged 10-11% of GNP, and even this limited investment was not directed
towards the sectors having the greatest comparative advantage. With invest-
ment in nationalized industry providing the main thrust in the Government's
efforts to reduce the country's reliance on external transactions, key directly
productive sectors of agriculture, forestry and mining did not receive due
attention. The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated the problem.
They were aimed at keeping the cost of living low for the masses, but low
producer prices discouraged the production of paddy and other crops and led to
dwindling export earnings. Furthermore, State industrial enterprises were not
allowed full recovery of their costs, leading to a decline in their financial
surpluses and ultimately in domestic savings. An increasing share of produc-
tion was either traded in the domestic unofficial market or illegally exported
abroad at a multiple of official prices. In both cases, income was siphoned
off by segments of the private sector with little opportunity or inclination
to invest these resources productively. The distortions arising from this
system were compounded by low official interest rates and an overvalued
exchange rate.
8.        As a result, the increase in value added by the directly productive
sectors of the economy scarcely matched population growth, while export
volumes declined for most of the period. Low export earnings, in turn,
reduced the capacity of the economy to import essential raw materials, spares,
and capital equipment which led to increasing underutilization of capacity in
most sectors of the economy and severely limited its ability to invest.
9.        In recognition of the practical problems faced in the implementa-
tion of its overall economic policies in the 1960s, the Government began



pragmatically in the early 1970s to evolve a modified approach to the attain-
ment of its basic objectives. Pricing policy still reflects the desire to
provide basic consumer goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, but it increas-
ingly recognizes the role of prices in creating production incentives and
financial viability. Procurement prices of a variety of agriculture products
have been raised to improve the economic position of the farmer, while others
have been decontrolled. The procurement price for paddy was raised by 150%
between 1972 and 1974. It has, however, remained unchanged since then despite
rapid inflation, although the subsidy of domestic rice sales was eliminated in
1976, leading to a 9% increase in the retail price of rice. In industry, the
Government obtained new costing schedules in 1976 and increased the ex-factory
prices of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) though the adjustments remain
incomplete. New costing schedules were established in 1976 which, in prin-
ciple, allow for the first time profit margins at the producing level. The
official exchange rate of the kyat was reduced by 25% in January 1975 and a
further 9% in 1977 relative to the SDR, thus partially compensating for the
overvaluation of the exchange rate.
10.       In a policy announcement in 1973, the Government reaffirmed its aim
"to transform the economy of Burma from an agricultural to an agriculture-
based industrial country, and thence gradually to an industrial nation." In
the same statement, however, the Government accorded priority at the present
stage of the country's development to improvements in agriculture, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and mining and the establishment of consumer goods indus-
tries based on the raw material resources of the country. More recently, the
need to increase primary product exports has received increasing attention,
and a significant shift in public investment in favor of the primary producing
sectors has been effected.
11.       Managerial and organizational reforms of the SEEs have also been
initiated. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to
enable SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to improve distribution of
their production. The guidelines encourage autonomy in the management of
SEEs, set standards by which their operational performance will be measured,
introduce financial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonus scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance.
12.       A major tax reform was enacted in April 1976.  It included the
introduction of a Commodities and Services Tax and a Profits Tax. At the
same time, the revisions in the selling prices of SEEs in 1976/77, and
improved financial performance, raised the current revenues of boards and
corporations substantially. The reform thus resulted in increasing Union
Government revenue from 9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1976/77, reversing the
decline in domestic savings and halting the rapid expansion in money supply
that fueled a high rate of inflation. It represented a major turnaround in
public finance and was perhaps the most important achievement of the Govern-
ment in recent years.



-4-
13.       These actions have undoubtedly improved the conditions for acceler-
ated economic growth and thereby contributed in a positive manner to economic
performance under the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78). In 1976/77 GDP
is estimated to have risen by 6% in real terms compared to 4.8% in 1975/76 and
2.6% in 1974/75. After a decline in 1974/75, agricultural output growth
recovered mainly because of the favorable weather conditions. The tradition-
ally important forestry and mining sectors showed mixed performance, but a
welcomed development was the expansion of onshore crude oil production by 21%
in 1976/77. With the increased availability of raw material from the primary
sectors and larger imports of intermediate materials and capital equipment,
the growth of the processing and manufacturing sector increased from 4.2% in
1974/75 to 10.6% in 1976/77.
14.       After declining in the early 1970s, gross fixed capital formation
is estimated to have increased in real terms by 16.2% in 1975/76 and 12.6% in
1976/77, although the severe problems of implementation experienced during the
period suggest that these estimates may be scaled down. Along with the
increase in investment, domestic savings expanded. The improved budgetary
position of the Government lessened its dependence on the banking system,
which in turn contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation. During
1976 the consumer price index in Rangoon increased by 22% as compared with 32%
in 1975. The consumer price index declined slightly during 1977, and contin-
ued to decline during the first nine months of 1978.
15.       The value of exports (in US dollars) grew by 9.8% per annum during
1974/75 and 1976/77 in nominal terms, principally as the result of export
price increases for most export products and an expanded volume of rice ex-
ports. This increase in exchange earnings, plus some use of external financ-
ing, enabled imports to rise although Burma's capacity to import continued to
be insufficient in relation to its needs.
16.       Despite these favorable developments, much remains to be done to
put the economy firmly on the path to sustained, more rapid growth. Fur-
ther progress needs to be made in rationalizing the role of agricultural and
industrial prices in the allocation of resources. At present, investment and
production decisions are still chiefly guided by plan targets rather than in
response to changes in production and market conditions. In agriculture,
the Government has established a Rice Commission to examine the appropriate
level of agricultural prices, especially paddy, and this inquiry needs to be
sustained and broadened. In industry, further adjustments of SEE product
prices are required to reflect resource scarcities more accurately, to stimu-
late productivity growth, and to generate surpluses for reinvestment. In
external trade, the impact of the exchange rate needs to be kept under
continuing review, given the importance of greater export growth for the
development of the domestic economy.
17.       Together with the use of prices to allocate resources to the most
productive activities, a sharpening of sectoral development strategy aimed
at rehabilitating productive capacity and ensuring more efficient use of the
national resource endowment is also required.



-5-
18.       The Bank economic reports have drawn attention to the wealth of
Burma's agricultural resources, its importance for the country's economic
development, and the difficulties in sustaining more rapid growth. Apart
from the controlled price system, which militates against fuller realization
of potential and timely adjustments of production to changes in export market
conditions, the problems confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies
of essential farm inputs, inadequate transportation facilities and shortages
of farm power, basic farm services, in particular agricultural credit, and
extension services.
19.       If Burma's agricultural performance is to be improved, intensive
and coordinated action will be necessary to deal with these difficulties.
Along with such action, priority needs to be given to improvements of pro-
ductivity in existing cultivated areas, with emphasis on quick-yielding
projects.
20.       In forestry, Burma is estimated to have 75% of the world's remain-
ing teak reserves in addition to extensive reserves of marketable hardwood.
The rehabilitation of existing and the purchase of new equipment, improved
maintenance, construction of access and feeder roads to forest areas, and
better management and coordination between Government agencies are priority
requirements if the potential of the sector for increased production and
export earnings is to be more fully tapped.
21.       Burma's reserves of mineral products are similarly impressive.
Although only a few areas of the country have been systematically prospected,
it is clear that Burma has a highly varied and favorable endowment of minerals
-- tin and tungsten, lead, zinc, silver and copper. Their effective utiliza-
tion will, however, require that urgent attention be given to the rehabilita-
tion, modernization and maintenance of existing mining operations, institution
building and technical training. The benefits foregone by past neglect and
inadequate management in the post-war period are enormous. A new opportunity
is the development of petroleum resources where current onshore crude oil
production already permits self-sufficiency.
22.       The primary sectors, in turn, provide Burma with a base for indus-
trial development, provided managerial efficiency is improved and research and
development are promoted. In contrast to this potential, investments in the
recent past have concentrated on industries which have not always been in line
with the country's comparative advantages. Notable cases in this connection
are a number of heavy industries where capacity has been built up over the
years to levels that do not permit efficient production. A review of indus-
trial strategy is needed, given the character of the country's resource endow-
ments and the fiscal and balance of payments implications of capital-intensive
industrial development.
23.       Together with the development of the primary and secondary sectors,
greater attention is required for the rehabilitation of the country's physical
infrastructure, in particular transportation. The transport sector is in a
serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment and maintenance.
Only some 60% of the stock of diesel locomotives, 50% of the fleet of trucks
in the public sector, and 75% of inland watercraft are in running condition.



- 6 -
24.       The transportation and communications sector accounted for about 17%
of all development expenditures during 1974/75-1976/77. An expanded share is
justified during the Third Four-Year Plan. Within such an allocation, the
highest priority needs to be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing capacity, although some expansion of capacity in the communications
sector is also required. Also, rationalization of transport pricing policy is
essential. To have any substantial impact, these measures must, in addition,
be accompanied by improvements in operational efficiency and management in the
public sector.
25.       The need for institution building and management development geared
to expanding absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration and
implementation of development programs cannot be overemphasized (para 38).
The Burmese planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex
and rigid in its manner of operation and focuses excessively on the formula-
tion rather than the implementation of targets. Streamlining of the entire
planning and administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision making
and strengthening of the capability of Government entities to prepare and
implement projects are urgently needed.
26.       The Government concurs broadly with the above diagnosis of the prob-
lems it faces and the issues to which attention must urgently be addressed.
If pursued vigorously, and duly supplemented with additional measures, the
Government's new policy orientation should lead to a significant acceleration
of economic growth. In this connection, the recently enacted law on the
"Rights of the Private Enterprise" is welcomed. By legitimizing private
sector activity and establishing a clearer set of guidelines for the develop-
ment of the public, cooperative and private sectors, some re-integration of
the economy will take place which can be expected to have a beneficial impact
upon economic performance.
27.       The targets of the authorities entail GDP growth in real terms of
6.6% per annum under the Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82). Agriculture
is targeted to expand by 5.8% per annum and the processing and manufacturing
sector by 12.2%.
28.       A more modest view of the intermediate-term prospects of the economy,
however, is forecast in the 1977 Burma Country Economic Memorandum because,
unavoidably, it will take some time before recent reforms and intended new
initiatives are fully implemented and begin to have a significant impact.
Annual increases in GDP of 5% in real terms (with agriculture and manufactur-
ing industries growing by 3% and 8.5% per annum, respectively) together with
annual increases in investment of about 13%, constitute a more reasonable set
of expectations. The targets, although modest, are a substantial improvement
of performance over the past decade. The financing of such an investment
effort will require that domestic savings should grow from 8.5% of GNP in
1976/77 to 11.1% in 1981/82, and that substantial foreign transfers of
resources into Burma should continue. While the tasks involved will put heavy
demands on the fiscal, administrative and management capacities of the Govern-
ment, it should be feasible, provided adequate action is taken.



- 7 -
29.       External assistance is needed for projects which contribute towards:
--   intensified and more efficienct use of existing cultivated
areas and the reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture
(research and extension services, supply of essential
inputs especially high-yielding varieties of planting
materials, fertilizer and light agricultural machinery;
improvement of irrigation facilities, in particular,
tubewell development; and integrated agricultural
development);
--   better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction and transport facilities);
--   development of known mineral deposits; and
--   development of agro- and mineral-based industries
possessing clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish and wood products, and fertilizer production).
Alongside such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate existing
capacity in transportation and communications. While project loans and
technical assistance will be justified for most projects in the above fields,
commodity financing also will be required from external resources to meet
Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares, and equipment in support of
its rehabilitation efforts.
30.       Given Burma's low income level and the scarcity of foreign ex-
change, such external assistance should be on concessionary terms and should,
in addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present,
be covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is parti-
cularly needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a
low foreign exchange component.
31.       Burma's debt service ratio has increased from 10% in the sixties
to about 20% in 1976/77 due primarily to a relative decline in exports with
respect to GDP rather than a relative increase in debt servicing. By the
end of March 1977, Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to US$321 million. With increased foreign assistance, external
public debt will rise further, but Burma should have no major problem in
servicing this debt, in view of its moderately favorable export potential.
32.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a healthy
and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with which these
resources will be managed and developed. While there are some signs that
Burma's performance in this regard is now being improved, these need to be
strengthened and broadened. Provided Burma sustains its efforts at utilizing



- 8 -
this endowment efficiently and combines them with a positive attitude towards
population planning, it should make the task of economic development more
manageable and provide increasingly productive employment for its people in
the longer run.
33.       The Bank Group, in close cooperation with the IMF, will continue
discussions with the Government regarding further improvements in economic
policy which would help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
development. At the Government's request, the Bank has organized an Aid Group
for Burma. The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in
Tokyo. In endorsing the measures being taken by the Government to accelerate
economic growth and strengthen Burma's planning and management capabilities,
the Group, in its second meeting held on February 1, 1978, in Paris, assured
the Government that in these efforts it will find the Group responsive in
meeting Burma's requirements for external capital and technical assistance.
The third meeting of the Group is scheduled for April 27, 1979, in Tokyo.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
34.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
35.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1973.  At the request of
the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973. Since 1973 IDA has made
eleven credits totalling US$197.8 million equivalent (net of cancellations),
two of which have been satisfactorily completed and the credits fully dis-
bursed. About 60% of this assistance was channeled to the agricultural
sector, consisting of six projects: irrigation, forestry, livestock, seed
development, and two paddyland development projects. About 21% of IDA's
assistance supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector through three
projects, namely inland water transport, railways, and a second ports project.
The remaining 19% of IDA's assistance has been for one project each in the
telecommunications sector (11%) and the mining sector (8%). The proposed
credit would be the second in FY79, bringing the total of IDA assistance to
Burma to US$202.3 equivalent, net of cancellations. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31, 1978, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no investments in
Burma, nor are any planned.
36.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our on-
going projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved. A
US$3.0 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline suit-
able for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, transport,



-9-
power and industry. The proposed Rubber Rehabilitation Project, as well as
the Seed Development Project (Credit No. 745-BA), were prepared under the
Umbrella Project. A second phase of this Umbrella project is now under dis-
cussion with the Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Association plans
to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help
improve Burmese project preparation capabilities, as well as administrative
and managerial skills through in-service and overseas training.
37.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate con-
straints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying production
for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange. Within this
overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the development of
agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and where possible,
priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same time, finan-
cing of infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas as transporta-
tion and telecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Many
of these are inoperable at present and have increasingly impeded economic
activity in the directly productive sectors of the economy.
38.       The Association intends to assist the Government with the implemen-
tation of these objectives. However, the extent to which the Association
would be able to provide assistance will depend largely on the pace by which
the Government continues to improve overall macroeconomic performance along
the lines noted in paragraphs 16 to 25. In particular, future lending may
be constrained by the low absorptive capacity of implementing agencies, espe-
cially in the agriculture sector. Thus, the Government's action to improve
its absorptive capacity, in particular, to make its administrative machinery
more conducive to development, will essentially determine the scope and volume
of external assistance.
39.       In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
most of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. A major irrigation project,
Nyaunggyat Dam, is being prepared. It is designed to increase food production
in areas of Upper Burma, as well as to meet the raw cotton requirements of the
domestic textile industry. Due to the size of the project, the Association is
exploring co-financing with a number of bilateral donors. A proposed paddy
storage and handling project, as well as a second forestry project, have been
appraised.
40.       Programs to expand production and exports will need to be supported
by complementary improvements in economic infrastructure. In this connection,
a second telecommunications project, prepared by the Government, has been
appraised. It will complement the first telecommunications project (Credit
551-BA, US$21 million) by further rehabilitating the telecommunications
network which is presently inadequate and is a major bottleneck to growth of
productive sectors. The project will help finance the expansion of telex and
telegraph facilities, and extension of existing telecommunication facilities
to meet demand in Rangoon, Mandalay and other smaller towns and rural areas.
It will also help improve international services through a satellite ground
station.



- 10 -
41.       The Bank Group presently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
42.       The agricultural sector, excluding livestock, forestry, and fishe-
ries, accounted for about 40% of GDP in 1976/77 in current prices and employed
65% of the labor force. Agricultural products, primarily rice and teak,
account for about 85% of all exports. About 60% of Burma's industrial output
stems from the processing of agricultural crops including cotton, jute and
sugarcane. Rice is by far the most important crop, accounting for about 50%
of the agricultural output and more than half of the sown area. Prior to
World War II, Burma was one of the world's largest rice exporters and, while
rice production has grown less rapidly than domestic demand, rice and rice
products are still the major exports. Other major crops in terms of sown area
include sesamum, pulses and groundnuts; other crops include maize, cotton,
sugarcane, wheat, chillies, jute, tobacco, onions, coconut and rubber. The
agricultural sector performed poorly over the decade prior to 1975/76; its
growth rate, estimated to be 1.6% per annum, was less than both the 2.3%
growth in GDP and the 2.2% population growth. During this decade, export
volumes decreased by about two-thirds largely due to declining rice exports.
The poor performance of the agricultural sector was a major cause of Burma's
economic deterioration over the past decade. Its origins can be traced to
insufficient public and private investment in agriculture, to inadequate
production incentives, and to shortages of inputs including agricultural
support services. There has been a considerable improvement in the sector's
performance in 1975/76 and 1976/77 with an annual growth rate averaging about
5%, reflecting both more favorable weather conditions and Government action
to redress past problems.
43.       The Government has recently re-ordered its development priorities
to give more emphasis to agriculture and other primary producing sectors.
The Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82) calls for agricultural output to
increase by 5.8% annually. The Government has increased agriculture's share
of State capital expenditure from about 10% for the period 1968/69 to 1974/75
to about 20% for the period 1977/78 to 1981/82. Over the past few years, the
Government has also increased procurement prices for major crops and attempted
to improve input availability and agricultural support services.
44.       At present, the private sector accounts for about 99.7% of agricul-
tural output, excluding livestock and fisheries. The Government is considering
some structural adjustments in the agricultural sector such that by 1994, state
farms are expected to account for 10% of the cultivated area; the cooperative
sector, 50%; and the private sector, 40%. However, neither the means nor the
pace for achieving these adjustments has been specified.



- 11 -
The Rubber Subsector
45.       Rubber was introduced in the far south of Burma about one hundred
years ago. The trees grew successfully in the Tenasserim salient and rubber
acreage reached about 30,000 ac by the turn of the century and 120,000 ac by
1930. The acreage declined during the economic depression of the thirties
and the industry was completely disrupted by World War II. Since then, the
acreage increased, partly as the result of Government planting, to reach a
peak of 214,000 ac in 1973, but declined again in recent years and is now esti-
mated at 207,000 ac. The main rubber growing area remains the Tenasserim
salient, comprising Mon State and Tenasserim Division, which accounts for 82%
of the planted rubber. The remainder is scattered in the ecologically less
suitable areas north and northwest of the Tenasserim salient. Only 57% of
the total planted area is currently being exploited with the balance either
immature (about 11%) or abandoned (about 32%). The abandoned rubber is
generally overaged and unproductive although some potentially productive
rubber may have been abandoned due to security problems. The private sector,
comprising smallholders 1/ with 54% of the total area, and private estates,
with 28% of the total area, together control 169,000 ac with 100,000 ac
currently exploited. The remaining 18% or 38,000 ac is controlled by the
Rubber Section (RS) of the Agriculture Corporation (AC) which owns and
operates 23 government rubber estates. The Government is the sole legal
buyer of rubber in Burma and, through the AC, sets procurement targets for
individual producers. Of the three creping mills for processing rubber, two
are government-owned and the third, privately-owned mill operates solely for
the Government under contract. The Government also controls the marketing of
all rubber for both domestic consumption and export.
46.       Burma's total annual rubber production has fluctuated around 14,000
tons for the past decade, or about 0.4% of total world production. Official
estimates of rubber exports have averaged about 7,300 tons annually since
1965/66, although there has been considerable fluctuation between years.
Official exports have contributed an average of US$3.3 million per year since
1970, representing approximately 2.4% of total exports. These exports do not
include a substantial quantity of rubber which is unofficially exported. Such
exports are estimated to vary between 3,000 and 6,000 tons annually or 40% to
80% of official exports. Most of the unofficial exports originate from
smallholdings in the southern half of Tenasserim Division where there is
relatively easy access by sea to Malaysia and overland to Thailand. Without
rehabilitation of the rubber subsector and with increasing domestic demand,
rubber exports would be reduced by about half this level in ten years. With
the strong prospects in the export market, however, Burma should have little
difficulty finding markets for significantly greater rubber production and
exports.
1/   Defined as operating less than 100 ac.  The latest data on ownership
(1963) indicate that there were 14,250 smallholdings and only 200 planta-
tions larger than 100 ac.



- 12-
47.       Due to inadequate maintenance and reinvestment in recent years,
rubber yields in Burma currently average about 275 lb per tapped acre which
is about 25% of average Malaysian yields. The industry faces the prospect of
continued decline if productivity is not improved by replanting with modern
high-yielding cultivars, introducing modern exploitation practices, and reha-
bilitating both the production and processing facilities. The cause of the
industry's decline has been the failure to maintain investments, uue mainly
to: (i) the disruptions during World War II and subsequent insurgency in Mon
State and Tenasserim Division after independence in 1948; (ii) the lack of
confidence of the private sector, and in particular the private estate sector,
following the Land Nationalization Acts of 1948 and 1953; and (iii) the lack
of financial incentives for the smallholders to replant. The situation is
further exacerbated by a shortage of trained manpower. With appropriate invest-
ments, yields from existing plantings could be increased 25%-50%, yields from
new plantings could more than double even the yields from upgraded existing
plantings, and processing could be concentrated in the more profitable higher
grade ranges.
48.       Rehabilitation of the rubber subsector is made difficult by current
Government policies. The private estate operators appear to be reluctant to
rehabilitate their estates partly because the 30-year Government guarantee of
non-nationalization, which expires in 2003, may provide insufficient security
for their slow-yielding investment. Both the private estate operators and the
smallholders regard present financial returns from rubber as inadequate, parti-
cularly in Tenasserim Division where relatively lucrative but unofficial trad-
ing opportunities have driven wages to three times the official Government
rate. As the Government is reluctant to provide indirect grants for replant-
ing and since there is, at present, no agency capable of administering long-
term credit to rubber producers, institutional financing for rubber rehabili-
tation in the private sector is not available. Finally, in part of the rubber
producing areas, insecurity resulting from insurgent activity has discouraged
rehabilitation both through its effect on labor supply and through the invest-
ment risk it poses.
49.       Given the existing constraints to rehabilitation in the private
sector, the Government sector currently offers a better investment opportunity.
While the Government sector accounts for only 14% of total rubber production,
rehabilitation of Government estates would increase rubber production for ex-
port. Furthermore, it would revitalize supporting services in the sector and
contribute to the rehabilitation of the rubber industry. The Government has
endorses the strengthening of the RS to be staffed with officers competent in
modern rubber husbandry, as well as the production of proven suitable planting
material. The Government has accorded a high priority to rehabilitation of
its estates under the current Four-Year Plan and has already greatly increased
its importation of the improved planting material required to replant over-aged
and less productive trees. The Government, however, would require external
assistance to make the necessary supporting investments in estate equipment,
civil works, processing facilities, staff training and technical assistance.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with assistance
from consultants financed under the UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Umbrella
Project). The project was appraised in November 1977, with a follow-up mission
in March 1978. A report entitled "Burma: Staff Appraisal Report - Rubber
Rehabilitation Project" (No. 2193a-BA) dated December 20, 1978, is being cir-
culated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. during December 4 to 11, 1978. The Borrower's delegation was
led by U Khin Win, Managing Director, Agriculture Corporation, Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests.
Project Objectives
51.       The objectives of the proposed project are to increase the quantity
and improve the quality of rubber produced by 15 Government estates and to
upgrade and expand rubber processing capacity. The project will establish
a staff within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF), well-trained
in modern techniques of rubber production, and provide improved planting
materials, thus contributing to the rehabilitation of the rubber industry in
Burma.
Project Description
52.       The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) provision of agricultural equipment, vehicles, processing
facilities, and housing, to rehabilitate 15 Government
rubber estates;
(b) establishment of 4,500 ac of high-yielding rubber on Govern-
ment estates in Tenasserim Division to replace over-aged,
unproductive rubber (3,375 ac) and to expand the area under
new plantings (1,125 ac);
(c) introduction of modern tree exploitation practices on all
Government rubber estates in the project area including
improved husbandry for immature rubber, upward and high-
level tapping for older trees, and yield stimulation;
(d)  rehabilitation of two Government creping mills by replac-
ing worn out equipment and expanding the capacity of Burma's
only crumb rubber plant;
(e) provision of in-service and overseas training for the
RS staff and estate staff;
(f) provision of 76 man-months of technical assistance to the
RS to assist with and supplement the staff training activ-
ities; and



- 14 -
(g) introduction of a small-scale adaptive research program to
test planting materials, investigate the feasibility of
replanting in Mon State, and improve rubber productivity
generally.
Organization and Implementation
53.       The Government rubber estates and the service and commercial func-
tions for the rubber industry are now managed by the RS which is part of the
Procurement, Distribution, Planning and Statistics Division of the AC. The
proposed project would be implemented by the RS. The General Manager of
the RS would report directly to the Managing Director of the AC. Assurances
have been obtained that the RS head office would be headed by an officer of
General Manager rank whose experience and qualifications are satisfactory to
the Association [Section 3.06(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement
(DCA)]. The General Manager would have a small head office staff located in
Rangoon to provide support for the field staff and to monitor project progress.
It was further agreed that the RS's head office would be adequately staffed
and provided with, inter alia, not less than eleven officers, whose experience
and qualifications are satisfactory to the Association [Section 3.06(b) of the
draft DCA].
54.       The Government has proposed a major reorganization within MAF which
would result, inter alia, in the creation of an Agriculture Department (AD)
to replace the existing AC. AD would have responsibility for agricultural
research, extension, input supply, land use planning, and plantation crops.
A new division, the Plantation Crop Division (PCD), which would be created
within AD, would have responsibility for all aspects of plantation crop produc-
tion in both the state and private sectors. In the proposed reorganization,
PCD would assume, inter alia, the current responsibilities of the RS. The PCD
would, therefore, carry out the service functions of extension and research
and the commercial functions of Government estate management, rubber procure-
ment, processing, and marketing. The timing of the reorganization of the AC
has not yet been determined.
55.       In order to increase the productivity of all estate workers, it
was agreed that the incentive scheme presently in effect for rubber tappers
on the Government estates would be extended to the remaining project estate
workers [Section 3.05(a) of the draft DCA]. Agreement has also been reached
that, in the event the existing incentive scheme is modified or abolished,
an alternative incentive scheme acceptable to the Association would be main-
tained [Section 3.05(b) of the draft DCA]. The Government has also agreed
to take all necessary measures to ensure that the project estates are ope-
rated on the basis of sound commercial principles [Section 3.05(c) of the
draft DCA]. Assurances were obtained that the RS and each project estate
would keep separate accounts adequate to reflect the operation and financial
condition of each estate and that the RS would consolidate these records with
its own accounts to produce statements of sources and uses of funds, income
and expenditure, and balance sheet [Sections 4.01(a) and (b) of the draft DCA].



- 15 -
56.       The Government has already completed its survey of Government
rubber estates in Tenasserim Division and has identified areas suitable for
replanting and new plantings totalling more than 4,500 ac. The proposed imple-
mentation schedule calls for rehabilitation work on the estates in Tenasserim
Division selected for replanting or new planting to be completed before com-
mencing rehabilitation of the estates in Mon State. With the assistance of
the RS head office and the consultants (para 58), the project estate managers,
who would report directly to the RS head office, would each prepare a five-
year development and operation plan to be updated annually [Section 3.09(a) of
the draft DCA]. The RS would amalgamate these plans in an overall five-year
development and operation plan to be submitted to IDA not later than September
30, 1979, and annually thereafter by April 1 of each subsequent year [Section
3.09(b) of the draft DCA]. The Government estates would also be used to carry
out adaptive research under the direction of RS Deputy General Manager (Estates
and Research). With the assistance of the consultants (para 58), RS would
prepare and submit annually to the Association (i) by December 31 of each
year, beginning December 31, 1979, a five-year research program; and (ii) by
June 30 of each year, beginning June 30, 1980, a research report detailing RS
research activities and findings and indicating its proposed future activities
[Section 3.09 (c) of the draft DCA].
57.       The two Government creping mills are currently operated by two
separate Government corporations under contract to the RS, and would remain
under their control. Assurances have been obtained that the mills would be
adequately rehabilitated and efficiently operated (Section 3.08 of the draft
DCA). The crumb rubber processing plant at Thanbyuzayat and all sheet pro-
cessing factories on the Government estates would be under the direct control
of RS. The Rubber Processing Officer in the RS head office would be respon-
sible for ensuring efficient operation of the facilities and would advise the
management of the two Government creping mills on the operation of those mills.
58.       About 268 man-months of in-service training would be provided for
Government estate staff by senior RS staff and project consultants; the courses
would include commercial estate operation, annual refresher courses with em-
phasis on modern rubber husbandry, and training in budding techniques. Senior
RS staff would participate in study tours to visit commercial and government
estates and research facilities in other countries and undertake specific
course work at overseas universities and at the Rubber Research Institute of
Malaysia (RRIM). The RS would prepare and submit to the Association an annual
plan for overseas training of its staff indicating selected candidates and
training institutions, the first such plan to be presented to the Association
by July 1, 1979 (Section 4.02 of the draft DCA). In addition, the Government
would retain about 76 man-months of consultant services to assist RS staff to
implement the proposed project and prepare a subsequent project (Section 3.02
of the draft DCA). Consultants would be employed by the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO), the Executing Agency on behalf of the UNDP. The con-
sultants would provide in-service training and advice on modern commercial
estate operations and development planning, adaptive research, monitoring
and evaluation, soil survey and land use, pathology, processing and training.
The technical assistance program has been designed to establish work programs



- 16 -
which would be implemented by the RS staff, with periodic visits by the
consultants. The Government has agreed on a draft terms of reference for
these consultants.
59.       Project performance would be continually monitored by an internal
monitoring unit set up in the RS head office and reporting directly to the
General Manager. This unit would consist of a full-time Monitoriiig Officer
and a full-time Field Monitor. These officers would be assisted by staff
from the Accounts and Administration Section of the RS as required. Project
operations would be restricted primarily to the fifteen Government rubber
estates in the project area and monitored using the existing estate recording
systems supplemented by specific field observations as necessary. The con-
sultants would assist RS staff in the development of a satisfactory project
monitoring system. The Government's Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting
Department (PAPRD) would assist the RS in preparing a draft project completion
report [Section 3.04(c) of the draft DCA].
Cost and Financing
60.       The total project cost is estimated at US$8.7 million, including
contingencies and about US$0.8 million in taxes. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is estimated at US$4.1 million, about 47% of the total project cost, of
which the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) would finance about
US$635,000 equivalent for the technical assistance component. The proposed
IDA Credit of US$4.5 million would finance US$3.1 million equivalent of the
foreign exchange cost of the project and US$1.4 million equivalent of local
cost. External sources would contribute about 65% of total project cost net
of taxes. The Government would finance the balance of US$3.6 million equiv-
alent, including US$0.4 million equivalent of foreign exchange costs for the
equipment reserved for procurement under local procedures (para 61). The
Government funds would be made available in the form of annual budgetary
allocations to the RS. The cost of technical assistance, including overheads,
travel and per diem, is estimated at US$8,400 per man-month.
Procurement
61.       The RS would be responsible for all procurement under the project.
Equipment for estate rehabilitation and processing facilities, (US$0.77 mil-
lion equivalent 1/) would be procured through international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank Group Procurement Guidelines. A preference of
15% of the cif price or the prevailing duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-
shelf items costing less than US$50,000 for each contract, which are either
required urgently or are not suitable for international tendering, would be
purchased through normal Government procurement procedures, which are satis-
factory to the IDA. Purchases of such equipment would be limited to a total
of US$200,000 excluding duties and taxes. Small tractors, trailers, water
pumps, other small equipment, and vehicles (about US$0.4 million equivalent)
1/   Excluding duties, taxes and contingencies.



- 17 -
would be reserved for procurement under local procedures and would not be
eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit. The RS
would procure estate supplies comprising yield stimulants, fencing materials,
fungicides, other agricultural chemicals, cover crop seeds and sheet process-
ing chemicals (US$0.77 million equivalent 1/) following normal Government
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association.
62.       Civil works (US$1.28 million equivalent 1/) would comprise a large
number of small, relatively simple works, widely scattered through the project
area, which would not be suitable for international competitive bidding. The
RS would be responsible for the construction of almost all such works (US$1.20
million equivalent 1/) using force account. Assurances were obtained that the
Government would (i) empower the RS to construct buildings which have a unit
cost per building of not more than K 100,000 (US$13,900 equivalent) and (ii)
ensure that the necessary building materials are available to the RS in a
timely manner [Section 3.07(a) of the draft DCA]. Construction of buildings
costing more than K 100,000 each would be carried out by the Construction
Corporation (CC) under contract to the RS (US$0.08 million equivalent 1/).
The RS would submit to the Association not later than July 1 of each year,
beginning July 1, 1979, an annual work plan for all civil works to be carried
out under the proposed project [Section 3.07(b) of the draft DCA] together
with a draft contract, satisfactory to the Association, for the execution of
construction work by CC on behalf of the RS [Section 3.07(c) of the draft
DCAI.
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would be made against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, estate
supplies and processing chemicals; (b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory)
for equipment, estate supplies and processing chemicals manufactured locally;
(c) 70% of local expenditures for other equipment, estate supplies and pro-
cessing chemicals procured locally (off-the-shelf); (d) 100% of foreign ex-
penditures for training; (e) 70% of local expenditures for civil works; and
(f) new plantings of rubber at the rate of US$240 equivalent per acre.
64.       Disbursements for project plantings (US$1.0 million equivalent)
would be made against statements of expenditures indicating those project
plantings which had been satisfactorily established, up to a maximum of 4,500
ac. Project plantings would be inspected by the consultants twelve months
after planting. Disbursements for estate supplies would be limited to the
incremental requirements during the first two years of the project, estimated
to amount to roughly US$0.7 million equivalent excluding duties and taxes.
Marketing
65.       During the next fifteen years, the demand for rubber will continue
to be determined largely by the growth of the automotive industry. Even under
1/   Excluding duties, taxes and contingencies.



- 18 -
conservative economic growth assumptions, world consumption of elastomers
should continue to expand at a healthy rate, allowing both natural and syn-
thetic rubber producers ample scope for expansion. Natural rubber accounts
for about 30% of the world's elastomer market and has a substantial cost
advantage over polyisoprene, the synthetic elastomer which competes most
directly with natural rubber. Unless the major producing countries take steps
to expand the natural rubber supply, it will grow at below market potential
and the continued demand growth expected in the 1980s will have to be met by
faster expansion of synthetic rubber capacity. Assuming constant crude oil
prices and no excessive expansion of basic petrochemical production capacity
during the 1980s, the world price of natural rubber (RSS1, which is the
standard grade) is expected to be about USJ45-51 per pound cif New York in
constant terms by 1990, compared to USg42 per pound in 1977. The current
price of standard grade rubber is USJ46 per pound cif New York. Domestic
sales prices have historically been about 90% of fob export prices and 35%
above domestic procurement prices. Burma currently exports about 87% of its
total rubber output; although domestic demand is expected to grow rapidly,
especially if the Government establishes the proposed domestic tire plant,
most of the rubber produced by Burma will continue to be exported.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       The proposed project would rehabilitate 15 Government rubber estates,
expand rubber processing capacity and provide staff training and technical
assistance. The major direct benefit would be the incremental production on
the Government estates resulting from the replanting of over-aged and low-
yielding rubber, from new plantings, and from improved husbandry and exploita-
tion techniques for replanted, new, and existing plantings. Annual incremental
production is estimated to reach 3,600 long tons by 1993/94 valued at US$3.3
million and total incremental production would reach 28,000 long tons over 15
years valued at US$25.0 million. The project would provide incremental employ-
ment totalling about 3,200 man-years during the four-year implementation.
Civil works would provide about 1,200 incremental man-years and replanting and
maintenance activities would provide about 3,200 incremental man-years; these
would be partially offset by a reduction of about 1,200 man-years for produc-
tion activities due to more efficient production and processing techniques.
Most of the employment opportunities would go to landless families or would
supplement the incomes of families with insufficient land to employ fully
family labor resources. Improvement and expansion of Burma's sole crumb rubber
processing facility would provide Burma with valuable experience in the pro-
duction of technically specified rubber while offering the opportunity for
Burma to establish its credentials as a producer of specified rubbers which
are increasingly in demand. By creating an effective and well-trained staff
competent in all aspects of rubber development and by establishing high-
yielding plant material suitable for Burmese conditions, the proposed project
could pave the way for rehabilitation and expansion of the entire rubber
industry.
67.       The financial rate of return to the project investment is about 17%.
This rate of return represents a conservative estimate, since the analysis



- 19 -
assumes that most of the incremental output from Government estates would be
sold on the domestic market, rather than exported and therefore reflects the
lower revenues obtained when all output is valued at domestic rather than
world prices. The economic rate of return of the project is estimated to be
30%. Sensitivity analysis shows that, even with project costs increased by
10% or the valv1e of the proposed project's incremental production decreased
by 10%, the economic rate of return would still remain above 25%.
68.       The proposed project is exposed to the risk of introduction of a
rubber technology as yet unproven in Burma. The accumulated experience with
high-yielding clones and modern exploitation techniques in nearby Malaysia,
Thailand and Indonesia permit a high degree of confidence that suitable
improved technologies exist and can be successfully introduced to Burma.
Provision of extensive staff training and technical assistance will also
minimize any risk that the modern technology is incorrectly applied. The
risks attached to project execution appear to be minimal, given the assurances
obtained on the incentive scheme and the operation of Government estates on a
commercial basis (para 55). Finally, the possible security risks are reduced
by concentrating the proposed project area on Government estates, where labor
availability and cost, as well as security of investment, are more assured.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Repub-
lic of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 25, 1979



-20 -                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 3                                    Page  1  of  5 pages
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND ARtA (THOUSAND SQ.DIN.)                BUMA                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           676.6                                                 SAHZ        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    107.5                               DMST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /1   1970 lb ESTIATE ^         REGION L   GROUP Ld   GROUP La
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 50.0        80.0    140.0            167.4     182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAHS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     55.0        58.0     51.0            65.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(HILLIONS)                       21.8        27.0     31.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.1       19.9      23.2           12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      32.0        40.0      47.0           85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0      253.0    293.0           322.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.0        40.0     40.5            44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        56.0        57.0     55.9            52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.0       3.6            2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROVTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.8         2.2       2.2            2.2        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.7         3.7       4.6            4.2        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.6        41.3      39.5           45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.4        19.3      15.8           17.3       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         2.7       2.7            3.2        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (T80USANDS)      ..          ..       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       ..            13.7       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           104.9       100.0      97.8           95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  90.4       101.0    103.0            91.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        49.0      58.0           49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      12.1        13.0 f   12.9             12.6      13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    30.9 a        ..       ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   45.0        47.5      50.1           43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         129.9          ..      48.3           99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.0      17.0           30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              ,,        35.0      31.0           66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..        13.0      14.0           17.2       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        35.0      33.0            15.7      16.1        37.5
URBAN                              ..        45.0      38.0           66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              *-        32.0      32.0            2.5        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        12270.0      8970.0   5440.0          8830.8   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    11310.0     7540.0   6260.0          8479.3    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1980.0      1200.0   1200.0 /f,h    1624.5    1157.6         786.5
URBAN                              *-       250.0    250.0 /f.h         ..      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              *-    15820.0   6070.0 /f.h          ..    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        34.0      39.0 /f          ..        19.5       19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.6          ..       ..              ..        5.2
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..              ..        4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             ..         1.8        2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TTAL                               ..          ..        ..             ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        8.7        10.3



- 21 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  2  of  5  pages
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BURMA                                                      /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Le   GROUP td    GROUP te
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  56.0         87.0       85.0              59.1        62.9         75.8
FEKALE                 52.0         83.0       81.0              38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   10.0         25.0       26.0              19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                  7.0         20.0       21.0               9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  0.5             1.4        1.4               1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              42.0         47.0       44.0 If           38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                               .         32.0       33.0 tf           23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          59.7 tR                 67.0              35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUHPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.8          1.0        1.2               2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TWUSAND
POPULATION                            6.0         15.0       22.0              14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              .                                .                  2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                 15.0       11.0               6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0                        8.1 tf                        1.4           1.6
EMPLOYMENT
MTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10600.0          10920.0   12300.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     40.1         36.9       36.4              21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                68.0         70.0       67.0              62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.3         15.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  47.8         42.9       41.2              35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   58.0         54.1       52.9              52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 37.8         31.1       29.8              15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9           1.1        1.1              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6 ti                                      18 6        20 3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.7 /i                    40.01t           42.8         45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    6.5 a                      8.0 /f            7 3         5 7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5 I                     21.0 If           19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                        60.0             80.2        88.5         155.9
RURAL                                                .       40.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                          .                         100 8        143 7
RURAL                                                        29.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   .                    25.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                                .       24.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1972;   /i  1962;   /h  General hospitals only;   /i  1958, Rangoon.
September, 1978



- 22 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mveans, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data asd is not uniform. Doe to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and escreta disposal, housing, income distributisn and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population pee I.osital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, anvd rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private geseral and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      hahilitati-n  centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                               a- least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - lNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion    ahod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sirtast, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a lii.ited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONISUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from bispitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATTSTICS                                                              A hounohold consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (milions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average numr  f persons per coon - total, urban, and total - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of prsor-s per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccapied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
s,,iy.                                                                                    of total, urban, and coral dwe11iogs respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth ratet (r total            , and urban - Compound annual                 Primary shool- total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total sod urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         or the primary level an percetages of r-spectvely primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      catios enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average .oding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       above the official school age.
Crude death rote (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secandarv schoul - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary eduea-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1950 and 1970                     ticn requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vccational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Groes ce-rcdaccio   cat  -Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages er.ding in 1960,                  Vocational e,rr1i1eot (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude ne ia,industrial, or other program  which opera.te independently
Family planniog - acceorr, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                            or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, aod secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary aod secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage ef                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      _OSCS_PTI()N
linden of food production per capita (1970-1O) - Index number of per                    Pasenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating lens than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in c austry per capira               Radio receiv-es (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thoosand of population; excludes uslicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receive-s in rountries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since m.ost countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
.al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TLI receivers (per thousand nopulation  - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of orcein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Neunnaper circulation fpe thousand popolation) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Reqoirenents for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted prinarily to recording general mews.  It is considered to
a mini.mu  allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day aod 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four tiros a week.
of aninal asd pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cioe'a annual a          e       ca      per vear - BPsed an the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    ..ld during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinenas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAD in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and Pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYYENT
derived from animals and pulses in grass per day.                                     Total labor force (tl ousaods) - Efonoomially active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces aud anemployed tut eocluding housevives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, tn children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
yemale (percert) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (yercent) - Labor force in farmirg, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
romaining at birth; usually five-year -verages onding in 1960, 197f,                  Iriuscry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, masufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Irfant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infaots under                   Participatior rare (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 e.sale labor fo-ce an percentages of their respective popslations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are TLO's adjsstrd participation rates reflectirg age-sen
lasber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structre of the pepl3tion. and Surg time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bht                   Ecoromic de, endency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and h5 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INrOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percenraoe of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  tn rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      o1 households.
spend a disproportionate pert of the day in fetching the fa-ily's
cater needs.                                                                         POVERIY TARGET GROlPi
Acc tsa o excreta dispoa __(percent of populaton) - total, urban, and                   t   r,     i     nco        m o   ieol 115$ par rapina) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rcral) served by excreta                       Absolute p-eerty ieco-e level is that incone level below chich a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Eicreta                        nutritionaily adequate diet plus essential non-food requi-ements is not
disposal nay include tho c1laection and dioposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of humao e-creta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relatioe poverty income lapel (iSS per capita) - urban and rorel -
or the -sa of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative peverty incom.e leoel i  that incomo level less than one-third
yPsiatiop   ohvsioian - Population divided by number of practicing                          per capcra personal income of tie country.
phynicians qualified from a medical school at university lonel.                       Estimad population below pavertr income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Popolanion peor ouruing parson - PoPpuation  diridad by numbor of                          Porcent ar populaton  (urban and rural) who are elther "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         '-elati-e foor" whichever is greater.
ussistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Ecmonoic Analysis and Projections Department



- 23-                             ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 5 pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1977                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (G.. constant prices)
US $ Mln.        %                      FY1965-70          FY1970-77           FY1965-77
GNP at Market Prices          3,968           100.0                        2.0               3.5                 2.6
Gross Capital Formation          406           10.2                      - 3.7             - 0.8               - 1.9
Gross Domestic Saving            339            8.5                          -                 -                    _
Foreign Capitak Inflow           67             1.7                          -                 -                   _
Exports of Goods, NFS           212             5.3                     - 13.6              4.3                - 3.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           270            6.8                     - 10.5             - 7.8                - 8.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY 1977
a!
Value Added                           Labor Forcer'                   V. A. Per Worker
AS$Mln.        7                       Mln.         7%                    US $          X
Agriculture b/                  1868           46.7                  8.4        67.8                    222          68
Industry                        355             8.9                 0.9          7.1                   394         121
Services/Trade                 1706           42.7                  2.3         18.3                   742         228
Unallocated  c/                  68             1.707                            6.8                    97          30
Total                     3997          100.0                 12.3        100.0                   325         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Union Government
(KyaFs Mm.)          % of _GP                  (Kyats  Mln.)  %_    of GDP
FY77                FY77                        FY77               ____=
Current Receipts                       4803 V/               17.9 a/                     3376                12.6E
Current Expenditure                    3854                  14.4                        3762                14.1
Current Surplus                         949                   3.5                       - 386               -
Capital Expenditures                   1704                   6.4                         400
External Assistance (grosi)             799                   3.0                
* All data for FY 1977 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/ TIta-l labor force: unemployed are allocated to seccor of their normal occupation.
b/ Includes livestock, fishery and forestry.
c/ Mining, power, and construction.
d/ Includes current surpluis/deficit of Boards and Corporations.
not available
not applicabls



- 2 4 -                               ANNEX I
Page  5 of 5 pages
COUNTRY DATA - BUaM
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976        1977
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    Sep.       Sep.       Sep.       Sep.       Mar.       Mar.       Mar.        Mar.
(mln Kyats outctanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                     2422       2399       2793       3581       4065       5342       6052        6335
Bank Credit to Public Sector              2616       3043       3676      4342       5040        6447      6663        6429
Bank Credit to Private Sector              537        557        668       1000        685        639        956       1457
(Percentages or Index Nutbers)
Money and Quasi Money as h of GDP         23.6       23.0       25.9       30.5       27.7       27.6       25.7        23.7
General Price Index (1972 - 100)          91.0       92.9      100.0      123.5      156.6     206.4      252.6
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       -4.0        2.1        7.6       23.5       26.8       31.8       22.4
Bank credit to Public Sector               9.1       16.3       20.8       18.1       16.1       27.9        3.4         3.5
Bank credit to Private Sector              3.9        3.7       19.9       49.7    - 31.5       - 6.7      49.6        52.4
BALANCE OF PAYMfNTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY 1977)
(USS mln)
FY75    FY76      FY77                                                   US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)                     Rice and rice produces              109       51
Teak                                 57       27
Merchandise Trade               -99.9   .30.9      -58.8                Pulses and beans                       9       4
Exports, mainly f.o.b.         f7E6      U-9-      192.8                Animal feedatuff                      7        3
Imports, mainly f.o.b.        -276.5  -210.8    -251.6                  Base metals and ores                  8        4
Services and private transfers 11.4  - 18.7    -  8.3
Official grants (net)      21      .    ~            02                 All other commodities                23       11
Total                         213      100
Current account              -67.3   -26.3        36.8
EXTERNAL DEBT. March 31, 1977
Long-term capital               117.2    25.0       41.6
Foreign loans                   85-.7    39.8       86.7                                                          US $ Mln
Debt repayment                - 23.5   -23.1       -39.2
Other capital (net)              55.0     8.3      - 5.9                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Short-term bank credit          32.8   -18.3       -18.8                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 320.9
Total outstanding & Disbursed
Capital account              150.0      6.7       22.8                Tt   outstaTin f  D bursed
DEBT SER1r5CE RATIO for FY77=
Errors and omissions             9.5   - 9.2        -6,0                                                            7
overall balance               92.2   -28.8       -20.0                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  19.6
Total outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)    172.5   134.9        109.3
Net Reserves   (end year)       38.9    39.7       40.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING.November 30, 1978(M.11ion US$):
Through Dec. 27, 1971    From Feb.19,1973 to Jan.25,1975                                                 IBRD         IDA
US $ 1.00 - K. 4.76        US$1.00 - K. 4.81
From Jan.25,1975 to May 1, 1977       Outstanding & Disbursed                             77.4
From Dec.27,1971 to       SDR 1.00 - K. 7.74                     Undisbursed                                       120.4
Feb.19,1973            US$1.00 -  K.6.67                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                     197.8
US $ 1.00 - K. 5.35
As of May 2, 1977
SDR 1.00 - K. 8.51
US$J1.00 - K. 7.20(approxmate)
a/ To be revised pending completion of next economic report
report in March 1979.
b/ Ratio of Debt Service to Merchandise Exports.
not available                    South Asia Programs Department,
not applicable                     Division C
December,1978.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of December 31, 1978
US$ Million
Loan or                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and two credits fully disbursed           33.1      32.3
483       1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation               -       17.0        4.3
493       1974  Burma   Forestry                      -       24.0       13.2
551       1975  Burma   Telecommunications            -       21.0        6.6
597       1975  Burma   Livestock                     -        7.5        6.2
642       1976  Burma   Paddyland Development         -       30.0       23.6
671       1977  Burma   Second Ports                  -       10.0        8.1
686       1977  Burma   Tin and Tungsten              -       16.0       15.4
745       1977  Burma   Seed Development              -        5.5        5.5
835       1978  Burma   Paddyland Development II   -          34.5      34.5
Total                                   33.1    197.8
of which has been repaid              33.1       -
Total now outstanding                     -      197.8
Amount sold                   2.7
of which has been repaid  2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a           -      197.8
Total Undisbursed                                117.4      117.4
Total Disbursed                                   80.4
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Cr. No. 483    Trrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
The Project Implementation Committee was established on time and
is functioning effectively. In January 1975, the contract for procurement
of 10,000 pumps and accessories was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy
Industries Corporation. All units have been delivered. Favorable costs on
various components of the project have been sufficient to permit the purchase
of 3,000 additional low lift pumps. The jute baling machines have been in-
stalled and are operating. Some 545 units of construction equipment were
rehabilitated under the equipment repair program. Nearly all spare parts
have been delivered and a reasonable inventory remains for future maintenance.
The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments and drainage channels
is now completed. The closing date of the credit has been extended from
December 31, 1978 to March 31, 1980, in order to allow for disbursements
covering consulting services for the preparation of final design and speci-
fications for the proposed Nyaunggyat Dam Project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 10, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
Project implementation continues to improve. Spares availability
has increased and urgently needed parts are now received via air freight. The
government has taken effective action to improve mechanical maintenance and
is in the final stage of negotiating joint-venture consultant services to
improve management accounting. Progress in sawmill rehabilitation and con-
struction is excellent. Hardwood extraction is presently limited to about
50% of target due to a shortage of logging trucks, which remains the outstand-
ing problem of the project. The Government is expected to take action shortly
to remedy this problem. Fuel shortages have recurred, hindering project
operations. A second forestry project is currently being appraised. It is
likely to include road-building, teak and hardwood extraction, sawmilling
and plantation establishment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 551    Telecommunications Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of May 30,
1975; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Procurement action has been taken on all major items and 95% of the
credit amount has been committed. Due to initial delays in preparation of
specification, procurement and contracting and delays in civil works, execu-
tion of the project is about a year behind schedule. The OPEC Special Fund
is providing a loan to finance a cost overrun of about $3.1 million. Cost
increases due to the recent exchange variation of the U.S. dollar with respect
to the Japanese yen on committed contracts and a few items of the project
which are not yet committed are being considered for financing under a pro-
posed second telecommunications project. The Post and Telecommunications
Corporation, the executing agency, is operating satisfactorily and is meeting
the prescribed rate of return.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
The project's performance continues to improve although major prob-
lems remain. The field services component under the Veterinary and Animal
Husbandry Department (VAHD) although delayed in some respects, is generally
being implemented successfully. Vaccine production is proceeding satisfactor-
ily though improvement has been delayed by slow procurement. The consultancy
in diagnostic procedures has been completed. VAHD is now implementing the
communal pasture and water point components which were transferred from the
Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC). The milk collection
scheme is progressing satisfactorily and LDMC plans to expand these services.
The current management of LDMC is expected to benefit from technical assist-
ance which has been recently arranged with FAO. The Institute of Animal
Husbandry and Veterinary Science continues to show little progress in
strengthening livestock education and will receive greater attention. There
is progress in the Institute's building program at Yezin and the teaching
block is 30% complete.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Credit was declared effective following the establishment of a
Project Implementation Committee (PIC) and the Project Unit (PU). In January
1977, bids for the supply of key construction equipment were opened. However,
awards of contracts for the supply of this equipment were made only in September
1977, and only a small part of the equipment was delivered in time for the
first construction season (November 1977 to May 1978). The Irrigation Depart-
ment (ID) has completed a reduced construction program using existing equipment.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
ID has prepared a revised construction program taking into account the initial
delays and changes in the equipment list. All ID staff are appointed and
despite the slow start, the ID will be able to complete project construction
on schedule if no further major delays occur. Early in 1977, the Agriculture
Corporation (AC) launched the intensive agricultural extension program for
five project townships, and by December 1977 it had fully staffed the exten-
sion program with village and township level officers assigned full time to
extension activities. These officers are carrying out a program of periodic
and regularly scheduled visits to the farm areas (Training and Visits program)
which has been well received by farmers. In September 1977, consultants began
work on the hydrologic investigations and in December 1977, consultants began
work on the paddy storage and handling studies which has since been completed.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Expected Date of Effectiveness: March 18, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
There have been top management changes since the Credit was negoti-
ated (Managing Director and Chief Traffic Manager), which have partly affected
project implementation. The dredging manager was assigned in January 1977.
Burma Ports Corporation (BPC), the executing agency, appointed Crown Agents,
in July 1977, to prepare tender documents for equipment and machinery, and
orders for cargo handling and other equipment and spare parts have been placed.
BPC employed a consulting firm, in August 1977, to prepare documents for the
rehabilitation and repairs of the suction dredger; bids have been evaluated
and award of contract has been made. The dredger rehabilitation is expected
to be completed by May 1979, about nineteen months behind schedule, the further
delay is partly due to long delivery of necessary spare parts. BPC has ini-
tiated inquiries about the proposed training program.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Following an approximately 9-month delay due to a Government deci-
sion to revise the basic procurement approach, progress on the project has
improved markedly and a contract for the major project component, the dredge,
was awarded during December 1978. Bid evaluations for several other major
components are virtually complete, and it is expected that orders for about
85% of the equipment should be placed by January 1979. A 15-month delivery
time on the dredge means that it should be delivered on site by April 1980,
which would enable production to commence only about 4-5 months later than
originally scheduled. Trainees arrived in Malaysia during December 1978, thus
permitting a somewhat reduced average training time of about 15 months before
delivery of the main project components. On-site works are progressing well.
It is now expected that the project will have a cost overrun of about 15% due



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
to the delay, the change in procurement approach and currency fluctuations.
Steps are being taken to obtain financing for cost overrun.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date: February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is generally running smoothly but has experienced some
minor problems which have delayed implementation by about four months. There
have been delays in procurement, overseas training, and project staffing.
Apart from these minor problems, the project's prognosis appears good:
Applied Research Division (ARD) staff continue to work conscientiously; the
National Seed Committee has started to exercise its intended guiding role;
the consultants have performed satisfactorily and have maintained excellent
working relationships with ARD staff; and the research component shows signs
of improved coordination with the Agricultural Research Institute.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
The project unit has been established and staffed as required and
a project director and a project extension manager have been appointed.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project
8 months
(b)  Agencies preparing the project
UNDP-financed consultants and the Government
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider project
November 1973
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
December 11, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
May 1, 1979
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



- 31-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  The RS would be headed by an officer of General
Manager rank whose experience and qualifications
are satisfactory to the Association (para 53).
(b)  The RS head office would be adequately staffed
and provided with inter alia not less than eleven
officers whose experience and qualifications are
satisfactory to the Association (para 53).
(c)  The incentive scheme presently in effect for
rubber tappers on the Government rubber estates
would be extended to the remaining project estate
workers (para 55).
(d)  In the event the existing incentive scheme is
modified or abolished, an alternative incentive
scheme would be maintained (para 55).
(e)  The Government would take all necessary measures
to ensure that the project estates are operated
on sound commercial principles (para 55).
(f)  Each estate manager would prepare a five-year
development and operation plan to be updated
annually. These plans would be amalgamated and
included in an overall five-year development and
operation plan for all RS rubber activities
(para 56).
(g)  The RS would prepare and submit annually to the
Association (i) a five-year research program, and
(ii) research report (para 56).
(h)  The two Government creping mills would be adequately
rehabilitated (para 57).
(i)  The RS would prepare and submit to the Association
not later than July 1, 1979, and thereafter not later
than April 1 of each subsequent year, an annual plan
for overseas training of its staff (para 58).
(j) The Government would retain about 76 man-months of
consultant services (para 58).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
(k) The Government would take all measures necessary
to (i) empower RS to construct buildings which have
a unit cost of not more than K 100,000, and (ii)
ensure that the necessary building materials are
available to RS in a timely manner (para 62).
(1) The RS would submit to the Association not later
than July 1 of each year, beginning July 1, 1979,
an annual work plan for all civil works to be carried
out under the proposed project, together with a draft
contract, satisfactory to the Association, for the
execution of construction work by CC on behalf of the
RS (para 62).



IBRD 13711
90 R             0                   9I                             JUNE 1978
NNTt44
DDY SAEONDSAE  IRANGOu. T A
DIVISION               ALN. ,4  
-14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K MAN1ODS0 
S TATE
%URMA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~*                       140
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
0             TH~~AILAND
RUBBER GROWING AREAS
PROJECT BOUNDARY                             KALAIBSA
*  RUBBER PROCESSING FACILITIES                                       N
STATE OWNED ESTATES                           EIGHTH Al
-140       N_D_A_M MAIN ROADS                                                      avoy                         14|-
- ----SECONDARY ROADS
~--i~RAILWAYS                                                      4
-2ool,' ISOHI-YETS (INCHES)
4  AIRPORTS                             ~~~~TENASSERI    '
~    PORTSDVS O\L~ 
E  't}     )~~TAT Of-t_   DIVISIO  BOUNDARIES
-.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            r    EA  4dA 
0
ANDAMAN                        K TAN
SE   A                                e tg.
*120
~~~~~~~5C  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       )
INDIA        ~~~C4NA
0     w    ~     ~      0 
-'  BURMA                                          MILS 
<       S        iT                                  KILOMETERS
ThAILAND                                                                        I
A eaS8tuywt                     This map hds been prepared by the
-,              Oirl MaP    '*         t          Wodrd Bank's staff esc/usively for                     1%
(CAMB> OIA!               the report to which it is attached.
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this Mlap
GULF o rH^ A6si      -t o       do nit imply, on the pat of the  EANI7)tO
FHILN 1F0                     World Bantk and its"affillates. anY
AND        -10      i~~~~udgmet on the legal status of  ?10
anY temtory or any endorsement   C
960     or setaptance of such boundaries.  98



