Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FIz   COPY
Report No. 2193a-BA
BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 20, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 1977, the Burmese kyat has been officially
valued at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and
consequently its value floats relative to other currencies.
The following exchange rate is used throughout this report
except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00   =  Kyats (K) 7.2
K 1.00    =  US$0.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                         Metric Units
1 mile (mi)                          1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                          0.405 hectares (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton) (2240 lb)        1016 kilogram (kg)
Burmese Units              English/US Units            Metric Units
1 Viss (vi)                    3.60 lb                   1.63 kg
1 pyi                          2.00 pint        =        1.65 liters (1)
1 basket (16 pyi)              3.00 peck        =       26.4 1
1 basket paddy                   46 lb          =       20.9 kg
1 basket rice                    75 lb          =       34.0 kg
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC    -    Agriculture Corporation
ANRPC -    Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries
ARI   -    Agricultural Research Institute
BPPM  -    Balai Penyelibikan Perkubunan, Medan (Research Institute
of the Sumatra Rubber Planters Association)
CSS   -    Clonal seedling stumps
DS    -    Direct seeded rubber
GDP   -    Gross Domestic Product
GOB   -    Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
IDA   -    International Development Association
MAB   -    Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF   -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MEIC  -    Myanma Export-Import Corporation
MPF   -    Ministry of Planning and Finance
PAPRD -    Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department
PB    -    Budded rubber plants in polythene bags
PBIG  -    Prang Besar Isolated Garden
PCD   -    Plantation Crop Division
RMA   -    Rubber Marketing Association
RRIM  -    Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
RS    -    Rubber Section, Agriculture Corporation
GLOSSARY
Budding or budgrafting  - vegetative multiplication by means of budding
or budgrafting a bud onto a seedling rootstock.
Such buds are taken from identified high yield-
ing planting materials. The trees obtained by
this process are known as clones.
Clone                    - a clone refers to all plants derived vegeta-
tively from an individual source plant. As
such, they have the same genetic composition.
Clonal seed              - high yielding seed derived from crosses between
selected clone parents. Yields of clonal seed
are generally rather lower than those of clones
of proven performance in a particular area,
but, on the other hand, clonal seed show rapid
growth to maturity and adaptability to a wide
range of soil and climatic conditions.
Creping mill             - a machine in which coagulated latex and scrap
rubber are macerated and rolled into thin
sheets with a crepe texture. The resulting
crepe is air-dried. Quality controls of crepe
rubber are largely visual and therefore
subjective.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
(cont.d)
Block (Crumb) Rubber    - a process by which either latex coagulated in
the factory or scrap rubber is broken down
into crumbs or granules, dried and then com-
pressed into blocks. Samples can be taken of
individual blocks for objective quality control
testing.
Sheeting factory          - in the manufacture of sheet rubber, coagulated
(for the manufacture        latex is milled (rolled) into sheets to which
of sheet rubber or          the final rollers give a ribbed effect.  These
smoked sheet)               sheets are then dried in a smoke house.  Quality
controls are largely visual and therefore
subjective.



BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SECTOR BACKGROUND  .................         ..1................... 
The Role of Agriculture  in the Economy  .................                    I
The Rubber Sub-Sector  ..................................                    2
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy  .... ............                           4
II.    PROJECT GENESIS AND OBJECTIVES  .........................                     4
III.  THE PROJECT .........................                                           6
Project Area ......  ...........                                             6
Project Description   ...            ...........................             8
A.   Estate Rehabilitation .........................                   8
B.   Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities  .......                  8
C.  Staff Development and Research .................                   8
Project Activities ......................                                    9
A.   Estate Rehabilitation  .........................                  9
B.   Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities  ... ....    10
C.   Staff Development and Research .................                 12
Implementation Schedule  ..............         ..      ................    14
Cost Estimates  ....................              .....................     14
Financing        .......................      .......................       16
Procurement         ......................      ......................      16
Disbursements  ....... ..............            .....................      18
Accounts  and Audit  .....................................                  19
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............          ..      ..............   19
Project Organization and Implementation  ........ ........                  19
Manpower Development  ...............         ..     ..................     22
Monitoring and Evaluation  .............         ..      ...............    22
Future Projects  ........................................                   23
V.    PRODUCTION ASPECTS  .................        ....................           23
Planting Material  ...................             ...................      23
Planting Techniques           ..................    ..................      24
Exploitation Practices  ..............         ..     .................    25
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Burma
in November/December 1977 comprised of Messrs J. Loup, G. Hayes, and
J. Greenwood (IDA) and Messrs. R. Chambe, F. Nelson and G. Losson (consultants)
Subsequent modifications to the project resulted from the follow-up appraisal
mission of G. Hayes in March/April 1978. The report has been prepared by
Mr. Hayes.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Benefits from Rehabilitation Measures ....    ..............   25
Expected Yields ........................................   26
Total and Incremental Production .......................   26
VI.   DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES ...........................   26
World Markets and Price Projections for Natural Rubber .   26
Raw Rubber Procurement and the Domestic Market .... .....   27
Projected  Prices   .......................................  28
Exports   ................................................  28
VII.   FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS   ....................................  28
Present Financial Position of the Rubber Section   ......    28
Financial Implications of the Project ....    .............    29
VIII.   BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS ....    .............    30
Benefits   ..............................................  30
Economic Analysis .................                        31
Project  Risks   .........................................  32
Sensitivity Analysis ..................................    32
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....    ............    33
Annex 1:  Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Annex 2:  IDA Disbursement Against Local Expenditure for
Project Plantings
Annex 3:  Supporting Tables and Charts
TABLES
1.  Production Equipment for Estates:  Investment
2.  Civil Works Investments on Estates
3.  Estates Staffing
4.   Budwood Nursery Establishment and Production Schedule
5.  Budwood Nurseries:  Cost of Establishment and Operation
6.  Polybag Nursery Establishment and Production Schedule
7.  Total Requirements and Costs of Polybag Nurseries
8.  Summary of Phasing of Project Plantings and Operations
9.  Establishment Costs:  Direct-Seeded, Field Budded Rubber
10. Budding Year (1): Costs for Direct-Seeded, Field Budded Rubber
11. Establishment Costs: Polybag Plantings
12. Establishment Costs: Clonal Seedling Stump Plantings
13. Manuring Schedule for New Plantings
14. Maintenance Costs: All Plantings
15. Annual Operating Costs for Tapped Rubber in Project Area
16. Yield Projections
17. Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities: Investments
18. Summary of Incremental Support Staff Costs



-3-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
TABLES
19. Head Office Support Staff
20. Investments for Head Office Support, Training and Research
21. Staff Training Costs
22. Technical Assistance Costs
23. Project Cost Summary
24. Credit Disbursement Schedule
25. Comparison of Selected Clones
26. Tapped Area (Acres) and Production (long tons) of Rubber on
Government Estates (With Project)
27. Total Rubber Procurement by Grades 1976/77
28. Distribution of Rubber Output by Grades 1976/77
29. Projected Export and Domestic Prices
30. Project Financial Cost Summary
31. Estimated Export and Domestic Sales Revenue
32. Financial Rate of Return to Investment
33. Forecast Cash Flow (PCD Rubber Estate Operations)
34. Economic Rate of Return
35. Sensitivity Analysis: Economic ROR
CHARTS
C.1 Tentative Phasing of Technical Assistance
C.2 Implementation Schedule
C.3 Organization of Plantation Crop Division
Annex 4: Data Available in Project File
MAP 13711






I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
The Role of Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      The agricultural sector is the second largest in the Burmese
economy after Trade and Services and accounted for 34% of the Gross Domestic
Product in 1976/77. The sector, which employs 68% of the labor force, in-
cludes livestock, forestry, and fisheries, in addition to crop production.
Agricultural products, primarily rice and teak, account for about 85% of all
exports. About 60% of Burma's industrial output stems from the processing of
agricultural crops including cotton, jute and sugarcane. Rice is by far the
most important crop accounting for about 50% of the agricultural output and
more than half of the sown area. Prior to World War II, Burma was one of the
world's largest rice exporters and while rice production has increased less
quickly than domestic demand, rice and rice products are still the major ex-
ports. Other major crops in terms of sown area include sesamum, pulses and
groundnuts. The minor crops include maize, cotton, sugarcane, wheat, rubber,
chillies, jute, tobacco, onions and coconut.
1.02      The agricultural sector performed poorly over the decade ending
1975/76; its growth rate, estimated to be 1.6% per annum, was less than
both the 2.3% growth in GDP and the 2.2% population growth. During this
period, export volumes decreased by two-thirds largely because of declining
rice exports. The poor performance of the agricultural sector was a major
cause of Burma's economic deterioration over the past decade. Its origins
can be traced to insufficient public and private investment in agriculture,
to inadequate production incentives, and to shortages of inputs including
agricultural support services. There has been a considerable improvement
in the sector's performance in 1975/76 and 1976/77 with the annual growth
averaging 5%, reflecting both more favorable weather conditions and Govern-
ment action to redress past problems.
1.03      The Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
(GOB) has recently re-ordered its development priorities to give more emphasis
to agriculture. The Third Four Year Plan (1978/79 - 1981/82) calls for agri-
cultural output to increase by 5.8% annually. GOB has increased agriculture's
share of State capital expenditure from about 11% for the period 1968/69 to
1974/75 to a planned 27% for the period 1978/79 to 1981/82. It has increased
procurement prices recently for the major crops (with the exception of paddy),
and attempted to improve input availability and agricultural support services.
1.04      The present distribution of agricultural output, excluding livestock
and fisheries, indicates that the State accounts for 0.3%, cooperatives nil,
and the private sector 99.7%. The Twenty Year Development Plan envisages
structural adjustments in the agricultural sector such that by 1994, State
farms are expected to account for 10% of the cultivated area; the cooperative
sector, 50%; and the private sector, 40%. However, neither the means nor
the pace for achieving these adjustments have been specified.



-2-
The Rubber Sub-Sector
1.05      Rubber was introduced in the far south of Burma about one hundred
years ago. The trees grew successfully in the Tenasserim salient and rubber
acreage reached about 30,000 ac by the turn of the century and 120,000 ac by
1930. The acreage declined during the economic depression of the 1930s and
the industry was completely disrupted by World War II. Since then the acreage
increased, partly as the result of Government sponsored planting, to reach a
peak of 214,000 ac in 1973. The total area has declined in recent years and
is now estimated at 207,000 ac. The main rubber growing area is the Tenasserim
salient, comprising Mon State and Tenasserim Division, which accounts for 82%
of the rubber area. The remainder is scattered in the less ecologically suit-
able areas north and northwest of the Tenasserim salient. Only 57% of the
total planted area is currently being exploited with the balance either
immature (estimated 11%) or abandoned (estimated 32%). The abandoned rubber
is generally over-aged and unproductive although some potentially productive
rubber may have been abandoned because of security problems.
1.06      The private sector comprising smallholders 1/ with 54% of the total
area and private estates with 28% of the total area, together control 169,000
ac with 100,000 ac currently exploited. The remaining 18% or 38,000 ac is
controlled by GOB's Agriculture Corporation which owns and operates 23 Govern-
ment Rubber Estates.
1.07      Rubber yields in Burma currently average about 275 lb per tapped
acre which is barely 25% of average Malaysian yields. Total annual rubber
production has fluctuated around 14,000 tons for the past decade, equivalent
to about 0.4% of the world total. Official exports of rubber from Burma have
averaged about 7,300 tons annually since 1965/66 although there has been
considerable fluctuation between years. These exports have contributed an
average of US$3.3 M per year since 1970, representing approximately 2.4% of
total exports. These statistics exclude a substantial quantity of rubber
which is smuggled out of Burma, estimated to vary between 3,000 and 6,000 tons
annually or 40 to 80% of official exports. Most of the smuggled rubber
originates from smallholdings in the southern half of Tenasserim Division
where there is relatively easy access to Malaysia by sea and to Thailand,
overland.
1.08      Government involvement in the rubber industry in Burma takes the
following forms:
(a)  direct production on Government estates which account for
14% of the total production;
1/   Defined as operating less than 100 ac.  The latest data on ownernship
(1963) indicate that there were 14,250 smallholdings and only 200 plan-
tations larger than 100 ac.



- 3 -
(b) procurement of rubber as the sole legal buyer in Burma.
As part of this effort, the Government's Agriculture
Corporation also sets procurement targets for individual
producers;
(c) provision of a very limited quantity of inputs, and
occasionally advice, to all rubber producers;
(d) processing of most of the rubber output in two
Government-operated creping mills. A third, privately-
owned creping mill operates solely for the Government
under contract; and
(e) marketing of all rubber either for export or domestic
consumption.
Thus, although GOB has only a small share of production, it has nominally total
control of the industry through its monopoly purchasing power and near total
control of processing facilities.
1.09      Because of inadequate maintenance and re-investment in recent years,
the rubber sub-sector is in a state of decay. The industry faces the prospect
of continued decline if productivity is not improved by replanting with modern
high yielding cultivars, introducing modern exploitation practices, and rehab-
ilitating both the. nroduction and processing facilities. The situation is
exacerbated by a shortage of trained manpower. While the immediate cause of
the industry's decline has been the failure to maintain investments, the
underlying reasons for this failure to re-invest may include:
(a) World War II and subsequent insurgency in Mon State and
Tenasserim Division after independence in 1948;
(b) lack of confidence of the private sector, and in particular
the private estate sector, following the Land Nationalization
Acts of 1948 and 1953; and
(c) lack of financial incentives for the smallholders to
replant.
1.10      Rehabilitation of the rubber sub-sector, whilst urgently needed, is
made difficult by current GOB policies. The private estate operators are
reluctant to rehabilitate their estates at present because they feel that the
30 year Government guarantee of non-nationalization which expires in 2003, is
insufficient security for their slow yielding investment. Both the private
estate operators and the smallholders regard present returns from rubber as
inadequate, particularly in Tenasserim Division where lucrative but illegal
petty trading opportunities have driven wages to three times the official
Government rate. GOB is reluctant to provide indirect grants for replanting
which could be recovered through a cess on rubber exports as is done in
Thailand and Malaysia. Since there is no agency capable of administering
long term credit to rubber producers, this policy also severely constrains



- 4 -
industry rehabilitation. Finally, in part of the rubber producing areas,
insecurity resulting from insurgent activity has discouraged rehabilitation
both through its effect on labor supply and through the risk it poses to the
investment.
1.11      Given the existing constraints to rehabilitation in the private
sector, the Government sector currently offers a better opportunity for
successful investment. GOB has accorded a high priority to rehabilitation of
its estates under the current Four Year Development Plan, and has already
greatly increased its importation of the improved planting material required
to replant over-aged and less-productive trees. Unfortunately the Government
does not have the resources to make the necessary supporting investments in
estate equipment, civil works, processing facilities, staff training and
technical assistance. Without such investment, rehabilitation of the industry
would be protracted and perhaps ultimately unsuccessful. The resulting delay
in rehabilitation of the Government sector would also delay the rehabilitation
of the private industry which must await both the creation of a strong,
efficient extension organization staffed with officers competent in modern
rubber husbandry, and the production of proven suitable planting material.
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy
1.12      The Bank Group has encouraged GOB's recognition of the priority for
agricultural development. To date, most of IDA's lending for agriculture has
been directed towards increasing paddy production, forestry and livestock
output. Expansion of the lending strategy to include rubber is in accord with
GOB's policies to increase exports, and with IDA's desire to support GOB's
diversification objectives. Support for rehabilitation of the rubber sub-
sector is particularly opportune at this time in view of the encouraging
market prospects for natural rubber.
1.13      The proposed project would further IDA's lending strategy for Burma
of increasing productivity and efficiency of public enterprises. At the same
time, this project by revitalizing essential supporting services in the rubber
sector will pave the way for future efforts to rehabilitate the large extent
of rubber plantings in private hands. Without this strengthening of the local
rubber technology base the competitiveness of the Burmese rubber industry
would continue to erode.
II. PROJECT GENESIS AND OBJECTIVES
2.01      The proposed project was first identified by a Bank mission which
visited Burma in November 1973. 1/ The UNDP "Program for Pre-Investment and
1/   IBRD Report No. 454a-BA 'Agricultural Development and Credit in the
Union of Burma'.



- 5 -
Investment Assistance, Burma," referred to as the Burma Umbrella Project,
which became effective September 1975, provided US$0.1 M for project prepar-
ation work carried out by the consulting firm of Harrison Fleming. The
consultants produced their final report in October 1977. Their report 1/
recommended a project which would:
(a) rehabilitate the Government estates;
(b) assist smallholders by providing replanting grants and
an effective extension service;
(c) establish a nucleus estate with smallholder outgrowers; and
(d) establish a new crumb rubber factory.
2.02      The proposed project was intended to rehabilitate both private and
Government estates with about half the estimated US$12.5 M cost directed
towards smallholder rehabilitation. The IDA appraisal mission which visited
Burma in November 1977, felt that the proposed project was too ambitious and
faced major uncertainties concerning its agronomic feasibility and the likely
response of private sector rubber producers. The mission therefore recom-
mended that the project be reduced in size and that the project area be
restricted to the southern part of the country which was more suited to rubber
cultivation. In addition to the broad question of project scope, the mission
indicated that several major issues needed to be resolved before a project
could be recommended. These included:
(a) the priority which GOB accorded to the proposed project;
(b) the security situation in the project area;
(c) GOB's proposals for technical assistance and training;
(d) GOB's proposals for financing replanting in the private
sector and its pricing policy as it related to replanting
incentives; and
(e) GOB's proposal for organization and management of the
project.
GOB was asked to respond to these issues and further preparation of the
project was suspended pending GOB's response.
2.03      A follow-up appraisal mission visited Burma in March/April 1978,
but was unable to resolve the outstanding issues to the extent needed to
recommend the originally proposed project: GOB's desire to finance replanting
through provision of credit, rather than a grant, was not a viable option in
1/   Rubber Rehabilitation Study Volumes 1 and 2, available in Project File.



- 6 -
the absence of an effective credit agency. Private sector response to the
project was also brought into question by GOB's procurement policy, and in
particular, by procurement prices which were low in relation to to the prices
offered on the unofficial market.
2.04      GOB and IDA, therefore, agreed that the project be restricted to the
State sector. The primary objective of the project would be to increase the
quantity and quality of rubber produced on Government estates, and to expand
the crumb rubber processing capacity thus providing valuable experience in
this new technology.  The project would also result in the creation of a
competent staff, well trained in modern techniques of rubber production,
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. The creation of this staff,
together with the development of proven improved planting material and the
necessary supporting infrastructure, would remove some of the major constraints
to further rehabilitation of the rubber industry. The project thus supports
GOB's development priorities and will ultimately lead to increased rubber
production, mainly for export, thus improving Burma's foreign exchange earn-
ings and diversifying exports.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Area
3.01      Project activities would be concentrated on the 15 Government
estates in the two southernmost administrative regions of Burma - Tenasserim
Division and Mon State (Map 13711). These regions include 82% of the total
rubber area. The 15 Government estates to be developed under the project
include about 24,700 ac of rubber and comprise 65% of the total area of
Government estates or about 12% of the total rubber area in Burma. The
average size of the estates is 1,745 ac, with 11 larger than 1,000 ac.
Government estates in Mon State are larger, have a smaller proportion of the
area tapped and a higher proportion of immature rubber than those estates in
Tenasserim Division. Only 13% of the Government's rubber in Mon State is aged
over 30 years compared to 47% in Tenasserim estates.
3.02      The project area includes the best rubber growing area in Burma.
The area is referred to as the Tenasserim salient and ranges in latitude
from 100 to 170 North. Its suitability for rubber cultivation decreases
from the south to the north reflecting the lengthening of the dry season.
Since Tenasserim Division is more suited to rubber production than Mon State,
by virtue of its less severe dry season, and since the rubber on Tenasserim
estates is more generally over-aged, the project's replanting efforts would
be restricted to Tenasserim in this first phase project. However small trial
areas in Mon State would be planted with various clones to identify the best
planting material and to obtain firm indications of the yield potential in
this area for possible future development.



3.03      The climate in the project area is dominated by the Southwest
Monsoon which extends from May to September with July the wettest month.
Total annual rainfall ranges from about 150 to 215 inches. The dry season
varies from 4 to 5 months, increasing from the south to the north.  The
temperature variation is small with mean daily temperatures ranging from 85°F
in March to 80 F in December. The combination of high rainfall and humidity
and cool temperatures during the wet season results in widespread fungal
attacks, Phytophthora being most damaging. The intense rainfall during the
wet season prevents tapping for three to four months and the trees are
normally rested for a month (January-February) during wintering.
3.04      The total population of about 2.2 M in the project area is distri-
buted unevenly with 1.4 M and a population density of about 295 per sq mile
in Mon State compared with 0.8 M and 46 per sq mile in Tenasserim Division.
Tenasserim Division has little lowland and consists mainly of hilly or moun-
tainous areas together with numerous islands. It is a rice deficit area
although rice is the major crop: upland and wet rice account for 60% of the
cultivated area, rubber 28%, betelnut 8%, coconut 3% and cassava 1%. Fishing,
tin mining, forest exploitation and bamboo collection offer employment
opportunities for the sparse population in addition to the trading activities
afforded by the extensive unofficial market. Market wage rates are generally
higher than those prevailing further north and range from K 8 to K 15 per day.
Government estate workers are supplied with rice at controlled prices in
addition to the fixed Government wage of K 5.4 per day. In recent years
insurgency has been kept under close control in the project area. Despite
this, foreigners are required to travel with police or army escorts outside
the major towns.
3.05      Mon State has extensive low-lying areas suited to rice cultivation
and produces a rice surplus for export. The total area under major crops is
about 772,000 ac of which 86% is rice, 9% rubber, 2% sugarcane, 2% betelnut
and 1% coconut. Groundnuts and sesamum are important minor crops. Employment
opportunities are more restricted than in Tenasserim Division and apart from
agriculture the main activities are firewood collection, bamboo and timber
extraction, cottage industries and petty trading. Market wage rates are more
comparable with those elsewhere in Burma ranging from K 5 to K 12 per day.
3.06      The nine Government estates in Tenasserim Division where project
operations would be concentrated occupy about 13,000 ac or 35% of the total
area of Government rubber estates in Burma. Although situated in the most
favorable rubber growing environment in Burma, present average yield is only
231 lb per tapped acre, less than 20% of the potential for the area. These
low yields are caused by the inefficient exploitation of over-aged rubber
with low genetic yield potential. Almost half the rubber was planted more
than 30 years ago and although 29% has been planted in the last ten years,
much of this has a yield potential constrained both genetically and by poor
management during the immature period.



-8-
Project Description
3.07      The proposed four year project would provide the foundation for the
rehabilitation of the rubber industry in Burma by modernizing Government rubber
estates and processing facilities through physical investments, staff training
and technical assistance. The principal features of the project are summarized
below.
A.   Estate Rehabilitation
3.08      The project would improve production from 65% of the total area of
Government rubber estates by:
(a) rehabilitating estate equipment and facilities on all 15
Government estates in the project area by providing agri-
cultural equipment, vehicles, processing facilities, and
some housing;
(b) establishing 4,500 ac of high yielding rubber on six Govern-
ment estates in Tenasserim Division to replace over-aged,
unproductive rubber (3,375 ac) and to expand estate area
by new plantings (1,125 ac); and
(c) introducing modern exploitation practices on all Govern-
ment estates in the project area including improved im-
mature rubber husbandry, upward and high level tapping
for older trees, and yield stimulation.
B.   Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities
3.09      The project would rehabilitate the two Government-owned and operated
creping mills by replacing worn out equipment and would expand the capacity of
Burma's sole crumb rubber plant fourfold, through investment in equipment and
civil works. Input for the crumb rubber plant would comprise latex from the
adjacent estates and scrap rubber which in the past has been processed into
crepe rubber.
C.   Staff Development and Research
3.10      The project would improve the capacity of the Rubber Section (RS),
Agriculture Corporation to provide support for rubber industry development by:
(a) limited staff recruitment supplemented by in-service
and overseas training to develop a cadre of competent
staff capable of increasing the rate of development
of the rubber industry;
(b) provision of 76 man-months of technical assistance; and



- 9 -
(c) introduction of a small scale adaptive research program
to test planting materials (clones and clonal seed), to
investigate the feasibility of replanting in Mon State,
and to improve rubber productivity generally.
Project Activities
A.   Estate Rehabilitation
3.11      The 15 estates in the project area would be provided with the
tractors, trailers, trucks, four wheel drive vehicles, pick-ups, motorbikes
and bicycles needed to improve efficiency. Fixed and mobile tanks would be
provided to assist latex collection.  Chain saws would be used to cut down old
and unproductive rubber trees and sprayers used for fungicide applications on
immature trees. Each estate would maintain its own spare parts inventory.
Details of equipment to be provided are in Table 1.
3.12      Housing would be provided for the additional estate labor required
and to replace existing sub-standard housing as necessary. Each estate would
construct a machinery shelter and use its own equipment to upgrade existing
access roads. All immature rubber would be fenced to prevent damage by
livestock. Details of the civil works are in Table 2.
3.13      Staff on the project estates would be expanded slightly because of
the need for equipment operators and carpenters. Details of estate staffing
are in Table 3.
3.14      The project would improve yields and production by replanting about
3,375 ac 1/ of over-aged unproductive rubber with improved high-yielding
material. In addition, a further 1,125 ac of new land, contiguous with the
estates, would be planted with high-yielding material to expand the estate
area: large areas of suitable land are available. GOB had, prior to negotia-
tions, satisfactorily completed its survey of Government rubber estates in
Tenasserim Division, and had identified and marked on maps areas suitable for
replanting and new planting totalling more than 4,500 ac in aggregate. Trial
plantings in Mon State to test clonal material suitable for planting in the
northern rubber area, would constitute about 100 ac of the total project
planting of 4,500 ac.
3.15      Three budwood nurseries totalling five acres would be established
in the first year (Tables 4 and 5). Polybag nurseries totalling 7.5 ac would
be established during the first three years of the project (Tables 6 and 7).
Since the nurseries would not be established in time for the 1979 planting
season, Prang Besar Isolated Garden (PBIG) seedlings would be used for 800 ac
of the first year's field planting together with 450 ac of direct-seeded rubber
which would be field budded in the second year. The first year's planting of
1,250 ac would be on land cleared and prepared prior to the July-August 1979
1/   Equivalent to about 55% of the total area of over-aged rubber on project
estates in Tenasserim Division.



- 10 -
planting season. Although RS would commence this work prior to project
effectiveness, retroactive financing would not be required because disburse-
ments to cover, inter alia, land development costs, would be made after the
rubber was properly established (Annex 2). The planting material for the
first year's planting would comprise 160,000 clonal seedling stumps (CSS) of
PBIG, sufficient to plant 800 ac and 360,000 locally collected seeds sufficient
to direct seed 450 ac which would be subsequently field budded. The PBIG
CSS would be provided from RS's existing nurseries which were planted in
February-March 1978 and would be harvested in May 1979. The local seed would
be collected from Government estates. An agreement was reached with GOB
that it would provide 160,000 PBIG clonal seedling stumps and 360,000 locally
collected seeds for project plantings in 1979. After the first year, about
half the planting would be direct seeded and field budded, and the remainder
budded in polybags prior to planting. Details of the planting program are
presented in Table 8. Selection of the planting material to be used is
discussed in Chapter V. The costs of planting are shown in Tables 9, 10, 11,
and 12.
3.16      Inadequate maintenance of immature rubber has been a major cause of
poor production from recently planted rubber in Burma. The project would
improve immature rubber husbandry on all project estates through, inter alia:
(a) attention to water control by terracing and drains;
(b) cover crop establishment;
(c) regular manuring (Table 13);
(d) regular weeding; and
(e) pest and disease control.
Details of the maintenance activities are in Table 14.
3.17      Exploitation practices would be modernized, the principal changes
being the introduction of upward tapping on the upper panels of older trees,
stimuLation using 'ETHREL' or its equivalent on all trees after their ninth
year of tapping on all Government estates, and improved husbandry including
manuring of all potentially productive mature rubber trees on the project
estates. These changes would lead to a rapid and permanent (within productive
life) improvement in yields. The annual operating costs for mature (tapped)
rubber are shown in Table 15. Average yields are expected to increase steadily
as more high yielding rubber comes into production. By 1993/94, the average
yield on project estates would be about 700 lb/ac which is 70% higher than
present yields. Details of yield projections are in Table 16.
B.   Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities
3.18      The Government estates' sheeting factories have mechanized sheeting
batteries with crude bulk latex handling capacity, smokehouses and grading
and packing sheds. The eprocessing equipment is old and inefficient, causing
high production costs and low quality output. The project would provide 8



- 11 -
replacement sheeting batteries, and the necessary ancillary equipment com-
prising 113 coagulation tanks, 15 bale presses, 25 smokehouses and 15 factory
extensions for the estates in the project area, sufficient to handle 6,000
tons annually in total. 1/ Details are provided in Table 17.
3.19      At present, all scrap (tree lace and cup lump) from both estates and
smallholders is processed into brown crepe at three creping mills located in
Rangoon, Tavoy and Mergui. Two of these mills are owned and operated by two
separate Government Corporations. 2/ The third is a small privately-owned mill
which operates under contract to the Government. The mills suffer from shortages
of spare parts and worn out mangles and the present quality of output reflects
these problems. Under the project, the two Government mills, which provide 85%
of the total creping capacity, would be rehabilitated by the provision of new
mangles and spare parts. With these limited improvements the mills would have
the capacity to meet expected output for at least five years by which time it
would be necessary to consider whether to expand crumb rubber processing or to
continue processing scrap into crepes. The estimated cost of rehabilitating
these mills is indicated in Table 17. GOB has indicated its desire that these
mills should remain under the control of the existing corporations which have
been operating them successfully for several years. GOB has empowered RS to
supervise operations and an agreement was reached with GOB that the two
Government creping mills at Rangoon and Mergui would be rehabilitated using
equipment supplied under the project, and would be operated in such a manner
as to ensure efficiency and quality of output.
3.20      A small 'Dynat' crumb rubber processing plant has been erected on
Thanbyuzayat estate and to date has produced about 40 tons of crumb rubber.
The plant can only process latex and is equipped with a poorly designed
dryer with a maximum capacity of about 2.5 tons/24 hours. This is the only
crumb rubber plant in Burma. The current trend of the world rubber market is
to move from the conventional RMA grades to specified rubbers which more closely
meet users needs. Production of specified rubbers requires units with a mini-
mum capacity of some 10 tons/day or about 2,000 tons/year. Because Burma's
rubber production areas are dispersed and most estates are relatively small,
total conversion to specified rubbers would be inadvisable at this stage,
especially since the existing creping capacity will be adequate at least to
1983/84.
3.21      Although no additional crumb rubber plants are proposed, the project
would expand the existing crumb rubber plant in Thanbyuzayat to enable Burma
to gain experience in this new technology. This plant could handle all the
1/   This capacity would handle projected output up to 1993/94.  Although
this investment would result in some slack capacity in the early years
of the project, the operating cost savings resulting from replacement
during the project justifies early investment.
2/   The Food Industries Corporation (Mergui) and General Industries
Corporation (Rangoon).



- 12 -
latex from Mudon and Thanbyuzayat estates plus all the scrap from the Moulmein
district at least until 1983/84. The expansion and improvement of the
Thanbyuzayat crumb rubber plant would involve:
(a)  expansion of the factory building and installation of coagula-
tion tanks including some transferred from Mudon and Thanbyuzayat
estates;
(b)  establishment of a scrap processing section comprising a
rotary cutter to cut the scraps after soaking and pre-
cleaning, and two creping mangles (a macerator, and a
medium mangle) to crepe and complete the cleaning. The
crepe would be granulated and dried through the latex line; and
(c)  increasing the processing capacity by replacing the present
dryer with a continuous box type to give a capacity of 10 tons
per day.
The costs of these works are shown in Table 17.
3.22      The plant would produce specified rubber of grades 5L and 5 from
latex, grade 10 or better from good quality scrap, and a small quantity of
grade 50 from the lowest quality scrap. The output should be sold as spe-
cified rubber to establish Burma's quality credentials in the international
market.
3.23      The project would construct a small laboratory to specify the rubber
produced. The laboratory would be staffed by a chief chemist and an assistant
both of whom would be trained at the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
(RRIM). Regular cross checking with the RRIM would be undertaken to check the
accuracy of the results. The laboratory would be located near the crumb rubber
factory, and would be the responsibility of the rubber research section. A
building to house the laboratory has been included in the project. GOB has
already procured a complete set of the necessary laboratory equipment.
C.   Staff Development and Research
3.24      The RS head office staff would be increased by recruitment or pro-
motion of five officers and 12 other ranks (Table 18). An agreement was
reached with GOB that RS would be headed, not later than April 1, 1980, by an
officer with the rank of General Manager whose experience and qualifications
are satisfactory to IDA and that RS's head office would be staffed with not
less than eleven officers whose experience and qualifications were agreed
during negotiations. The suggested designations and salary scales are shown
in Table 19 and GOB has indicated that these are acceptable to it. The
project would provide equipment for support staff comprising vehicles, office
equipment, training aids, soil survey equipment, laboratory equipment and
radio-telephones. Details are provided in Table 20. Accommodation and
facilities for trainees, instructors, and research officers, would also be
provided (Table 20).



- 13 -
3.25      The project would provide about 268 man-months of in-service train-
ing for estate staff. Details are provided in Table 21. Estate managers and
their assistants would each participate in a 20-day course in Basic Estate
Management to be held at Thanbyuzayat estate. The course would be given by
two full-time instructors initially under the guidance of the Training Con-
sultant. It would concentrate on instructing managers in efficient commercial
estate operation. Three senior staff from each estate would participate in
annual five-day refresher courses with emphasis on modern rubber husbandry.
Special training in budding techniques would be provided to ten estate workers
from each estate.
3.26      The project would also provide for 16 overseas study tours totalling
about 48 man-months. The suggested itinerary for the three-month tours would
include nine weeks at RRIM with visits to commercial estates, two weeks at
Government estates in Sumatra with some lectures at BPPM, and three days at
Hat Yai Rubber Research Center, Thailand. Provision has also been made for
138 man-months of overseas study for specific training. The possible train-
ing could include: (i) two 12-month research fellowships at the University
of Malaysia with laboratory work at RRIM; (ii) two nine-month courses on crumb
rubber processing at RRIM; (iii) two four-year degree courses in rubber tech-
nology at Manchester University or London National College of Rubber Techno-
logy. An agreement was reached with GOB that RS would submit to IDA not later
than July 1, 1979 and thereafter not later than April 1 of each subsequent
year, an annual plan for overseas training of its staff, indicating selected
candidates and training institutions which would be satisfactory to IDA.
3.27      Burma's rubber development is currently severely constrained by a
shortage of trained staff. The project's support for staff development would
address this constraint directly but as it would be at least four years before
a sufficiently large trained staff could be developed, the project would pro-
vide 76 man-months of technical assistance to help RS staff implement this
first phase project. The primary objective of the technical assistance would
be to improve RS's implementation capacity by in-service training and by pro-
vision of advice. The assistance has been scheduled to minimize the duration
of stay of individual advisors with the intention of establishing work programs
to be implemented in the advisors' absence apart from periodic check visits.
The magnitude of the task which needs to be undertaken to rehabilitate the
rubber industry in Burma precludes any reduction in technical assistance.
An agreement was reached with GOB that RS would retain consultants as may be
required throughout the project whose experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to GOB and to IDA. In addition to the
implementation of the currently proposed project, consultants would also
assist GOB in the preparation of a subsequent second-phase project which may
include the private sector. The proposed disciplines and the phasing of the
consultant's input is shown in Table 22 and Chart C.1. The technical assist-
ance would be provided entirely by expatriates since there is no local con-
sulting competence in any of the required disciplines. The average cost per
man-month is estimated at US$8,400 including overheads, travel and contingen-
cies. Draft terms of reference for technical assistance are in Annex 1.



- 14 -
3.28      A small scale adaptive research program would be included under the
project to test planting materials (clones and clonal seed), to investigate
the feasibility of replanting in Mon State, and to improve rubber productiv-
ity generally. This research would be carried out on government estates and
private smallholdings. A team of researchers, a Deputy General Manager
Estates and Research, one agronomist, one agricultural economist, and support
staff would be located at Tavoy and provided with transport, office and
laboratory equipment, and housing. Details are provided in Table 20.
Implementation Schedule
3.29      Project implementation is scheduled to commence by April 1, 1979,
and would be completed over four years. The phasing of the key project
activities is indicated in Chart C.2. GOB has completed its survey of estates
in Tenasserim Division and had identified and marked on maps areas suit-
able for replanting and new plantings totalling not less than 4,500 ac in
aggregate.
3.30      All necessary rehabilitation work on the estates in Tenasserim
Division selected for replanting or new planting would be completed before
commencing rehabilitation of the estates in Mon State. The trial plantings
(100 ac) in Mon State would take place in the second year to permit evalua-
tion of bud-grafted material which would not be available before that time.
Cost Estimates
3.31      Details of the project costs are in Table 23 and summarized in
Table 3.1. Total project cost is estimated at US$8.7 M of which US$4.1 M or
47% is foreign exchange, and US$0.8 M, duties and taxes. Cost estimates for
imported equipment, vehicles, foreign consultants, and training are based on
unit prices in recent contract awards and international prices. Costs of
civil works and estate and processing operations are based on recent costs
in Burma for similar work and on cost experiences in other rubber producing
areas in South Asia. The physical contingencies included in the estimates
amount to 9.0% of the base costs and include 15% for civil works on estates,
10% for other civil works, 10% for processing and estate equipment, 5% for
head office equipment, and 10% for working capital and incremental development
costs. All costs are adjusted to mid-1978 levels. Contingencies included
for subsequent price escalation over the project period, amount to 19.9% of
the base cost plus physical contingencies, and were computed at the following
annual rates based on projected rates of inflation in Burma and overseas:
Equipment and
Operations      Civil Works
1979/80                            6.5                10
1980/81 - 1982/83                  6.0                10



- 15 -
Table 3.1:   Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign
Ex-     Base
Cost Item       Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    change %  Cost %
Thousand Kyats           Thousand US$         /a
Estate
Rehabilitation
Equipment    3,293   3,588   6,881    457    499          956        52           14
Civij works  5,309       871   6,180    737    121        858        14           13
Incremental
development
costs       10,996   8,547  19,543  1,527  1,187   2,714            44          41
Rehabilitation
of Processing
Facilities
Equipment    1,733   4,442   6,175    241    617          858         72          13
Civil works  1,963       692   2,655    273       96      369        26            5
Working
capital         86       45      131      12      6       18        34            -
Staff Development
and Research
Equipment       242      555      797      34      77     111        70            2
Civil works    726       182      908    101      25      126        20            2
Training         85      771      856      12    107      119        90            2
Technical
assistance    388   3,488   3,876        54    484       538        90            8
Base Cost
Estimate      24,821  23,181  48,002  3,448  3,219   6,667            48          100
Physical
contin-
gencies      2,548   1,769   4,317    354    246         600        41            9
Exnerted
price
increase    5,842   4,556  10,398    811    633   1,444             44          22
Total
Expected
Project
Cost          33,211  29,506  62,717  4,613  4,098   8,711            47          131
/a   US$1 = Kyat 7.2.
August 7, 1978



- 16 -
Financing
3.32      The proposed IDA credit of US$4.5 M would finance about 57% of the
total project cost excluding taxes and duties. It would cover US$3.1 M equiv-
alent of the foreign exchange cost and US$1.4 M equivalent (37%) of the local
costs excluding taxes. UNDP would finance the technical assistance costing
US$0.6 M equivalent. Small tractors, trailers, water pumps and vehicles
costing about US$0.9 M equivalent including contingencies, of which US$0.4 M
equivalent is foreign exchange, would be reserved for procurement under local
procedures and would not be eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds of
the IDA credit. Accordingly, GOB !.wuld finance US$0.4 M equivalent of the
foreign exchange costs and the balance of the local costs (US$3.2 M equivalent)
for a total contribution of US$3.6 M equivalent. Funds would be made available
in the form of annual budgetary allocations to the Rubber Section (RS) of the
Agriculture Corporation. The proposed project financing is summarized below
(in thousand US$):
GOB   UNDP   IDA      TOTAL
Equipment                         1,422    -    1,000    2,422
Civil Works                         491    -    1,450    1,941
Incremental Development Costs   1,649    -    1,920    3,569
Training                             14    -       130       144
Technical Assistance                 -    635       -        635
TOTAL                         3,576   635   4,500    8,711
Procurement
3.33      RS would be responsible for all procurement under the project.
Equipment for estate rehabilitation and processing facilities (US$0.77 M) 1/
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Procurement Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif
price or the prevailing duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small tractors, trailers, water
pumps and vehicles (US$0.4 M) would be reserved for procurement under local
procedures. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$50,000 for each
contract, which are either required urgently or are not suitable for inter-
national tendering, such as inter alia office equipment, training aids,
soil survey equipment, laboratory equipment and other small items would be
purchased through normal Government procurement procedures which are satis-
factory to IDA, on the basis of comparing prices from no less than three
suppliers. Purchases of such equipment would be limited to a total of
US$200,000 excluding duties and taxes. GOB has provided satisfactory draft
tender documents for first year equipment purchases to expedite project
implementation.
1/   Excluding duties, taxes and contingencies.



- 17 -
3.34      Civil works under the project (US$1.28 M) 1/ would comprise a large
number of small, relatively simple works, widely scattered throughout the
project area; they would not be suitable for international competitive bidding.
There is no large scale private construction capacity in Burma capable of
assisting RS although there are many small labor sub-contractors. RS would be
responsible for the construction of simple buildings with a unit cost of less
than K 100,000 using its own staff or sub-contractors as required. An agree-
ment was reached with GOB that it would empower RS to construct buildings with
a unit cost of not more than K 100,000 and would ensure that the necessary
building materials were made available to RS in a timely manner in order to
allow RS to carry out such works. These buildings and works, would include
houses, training quarters, factory extensions, machinery shelters, smokehouses,
a power house, access roads and fencing on estates.
3.35      Construction of the laboratory and coagulation shed for the crumb
rubber plant at Thanbyuzayat would be carried out by GOB's Construction
Corporation. In addition, the Construction Corporation may be required to
carry out some works whose unit value is less than K 100,000 but whose
proximity to each other would permit some economies of scale. An agreement
was reached with GOB that RS would, not later than July 1 of each year,
beginning July 1, 1979, and until the completion of the civil works to be
carried out under the project, submit to IDA for its review and comment (a)
an annual work plan covering the civil works to be executed during each year
and (b) a budget and draft contract for the execution of civil works by the
Construction Corporation on behalf of RS.
3.36      The incremental development costs which are included in project
costs comprise project replantings and new plantings, incremental maintenance
of immature rubber, incremental estate operating costs for the first two
years of the project, and incremental working capital for processing and
marketing. Estate supplies including yield stimulant (US$0.22 M) 1/, fencing
materials (US$0.20 M) 1/ agricultural chemicals, nursery supplies and cover
crop seeds (US$0.18 M) 1/ and tapping equipment (US$0.17 M) would be procured
following normal Government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA, on the
basis of comparing prices from not less than three suppliers. Fertilizers
(US$0.87 M) 1/, would be obtained from GOB's central fertilizer stores. The
balance of the incremental development costs (US$1.09 M) 1/ would consist of
wages, machinery operations, and transport.
3.37      The remaining project costs consist of training (US$0.12 M) 1/ and
technical assistance (US$0.54 M) 1/. Consultants would be selected and
recruited by the executing agency of the UNDP-financed project component.
3.38      Draft tender documents for all tenders for equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost over US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for review prior
to issue of bidding documents. GOB would submit to IDA its recommendation
for award of contract following such tenders, prior to award of the contract.
1/   Excluding duties, taxes and contingencies.



- 18 -
For all other contracts, GOB would submit copies of the contract together
with the recommendations on which the award of contract was made, prior to
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit with respect to such
contracts.
Disbursements
3.39      Disbursements from the credit account are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1983, approximately nine months after the end of project
implementation. The estimated schedule of disbursements is in Table 24.
Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported equipment,
estate supplies and processing chemicals;
(b)  100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment, estate
supplies and processing chemicals manufactured locally;
(c)  70% of local expenditures for other equipment, estate supplies
and processing chemicals procured locally;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for training;
(e)  70% of local expenditures for civil works; and
(f)  about 56% of local expenditures on project plantings,
as specified below;
the disbursements for project plantings would be made only against those
project plantings which had been certified by the Project Coordination and
Estate Management Advisor to have been satisfactorily established. Project
plantings would be certified twelve months after planting. Payment would be
at the rate of US$240 equivalent per acre up to a maximum of 4,500 ac.
Details are provided in Annex 2. Disbursements against estate supplies to
be used on mature plantings would be limited to the incremental requirements
procured during the first two years of the project.
3.40      Applications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully docu-
mented except that: (i) disbursements for civil works carried out by RS
using its own staff would be made against certified statements of expenditure
submitted by RS; and (ii) disbursement for project plantings would be against
a certified statement prepared by the Project Coordinator and submitted by RS
(Annex 2). Documentation supporting these statements would be retained by RS
for review during project supervision.
3.41      The project has been designed as a first phase for future develop-
ment of the rubber industry. Upon completion of the project, any surplus
remaining in the credit account may, at the discretion of IDA and following
a GOB request, be used for project related expenditures.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audits
3.42      All Government agencies maintain accounts in accordance with proce-
dures laid down by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF). The Rubber
Section and its estates currently operate a satisfactory accounting system.
The Central Audit and Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Central
Council of People's Inspectors, is responsible for auditing the accounts of
Government agencies, and would be acceptable to IDA as an independent auditor
for this project.
3.43      An agreement was reached with GOB that:
(a)  each Government rubber estate in the project area would
maintain separate accounts which clearly identified
project related activities;
(b)  RS head office would maintain separate accounts for
its project related activities;
(c)  RS would collate estate accounts and consolidate these
with head office accounts and accounts for all other RS
activities to produce, inter alia:
(i) a statement showing sources and uses of funds;
(ii) an income and expenditure statement; and
(iii) a balance sheet;
(d)  these accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor such as Central Accounts Office in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA. (The audit report would
include, inter alia, a statement that funds disbursed
against statements of expenditure and against statements
certifying the area of project plantings satisfactorily
established had been used for the purpose for which they
were provided);
(e)  RS would send to IDA copies of the summary of the unaudited
project account within six months of the end of each fiscal
year, to be followed by copies of the audited accounts and
auditor's report when completed but not more than nine months
from the end of each fiscal year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization and Implementation
4.01      At present, the Government rubber estates are managed by a Rubber
Section which is part of the Procurement, Distribution, Planning and Statistics



- 20 -
Division of the Agriculture Corporation (AC) under the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests (MAF). GOB has indicated its intention to restructure MAF by re-
placing AC with an Agriculture Department (AD) which would have responsibility
for agricultural research, extension, input supply, land use planning and
plantation crops. Concurrently, the Agricultural Mechanization Department
(AMD) would be renamed (tentatively as the State Farm Corporation), and would
continue to distribute tractors and agricultural equipment, to provide cul-
tivation services, and to manage and operate the State Farms producing
annual crops.
4.02      GOB proposes to reorganize the Rubber Section as a Plantation Crop
Division (PCD) within the Agriculture Department (AD) with responsibility
for all aspects of rubber, coconut, oil palm and cocoa production both in the
State and private sectors. GOB has indicated that PCD would be part of AD
rather than the proposed State Farm Corporation because of PCD's dual func-
tions: it would carry out the service functions of extension and research
and the commercial functions of Government estate management, rubber procure-
ment, processing and marketing. This arrangement would also minimize the
loss of efficiency which would ensue if the limited existing trained staff
were reallocated to two separate agencies involved with plantation crops.
Assurances were obtained that all the provisions and agreements reached
regarding the implementation of the proposed project by RS would apply to any
successor agency. Also, an agreement was reached with GOB that an incentive
scheme, satisfactory to IDA, would be implemented for estate workers on
project estates for the duration of the project. The agreed incentive scheme
is an extension of an existing scheme which currently applies only to rubber
tappers. The extended scheme would permit payment of bonuses based on standard
of work and attendance for all estate laborers. The norms against which
the work standards will be judged would be set initially by RS head office
but the estate managers would be permitted to vary these norms according to
the particular circumstances on their estates. GOB has indicated that although
PCD would be a Government Department, it would be able to operate an incentive
scheme on the estates to ensure operation along commercial lines. GOB further
agreed that it would establish and maintain an alternative incentive scheme,
satisfactory to IDA, in the event that the current scheme were modified or
abolished. In order to encourage operation of the estates along commercial
lines, GOB agreed that any expenses incurred by estate staff for research or
extension activities would not be charged against estate operations.
4.03      The project would be implemented entirely by RS initially and later
on by its successor organization, PCD. The organization of RS/PCD is repre-
sented in Chart C.3. The General Manager of RS/PCD would report directly to
the Director of Agriculture (or the Managing Director of the Agriculture
Corporation while this organization exists). RS/PCD would have a small head
office staff (Table 19) located in Rangoon to provide support for the field
staff and to monitor project progress. Communications between head office
and the field staff would be primarily through radio-telephone links which
would be established between Rangoon, Moulmein, Thanbyuzayat, Tavoy and Mergui.
In addition, head office staff would make frequent visits to the estates and
processing facilities.



- 21 -
4.04       Each estate would have an Estate Manager reporting directly to
the head office, and responsible for all aspects of estate management. Each
estate would annually prepare a five year development plan for the current
and following four years with the assistance of head office staff and the
Estate Management Advisor (Job description in Annex 1). These plans would
include details of the physical developments in addition to annual income and
expenditure budgets. The plans for each estate would be amalgamated into a
five year development plan for RS. An agreement was reached with GOB that RS
would submit to IDA not later than September 30, 1979, its five year develop-
ment plan for RS activities for the period 1979/80 to 1983/84 outlining
planned physical activities in addition to an income and expenditure budget.
This five year plan would be updated annually and the revised plan submitted
to IDA not later than April 1 of each year. The Government estates would also
be used to carry out adaptive research under the direction of the Deputy
General Manager (Estates and Research). A five year research program would be
developed by RS in conjunction with the Research and Monitoring Advisor. An
agreement was reached with GOB that RS would submit its five year research
program to IDA not later than December 31, 1979, and annually thereafter by
December 31 of each subsequent year. In addition, RS would prepare annually
and submit to IDA, an Annual Research Report covering the period April 1 to
March 31 and detailing research activities, findings and proposed activities.
These reports would be submitted not later than June 30 of each year commenc-
ing June 30, 1980.
4.05      The Government rubber procurement centers would continue to operate
with the existing staff and their activities would not change under the
project. However, it is envisaged that better coordination of procurement
activities would be achieved through the improved communications with head
office staff resulting from access to radio-telephone linkages.
4.06      The two Government-owned creping mills are currently operated by
two separate Government Corporations under contract to the RS. GOB has
indicated its desire that these mills remain under the control of those
Corporations. Suitable assurances have been obtained to ensure the mills are
rehabilitated and operated efficiently (para 3.19). The crumb rubber process-
ing plant at Thanbyuzayat and all sheet processing factories would be under
the direct control of RS. The Rubber Processing Officer in the head office
would be responsible for ensuring efficient operation of the facilities and
would advise the management of the two Government creping mills on the opera-
tion of those mills.
4.07      Head office staff would coordinate input supplies to the Government
estates in conjunction with Estate Managers, each of whom would submit his
requirements to head office as part of his annual budget and work plan.
Marketing of rubber would also be arranged by RS head office staff following
current practices.  Rubber would continue to be sold both by direct Government
to Government sales, and by tender.
4.08      Head office Accounts and Administration staff would be responsible
for collation of estate budgets and accounts and preparation of overall RS
budgets and accounts.  One senior accounts officer would be solely responsible
for the project's accounts, procurement and disbursement transactions. He
would be assisted by other RS accounts staff as required.



- 22 -
4.09      The General Manager would be assisted in monitoring of RS activ-
ities by an assistant of Deputy Assistant General Manager (DAGM) rank and
two project monitoring officers. The General Manager's assistant would be
responsible for the collation of the quarterly progress reports for the
project.
Manpower Development
4.10      The shortage of suitably trained staff in Burma constitutes a major
constraint to the development of the rubber sub-sector. Fortunately,-there
is a surplus of agricultural graduates in Burma and it is envisaged that both
existing staff and currently unemployed agricultural graduates would receive
specific training under the project. The project would address this staff
constraint by the following actions:
(a) increase in support staff comprising five officers and 12
other ranks (Table 18);
(b) increase in estate staff comprising two officers and 83
other ranks (Table 3);
(c) provision of in-service training of support staff by
advisors and consultants (para 3.25);
(d) provision of in-service training of estate staff in formal
courses conducted by senior RS staff with the assistance
and direction of the training consultant (Table 21); and
(e) overseas study tours and specific courses (Table 21).
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      The project performance would be continually monitored by an in-
ternal monitoring unit set up in the head office and reporting directly to
the General Manager. This unit would consist of a full-time Monitoring Officer
and a full-time Field Monitor. These officers would be assisted by staff from
the Accounts and Administration Section of RS as required. Project operations
would be restricted primarily to the 15 Government estates in the project area
and monitored using the existing satisfactory estate recording systems supple-
mented by specific field observations as necessary. The Adaptive Research and
Monitoring Advisor would assist RS staff in the development of a satisfactory
project monitoring system.
4.12      Project evaluation would be the responsibility of GOB's Project
Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department (PAPRD). This existing depart-
ment also monitors projects and would advise the monitoring unit within
RS of its monitoring activities to ensure that data collected by from RS
are consistent in form and relevant to the needs of PAPRD for evaluation
purposes.  An agreement was reached with GOB that PAPRD would prepare a draft
Project Completion Report in conjunction with RS staff.



- 23 -
Future Projects
4.13      The terms of reference for the project consultants would require
them, inter alia, to assist GOB in the preparation of a future project to
further develop the rubber industry in Burma. RS would take the leading role
in the preparation of a future project which would build on the foundation
provided in the project currently proposed.
V. PRODUCTION ASPECTS
Planting Material
5.01      The choice of planting material for Burma is constrained both by
the environment and the limited knowledge of the likely performance of the
wide variety of planting material available. While acceptable, the environ-
ment is not ideal for rubber even within the project area: the rainfall
distribution is poor, (para 3.03); some of the soils are infertile and shallow;
and Phytophthora, a fungal disease of rubber trees, is endemic. Despite these
constraints, the appearance of existing rubber which has been well maintained,
indicates the area's considerable potential. Because there have been virtually
no field evaluation trials conducted in the recent past, there are few reliable
field data available to guide selection of planting material. In these
circumstances, the planting material selected must be of average or better
vigour, windfast and have some tolerance to Phytophthora. It should also be
high yielding with minimal yield depression during wintering.
5.02      Most of the limited recent plantings in Burma have used clonal
seedling material (almost exclusively PBIG), which has remained popular because
it grows visibly better than budgrafted material if, as has been the custom,
both are poorly maintained during the immature period. Some budgrafted rubber
has been established nonetheless, and at maturity it is reported to yield well
although little useful data are available. As has been proven in other
countries, it is expected that clones chosen to suit local conditions and
properly maintained, will give somewhat higher yields than the best clonal
seed.
5.03      Many clones are available in Burma but there is little reliable
information on their field performance and few have been used in field plant-
ings. The data in Table 25 include results from the Mudon clone trial planted
in 1961; these results can only be regarded as indicative since records have
been kept intermittantly, yields only recorded once (1976/77) in a manner
which permits statistical analysis and leaf fall recorded only twice in 1972
and 1976. In this situation of inadequate local data, it is necessary to
consider the performance of various clones in Thailand, where conditions on
the west coast are comparable to Burma's, and in Malaysia, where conditions
are considerably better than in the project area. Based on the data available,
and experience in Thailand, Malaysia, and Cambodia, the clones which would be
planted commercially under the project are GTI and PB86. In addition, the
following clones should be included in experimental plantings to establish
their performance potential under Burmese conditions: PR 107, RRIM 600,



- 24 -
PR5/51, PB5/63 and CH32. PBIG should also be included in these plantings to
enable comparisons with previous results obtained from PBIG.
5.04      PB86 appears to have performed well in the Mudon estate clone trial
except that its early growth rate has been poor. It also yields well in
Cambodia where there is a similar long dry season but where soils are deeper
and more fertile than in Burma. PB86 is no longer used in Malaysia or
Thailand since the more favorable growing condition in those countries enable
the use of more modern, higher yielding clones. GTI is the most tolerant of
modern clones to Phytophthora leaf disease. It is resistant to wind damage
and pink disease and has some resistance to Oidium and Gloeosporium. It can
be expected to yield more than PB86 although its initial yield has been lower
in the Mudon trials. It shows little yield depression during wintering, has
average bark thickness, exhibits only slight reaction to wounding, but bark
renewal is rather slow.
5.05      The project would use clones exclusively subject only to the avail-
ability of budwood which necessitates use of PBIG for most of the first year's
planting. (PBIG is selected clonal seed from Malaysia. It is the product of
many years selection trials and is the best proven clonal seed for Burmese
conditions. No comparable clonal seed could be produced domestically).
Planting Techniques
5.06      The best planting techniques are those which cause minimum trauma
and least damage to the root system. Both direct seeding followed by field
budding, and planting of material bred and budded in polythene bags (polybags),
meet these criteria and would be used exclusively in the project after the
first year. Clonal seedling stumps would be used for part of the first
year's planting (para 3.15).
5.07      Direct-seed planting would take place in July-August using seed
collected in July. At least four germinated seeds would be planted at each
stake and supplied as necessary to ensure survival of at least two good
stocks for budding in April. The two budded stocks would be cut back as
early as possible and the inferior stock removed for use as budwood or as a
budded stump, one year later.
5.08      Polybags would be placed in trench nurseries in June-July.  Two
germinated seeds would be placed in each bag in July-August and the better
one selected one month later. Budding would occur in March-April to enable
planting after the first rain in May-June.  The polybag nurseries would
require watering from November to April.
5.09      All plantings under the project would be at an initial density of
190 trees/ac to give a final density of at least 150 tappable trees/ac.
This low density is in contrast with the modern trend to higher densities
but is recommended as a means of ensuring that individual trees are well
grown and hence more resistant to leaf diseases such as Phytophthora and
Oidium. All plantings would be limited to areas with slopes of less than
12% and contour planting would be used for slopes greater than 8%. Cover
crops would be established with all new plantings: field trials should be



- 25 -
conducted to identify species which provide the best protection, preferably
without drawing heavily on dry season soil moisture reserves. Until such
work yields new species, Pueraria spp, Calopogonium spp and Centrosema spp
should continue to be used. Efforts should be made to harvest seed from
existing stands to avoid the high cost of imported seed.
Exploitation Practices
5.10      Trees would be opened for tapping when they achieve a girth of 20
inches measured 20 inches above the ground. The standard system of tapping -
half spiral, alternate daily (S/2 d/2), would continue to be used under the
project except in those areas where labor shortage necessitated tapping every
third day. The current practice of ceasing tapping for one month during winter-
ing, and for three to four months during the height of the wet season, would be
continued. 1/ Yield stimulants such as 'ETHREL' would be used on lower panels
at a concentration of 2.5% from the ninth year of tapping onwards provided the
panels were in good condition. Stimulation would be applied to all rubber
including the rubber outside the project area; it would be applied three times
per year in October, December and early April or as soon as refoliation was
completed. Upward tapping would be used on the virgin higher panels combined
with stimulation on the older plantings with exhausted lower panels. Upward
tapping would require intensive training of tappers to ensure reasonable bark
consumption and minimal wounding of the trees. Each estate would train some
of its better tappers in this technique. All existing mature and potentially
productive rubber trees on the project estates would receive fertilizer as
indicated in Table 15.
Benefits from Rehabilitation Measures
5.11      The rehabilitation measures which would be introduced under the
project would improve production from both existing and new plantings. The
younger existing plantings are expected to respond markedly to fertilizer
application since most of these plantings have received little or no fertil-
izer in the past. Fertilizer application will also reduce the rate of yield
decline in the older existing rubber. Stimulation of existing plantings is
expected to increase yields by 25 to 50% depending on the planting material
stimulated. The greater yield potential of the new plantings under the project
would be more fully realized following the introduction of improved rubber
husbandry practices under the project. Installation of terraces and drains
and establishment of cover crops would improve water control, reduce erosion,
and help improve soil fertility. Regular weeding would reduce competition for
moisture and nutrients while fertilizer applications would ensure that growth
would not be limited by nutrient availability. Control of diseases during
the immature period in particular, would permit the maximum potential growth
of the trees. These rehabilitation measures would all contribute to improved
early growth leading to early opening for tapping and increased yields over
the tree's productive life.
1/   Trials would be carried out to assess the benefits from continuation
of tapping during wintering.



- 26 -
Expected Yields
5.12      The yields expected from new and existing plantings with and without
the project are presented in Table 16. It has been assumed that with the
project, all rubber will be stimulated from the ninth year of exploitation.
The yields expected from new plantings with the project average 1,170 lb/ac
over 32 years of exploitation and are conservative estimates.
Total and Incremental Production
5.13      Total rubber production is a function of age distribution and yield
profiles and has been projected over a 30 year period with and without the
project. With the project, the total tapped area and total production from
Government estates is projected to increase from about 18,000 ac and 3,200
long tons in 1978/79 to about 25,000 ac and 7,600 long tons by 1993/94 (Year
15). Details are presented in Table 26. This compares with a without project
tapped area of about 21,000 ac producing 4,000 long tons by 1993/94. Thus the
incremental production from the project amounts to about 3,600 long tons per
year by 1993/94. Because of the nature of rubber's yield profile, the incre-
mental production from the project would continue to increase over time with-
out ever reaching a plateau which could be described as full development.
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
World Markets and Price Projections for Natural Rubber I/
6.01      During the next 15 years, the growth of demand for rubber will
continue to be determined largely by the growth of the automotive industry.
Even under conservative economic growth assumptions, world consumption of
rubber should continue to expand at a healthy rate, allowing both natural
and synthetic rubber producers ample scope for expansion. Natural rubber
holds about 30% of the world elastomers market and should retain its present
share until the early 1980s. World production of natural rubber is expected
to grow about 5.3% per annum, faster than in the past, while world consump-
tion of all rubbers is expected to grow at 5.4% per annum in the second half
of that decade. Unless the major producing countries take steps to expand
the natural rubber supply, it will grow at below market potential and the
continued demand growth expected in the 1980s will be met by expansion of
polyisoprene rubber capacity. If natural rubber is to maintain its market
share, supply in 1990 should be about 0.5 million tons higher than is presently
anticipated: This would apply even with relatively conservative assumptions
concerning the growth of isoprenic rubber demand and a relatively optimistic
assessment of the likely growth of natural rubber supply. Hence there is a
need for additional replanting and new planting beyond that now envisaged.
1/   Based on a joint IBRD/FAO study "The World Rubber Economy:  Structure,
Changes and Prospects". Draft report April 1978.



- 27 -
6.02      Both demand and supply of natural rubber are quite insensitive to
price changes in the short-term, with wide price fluctuations occurring when
changes in economic activity induce relatively small demand shifts, or when
supply is temporarily reduced. Prices for natural rubber have increased
sharply from the depressed levels of 1975 as demand increased following the
growth of industrial activity and the recovery of motor vehicle and tire pro-
duction. The shift in the US to radial tires, which require more natural
rubber than conventional tires, also stimulated demand. Natural rubber
producers still have a substantial cost advantage over polyisoprene. Con-
tinued strength in the natural rubber specific demand favors the short-term
price outlook. In the longer term, the price of natural rubber is limited by
prices of the synthetics, which move between a floor set by styrene butadiene
rubber, and a ceiling set by polyisoprene rubber, which competes directly with
natural rubber. Natural rubber prices in constant terms are expected to con-
tinue to increase gradually until the late 1980s. Assuming constant crude
oil prices and no excessive expansion of the production capacity of basic
petrochemicals during the 1980s, the RSS1 CIF New York price of natural
rubber in 1990 should be US 45 to 51l/lb in 1978 constant dollar terms, or
in current terms, 87 to 97 U/lb, compared with 41.6i/lb in 1977.
6.03      A new International Agreement on Rubber may bring about an important
change in the market structure of natural rubber. The Association of Natural
Rubber Processing Countries (ANRPC) will attempt to stabilize prices around
market trend levels by means of an internationally held and financed buffer
stock. If successful, this new agreement could help to reduce short-term
fluctuations in natural rubber prices and strengthen its market position.
Responsiveness of supply to changing market price conditions should also
improve with wider use of chemical stimulants to increase substantially the
yields of existing low-yielding trees.
Raw Rubber Procurement and the Dome_tic Market
6.04      GOB is the sole legal buyer of raw rubber in Burma although, as
mentioned previously, (para 1.07) considerable quantities of rubber are
exported illegally. The quantities and qualities of RSS and other forms of
raw rubber procured by AC in 1976/77, and the average for three years ending
1975/76, is shown in Table 27. Latex grades account for 91% of total procure-
ment, with scrap rubber accounting for the balance. Available data on use
of rubber output are incomplete due to inadequate recording of domestic con-
sumption. Information on the distribution of rubber output by grades for
1976/77 (Table 28), suggests that exports account for 87% of total uses with
the domestic consumption of 13% (1,295 tons) being shared between Government
sector (11%) and private sector (2%). It is believed that private sector
consumption may be considerably in excess of this official estimate.
6.05      The rubber consumed in Burma is used for bicycle tires and tubes,
shoes and slippers, retread compounds, washers, mats, bags, balloons, foam
rubber and gloves. There are 13 Government factories producing rubber pro-
ducts valued at about K15-22 M annually. In addition there are some 1,200
small private manufacturers producing rubber goods but the value of
their output is unknown. It is understood that GOB plans to construct a
tire plant within the next five years with a suggested raw rubber require-
ment of some 5,000 tons annually. For projection purposes, it has been



- 28 -
assumed that domestic consumption of rubber would grow at 10% per annum for
the next decade from its present base of about 1,200 tons, and that the
Government estates would supply most of the rubber to meet this growth.
Projected Prices
6.06      Prices for domestic and export sales were projected to permit
calculation of the financial return expected from the project. Domestic
sales prices have historically been about 35% above procurement prices for
latex grades and it was assumed that both procurement prices and domestic
sales prices would remain constant in real terms, at the equivalent of
US 38 cents per pound for RSS1. This assumption reflects GOB's policy
pricing rubber more or less independently of its world price, and further-
more, the assumption represents a conservative estimate appropriate for
the calculation of the financial return. Export prices have been based
on a CIF New York price of US$ 460 per pound for RSS1 with price relation-
ships for quality differentials as shown in Table 29. This export price is
at the lower end of the expected range (para 6.02) and has been assumed to
remain constant in real terms to simplify the analysis. In the economic
analysis, all rubber was valued at the equivalent of US 46 cents per pound
for RSS1 CIF New York.
Exports
6.07      It has been assumed that rubber produced on Government estates
would be assigned to meet the incremental domestic market demand as a first
priority, with any surplus exported. In practice, some of the incremental
domestic market demand would be met from private sector production, however,
since domestic sales prices are lower than export prices, this conservative
assumption has been used to calculate financial returns. Following these
assumptions, output from Government estates exported would rise from 3,130
tons (97% of total rubber output from Government estates), to 4,460 tons (59%
of total rubber output from Government estates) by 1993/94. The Government
estates contribution to the domestic market would rise from 120 tons to
3,110 tons over the same period.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Present Financial Position of the Rubber Section 1/
7.01      The main functions of the Rubber Section of AC are the operation
of 23 rubber estates and procurement of rubber from the private sector. In
addition, the Rubber Section operates two small oil palm estates, sells a
1/   The Rubber Section of the Procurement, Distribution, Planning and
Statistics Division of the Agriculture Corporation. See paragraph 4.01.



- 29 -
limited quantity of estate supplies to the private rubber producers, and
arranges sales of rubber on both the domestic and export markets. The
Rubber Section earned an overall net profit of K 11.6 (US$1.6 M) in 1976/77.
The 23 rubber estates returned a net profit of K 1.1 M (US$0.15 M) in 1975/76,
the most recent year for which disaggregated results are available. Four
estates incurred small losses ranging from K 16,000 to 40,000 (US$2,000 to
6,000). Two of them are now profitable and the other two could become so.
Cost of production records are maintained for each rubber estate. Rubber
production is labor intensive and wages and salaries comprise almost 75% of
total costs. The Tenasserim Division estates have lower production costs
than those in Mon State; and the estates outside the project area have costs
15% higher than those to be included in the project, but as a group return a
small profit. The two Government oil palm estates currently incur small
losses caused by over-aged trees on one estate and immature trees on the
other. GOB is looking into the feasibility of an oil palm project to be
financed by the Asian Development Bank. This would inter alia enable the
Government oil palm estates to operate profitably. The proposed rubber
rehabilitation project would increase the profitability of RS. In order that
IDA be made aware of developments that might jeopardize RS's financial status,
an agreement was reached with GOB that it would advise IDA for its review and
comment prior to committing RS to undertake substantial additional responsi-
bilities or investments other than those required for the Rubber Rehabilita-
tion Project. An agreement concerning accounting for all RS operations is in
para 3.42.
Financial Implications of the Project
7.02      The Rubber Section of AC is operated as a government department
as would be PCD. As such, all revenues are paid over to GOB and both capital
and operating expenses are met from GOB budgetary allocations. Table 30
shows the additional financial costs which RS would incur as a result of
the project. The derivation of the incremental sales revenue which would
accrue to RS as a result of the project, is shown in Table 31. The differ-
ences between the additional financial cost and the incremental revenue from
the project is a measure of the project's financial impact on RS and is
represented by the net benefit figure in Table 32. Table 32 shows a net
outflow for RS of about K 27 M over the first four years of the project.
(If price contingencies are included in the costs, this outflow increases
to about K 39 M). From year 5 onwards, the project would result in an annual
net inflow to RS increasing from K 1.1 M in year 5 to K 4.5 M by year 10
and reaching K 23.2 M by year 20. From RS's standpoint, the project would
have a financial rate of return (FRR) of about 17% (Table 32). The FRR
analysis includes taxes and physical contingencies as costs, but excludes
price contingencies assuming that inflation would affect both input and
output prices about equally.
7.03      RS is already operating profitably and making a net contribution
to GOB. Table 33 shows the projected cash flow for RS's rubber estate
operations assuming it implements the proposed project. On this basis, RS
would require a net contribution from GOB for the first three years of the
project amounting to K 13.6 M in total. Thereafter, RS would revert to



- 30 -
being a net contributor to GOB. As shown in Table 33, this net contribution
(surplus) from RS's rubber estate operations is expected to increase from
K 3.1 M in year 4 to reach K 21.8 M by year 15.
7.04      The impact of the project from GOB's standpoint is shown in Table
7.1 quite separately from RS's ongoing activities. This indicates that as
a result of the project, and after adjusting for transfer payments in taxes,
GOB would have to make available K 32.7 M to RS over the first four years
of the project. From year 5 onwards, the project would result in a net
surplus for GOB which would be of a comparable magnitude to the net benefit to
RS as shown in Table 32.
Table 7.1: FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOB
---------------- Million Kyats --------------
Year   Year   Year   Year   Years  Year  Year
1      2       3      4       1-4    5 ... 10
Incremental expenditure
on project /a            20.8   18.3   16.3   10.5   66.3   7.3         8.9
Incremental sales
revenue /b                8.6    8.2    8.5    8.3   33.6   8.4 /b 13.4 /b
Net Outflow                12.2   10.1    8.2    2.2   32.7    -           -
Net Inflow                   -       -      -       -       -    1.1      4.5
/a   From Table 30, Project Financial Cost net of duties and taxes.
/b   From Table 32.
VIII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS
Benefits
8.01      The project would result in the modernization of Burma's Govern-
ment estates. The major tangible benefit would be the incremental production
from Government estates which would total 28,000 long tons over 15 years
valued at US$25 M 1/. The annual incremental production from the project
would reach 3,600 long tons by 1993/94 valued at US$3.3 M. The project would
pave the way for further rehabilitation and expansion of the rubber sub-sector
which is predominantly composed of smallholders, by creating an effective and
well trained staff competent in all aspects of rubber development and by
developing high yielding planting material suitable for Burmese conditions.
I/   As mentioned in para 5.13, incremental production would continue to
increase without reaching a plateau. The period of 15 years was
chosen as representing half of the project life.



- 31 -
The project would provide incremental employment totalling about 3,200 man-
years during the four year implementation phase. (Civil works would provide
1,200 incremental man-years, replanting and maintenance 3,200 incremental
man-years, and production 1,200 fewer man-years because of more efficient
production and processing techniques. In the longer term, the project would
continue to provide employment for the present estate labor force many of whom
would have lost their jobs without the project.) Most of the employment
opportunities would go to landless families or would supplement the incomes of
families with insufficient land to fully employ family labor resources.
Improvement and expansion of Burma's sole crumb rubber processing facility
would provide Burma with valuable experience in the production of technically
specified rubber while offering the opportunity for Burma to establish its
credentials as a producer of specified rubbers which are increasingly in
demand.
Economic Analysis
8.02      The cost and benefit streams used to calculate the economic rate
of return (ERR) for the project are in Table 34. Project life has been taken
as 30 years which represents about 75% of the expected economic life for
rubber under Burmese conditions. No residual value has been assigned to
project investments. Foreign exchange in both costs and benefits has been
shadow priced at the rate of 15 kyats to the US dollar compared with an
official exchange rate which averaged 7.2 kyats/US dollar during appraisal.
On the private market, foreign currency is traded at rates between K 20 to 25
per US dollar:  this rate reflects not only the relative scarcity of foreign
exchange in Burma but also the risks associated with these illegal transac-
tions. There are insufficient data to permit use of standard World Bank
procedures to estimate a shadow price of foreign exchange (SER). However,
estimates of the SER have been carried out by adjusting the trade balance to
account for under-recording of imports and by estimating the tariff equivalent
of the numerous non-tariff restrictions on both imports and exports. The SER
thus estimated is about K 15/US dollar. Project costs include physical con-
tingencies and exclude all identifiable duties and taxes. All project com-
ponents, whether directly productive or not, have been included at their full
value. The prices used were those prevailing at the time of appraisal adjusted
to mid-1978 values. Wages for laborers for all project activities have been
included at the full market cost. In some parts of the project area labor is
in short supply and the wages and other benefits provided to laborers represent
the minimum inducement required to attract and hold the required work force.
Project benefits comprise the incremental production arising from the replant-
ing of over-aged and low-yielding rubber, from new plantings, and from improved
husbandry and exploitation techniques for replanted, new, and existing plant-
ings. Benefits were estimated by projecting production for the 'with' and
'without' project situation for 30 years. This production was valued at
world market prices using World Bank forecasts with appropriate adjustments
for freight, insurance, and quality differentials.
8.03      On the above assumptions, the ERR has been estimated at about 30%.
This return is higher than the estimated financial rate of return reflecting
primarily the impact of shadow pricing foreign exchange, but also, the



- 32 -
higher revenues obtained when all output is valued at world prices rather
than by using both domestic and export prices as was appropriate for the
financial rate of return.
Project Risks
8.04      The project has been designed to minimize risks by limiting the
project to the State sector and by setting modest objectives. Despite this,
the project does face identifiable risks. Since the project proposes the
introduction of a technology as yet unproven in Burma, there are technolo-
gical risks.  The accumulated experience with high-yielding clones and
modern exploitation techniques in nearby Malaysia, Indonesia, and Thailand,
permit a high degree of confidence that the existing modern technology can be
successfully introduced to Burma. Provision of extensive overseas staff
training and technical assistance, will also minimize any risk that the modern
technology is incompletely or incorrectly applied.
8.05      The project also faces institutional risks.  Successful implementa-
tion of the project would require a management structure in RS which is able
to demand and achieve excellence from its staff, to effectively plan and
finance its annual work plan, and, to ensure timely delivery of inputs and
execution of field activities. Such seemingly basic requirements have not
always been evident in government departments and there is the risk that this
project will face the same shortcomings. This is a risk which is not easily
avoided. Alternative management structures have been considered, specifically
the creation of a new corporation, bound by GOB's 'Commercial Guidelines for
State Economic Enterprises'. However, experience with such enterprises in
Burma indicates that it is not always an effective approach. Furthermore,
this proposal was contrary to GOB's desires, and further, raised doubts
whether it would effectively preclude the subsequent spread of modern tech-
nology to the much larger private sector of the rubber industry since the
obligation of a corporation to return a profit would tend to discourage
extension and research activities. The proposed management structure whereby
RS/PCD is a government department is thus a considered risk.  Suitable assur-
ances were obtained that GOB would introduce an incentive scheme for estate
staff which would reduce the risk (para 4.02). About 22% of the credit
disbursements, specifically those for project plantings, would be directly
tied to project achievements thus providing an incentive for GOB to ensure the
project was implemented promptly and efficiently.
8.06      The project also faces the risk that its implementation and super-
vision may be impeded by insecurity in the project area. This risk has been
fully discussed with GOB during appraisal and GOB has given its assurance
that it will provide security adequate to ensure successful project imple-
mentation and full project supervision. The restriction of the project to
specific sites will also minimize security risks.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.07      The sensitivity analysis indicates that the economic rate of return
for the project would remain above 25% even if project costs increased 10%,
or the value of the project's incremental production decreased 10%. Details
of the sensitivity analysis are in Table 35.



- 33 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, the principal agreements reached with GOB
were that:
(a) the two government creping mills at Rangoon and Mergui would
be rehabilitated using equipment supplied under the project,
and would be operated in such a manner as to ensure effi-
ciency and quality of output (para 3.19);
(b) RS would be headed, not later than April 1, 1980, by an
officer with the rank of General Manager whose experience
and qualifications are satisfactory to IDA and that RS's
head office would be staffed with not less than eleven
officers whose experience and qualifications were agreed
during negotiations. The eleven officers in the support
staff would have experience and qualifications satisfactory
to IDA (para 3.24);
(c) GOB would empower RS to construct buildings with a unit
cost of not more than K 100,000 and would also ensure
the necessary building materials were available to RS
in a timely manner in order to allow RS to carry out
such work (para 3.34);
(d) an incentive scheme, satisfactory to IDA would be imple-
mented for estate workers on project estates for the
duration of the project (para 4.02); and
(e) GOB would consult with IDA prior to committing RS to
undertake substantial additional responsibilities or
investments other than those required for the Rubber
Rehabilitation Project (para 7.01).
9.02      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of US$4.5 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would
be the Government of Burma.



- 34 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 1
BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Background
1.        The Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma (GOB)
plans to undertake a Rubber Rehabilitation Project and seeks technical assis-
tance to supplement the efforts of its own staff. The project would be im-
plemented over a period of four years and is expected to cost about US$8 mil-
lion. The project's objectives are:
(i)  to improve productivity and increase the quantity and
quality of rubber produced on the Government estates
in the project area which comprise Mon State and
Tenasserim Division; and
(ii)  to expand Burma's crumb rubber processing capacity by
relatively minor improvements to its sole existing
plant, thus providing valuable experience in this
technology whilst enabling Burma to establish its
credentials as a minor crumb rubber producer.
(iii)  The establishment of a well-trained staff, competent
in modern rubber production and processing technology,
which would subsequently be responsible for the devel-
opment of the rubber industry in Burma and the selection
of high yielding planting material suited to Burmese
conditions.
Technical Assistance Required
2.        Technical assistance totalling about 76 man-months is required to
supplement the staff training under the project. The primary objective of the
technical assistance would be to improve the Rubber Section (RS)/Plantation
Crop Division (PCD)* implementation capacity by providing in-service training
and advice. The assistance has been scheduled to minimize the duration of
visits by individual advisors with the intention of establishing work programs
to be implemented in the consultant's absence apart from periodic check
*    The Rubber Section is currently designated as the implementing agency.
With the proposed reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forests, it is anticipated that a Plantation Crop Division will be
created as the successor to the Rubber Section.



- 35 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 2
visits. The consultants would also be required to assist GOB in the prepara-
tion of a second project to assist rubber development. The suggested phasing
of technical assistance inputs is shown in Figure 1.
Consultant Qualifications and Job Descriptions
Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor
Qualifications
3.        Graduate in agricultural science or related discipline with at
least seven years experience at a senior level in rubber estate management.
Competent in all aspects of estate management including inter alia, accounts,
record keeping, labor management, rubber husbandry, exploitation practices,
processing, and conduct of field trials. Previous experience directing multi-
discipline team of consultants required.
Job Description
4.        The Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor would work
closely with his counterpart (Deputy General Manager - Estates and Research)
to plan and supervise the work of all other consultants to the project, liaise
with GOB and IDA, and report regularly on project progress. After an initial
survey of the present situation, he would revise the tentative technical
assistance schedule in conjunction with RS staff. He would advise RS on the
procurement of project equipment and civil works and on project implementation
generally. He would provide advice to RS staff in the preparation of Five
Year Development Programs for each estate and would assist in a review of
estate reporting systems. As part of his reporting responsibilities, he would
inspect project plantings and certify the area of such plantings that has
been satisfactorily established. His report would be submitted to IDA through
RS as the basis for disbursements against project plantings. He would be
expected to delegate much of his implementation work to RS staff and to
regularly check on its progress rather than carrying out the work himself.
(About 30 man months over four years.)
Adaptive Research and Monitoring Advisor
Qualifications
5.        Graduate in agricultural science or related discipline with post-
graduate training and experience in rubber agronomy research at an applied
level. Extensive experience in conduct and analysis of field trials. Some
experience in commercial estate operations with particular emphasis on
establishment and use of monitoring systems.
Job Description
6.        The Research and Monitoring Advisor would work under the direction
of the Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor. He would work
closely with two counterparts: an agronomist who would be the senior field



- 36 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 3
research officer; and the Monitoring Officer in the General Manager's office.
His initial assignment would be to identify priorities for adaptive research
after reviewing the existing situation and collating previous research work;
it is considered unlikely that RS would conduct any basic research during the
period of the project. He would then report his findings and recommend set-
ting up field trials to ultimately generate recommendations for the estates
covering, inter alia manuring schedules, cover crops, planting material,
stimulation, and immature rubber husbandry. He would outline procedures for
the establishment of the field trials and return periodically to check on
progress, to provide further guidance, and to assist in the analysis of re-
sults. His work with the Monitoring Officer would involve a thorough review
of the existing system and preparation of recommendations for change after
consultation with RS staff and the Project Coordination and Estate Management
Advisor. He would continue to provide advice on the operation and use of the
project monitoring system and to recommend changes as suggested by experience.
(About 20 man months).
Training Consultant
Qualifications
7.        Graduate in agricultural science or related discipline with post
graduate experience in design and conduct of training courses for rubber
managemenit.
Job Description
8.        The Training Consultant would work under the direction of the
Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor and would be responsible
for the design of courses in Basic Estate Management, Refresher Courses in
rubber husbandry, Budding Techniques, and other courses as required. He would
also identify requirements for training aids and advise on building layout for
trainees' accommodation. His counterpart would be a senior RS officer located
in the head office but he would also work closely with senior RS staff from
whom instructors would be selected. Finally, he would monitor the initial
training courses and recommend improvements. (About 6 months).
Consultant Pathologist
Qualifications
9.        Graduate in agricultural science or related discipline with post
graduate experience in pathology of rubber trees including fungal diseases.
Job Description
10.       The consultant pathologist would work under the direction of the
Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor and collaborate closely
with the adaptive research advisor. He would be primarily concerned with a
study of the importance of major diseases affecting rubber in Burma and with



- 37 -                        ANNEX I
Page 4
the preparation of recommendations for their economic control. In addition,
he would assist in the design and establishment of small adaptive research
trials to select the most cost efficient disease control measures. (About 6
months).
Land Use Consultant
Qualifications
11.       Graduate in Agricultural Science or related discipline with post
graduate experience in land use planning for tree crops.
Job Description
12.       The Land Use Consultant would work under the direction of the
Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor, with suitably qualified
RS staff or with staff seconded from the Land Use Bureau as required. His
initial task would be to confirm the suitability of those areas selected for
replanting under the project. He would also assist RS in the preparation of
a field manual to be used as a guide in subsequent land use planning by RS.
(About 3 man months).
Clone Identifier
Qualifications
13.       Capacity to accurately identify clones.
Job Description
14.       The clone identifier would indentify the clones now growing in the
Mudon nurseries and would ensure that these trees are permanently identifiable.
He would also train some RS staff in the techniques of clone identification
to the extent possible during his brief visit (About one man month).
Processing Consultant
Qualifications
15.       Graduate in rubber processing technology or related discipline with
experience in smoked sheet, crepe and crumb rubber production.
Job Description
16.       The Processing Consultant would work under the direction of the
Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor, in conjunction with the
Rubber Processing Officer from RS head office. He would review proposals for
the rehabilitation of both creping mills and the crumb plant and revise these
as necessary. He would advise RS on the procurement of the necessary process-
ing equipment and would return to Burma to see that the equipment was properly



- 38 -                       ANNEX I
Page 5
installed and operated. He would advise RS on methods to maintain high
quality output and, in particular, would prepare a production manual for
crumb processing at Thanbyuzayat. (About 4 man months).
Project Preparation
Qualifications
17.       Graduate in Economics or agricultural economics with prior experience
in project preparation including rubber projects.
Job Description
18.       The Project Preparation Consultant would work under the direction
of the Project Coordination and Estate Management Advisor together with senior
RS staff. He would review experience with the first phase project and,
together with RS staff, prepare proposals for a second rubber project. The
second project would be expected to build on the foundations of the present
project and to use the staff and infrastructure developed under the project
for a more broadly based follow-up project. The project proposal should be in
a form suitable for consideration by the international aid agencies. (About 6
man months).



- 39 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 1
BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
IDA Disbursements Against Local Expenditures for Project Plantings
1.        In the proposed project IDA would reimburse part of the local expen-
diture for rubber plantings. This would provide a measure of control and
should improve planting standards. The reimbursements would cover about 56%
of the initial planting and first year maintenance cost.
2.        To ensure that the plantings have been properly established, IDA
disbursements would be made after inspection of the planting. The consultant
Project Coordinator and Estate Management Advisor would inspect all project
plantings carried out between 1979 and 1982. Inspection would be carried
out about 12 months after plantings except for the 1982 plantings which
would be inspected in March 1983, about nine months after planting. The
consultant would submit a report to RS indicating the number of acres which
RS had established satisfactorily based on the following critieria:
(a) Stand: There should be between 175 and 190 trees per acre,
evenly spaced and planted in rows. There should not be
more than two consecutive vacancies within a row;
(b) Purity: For plantings using budded stumps and field bud-
ding, 95-98% of the stand should have been satisfactorily
budded;
(c) Growth: Averge growth rate of the stand should have been
of a satisfactory standard;
(d) Inter-row vegetation: Should consist of acceptable species
properly controlled. A strip six feet wide or a circle six
feet in diameter should be weed-free around each tree;
(e) Pests and Diseases: Should have been adequately con-
trolled; and
(f) Terraces, Drains and Roads: Should have been properly
installed and adequately maintained.
3.        Disbursements would be made against certified statements based on
the consultant's reports which would be submitted to IDA by RS promptly after
completion of inspection each year. RS would retain full accounts indicating
the expenses incurred establishing rubber plantings under the project and
these accounts would be available for inspection by supervision missions, and
would be subject to audit as part of RS's accounts.



- 40 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        IDA would disburse the equivalent of US$240 per acre for each new
acre up to a maximum of 4,500 acres satisfactorily established under the
project. Rubber which had been established unsatisfactorily or which had
been established outside the project area, would not be eligible for dis-
bursement.



ANNEX 3
- 41 -
BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tables and Charts



- 42 -



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Production Equipment for Estates: Investment
(Thousand Kyats)
Year I         Year 2         Year 3        Local      Foreign                      Foreign        Duties
Item                                Unit Cost                                                  Cost       Cost         Total Cost       Exchange       and
1/       No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost                                No.   Cost          %          Taxes
Crawler tractor 70-80 HP & Equipment         700.0        1       700    1       700                     420        980           2  1,400        70
Tractor 50 HP *                               35.0        8       280    4       140    4       140      314        246         16    560         44
Trailers (3 ton capacity)*                    25.0       16      400    8        200    8       200      480        320         32    800         40
Grader blade                                  12.0        8        96    2        24                      31         89         10    120         74
Fixed Latex tanks (400 gallon)                11.0        6        66    4        44    5        55       69         96         15    165         58
Mobile Latex tanks                            27.0        3        81                   4       108       79        110          7    189         58
Water pump (4", 5 HP)*                         7.0        4        28    3        21    3        21       49         21         10      70        30
Truck (3.5 ton capacity)*                    120.0        7      840    4        480    1       120      777        663         12  1,440         46
Four-wheel drive vehicle*                    100.0        3      300    1        100                     220        180          4    400         45
Pick-up (I ton capacity)*                     70,0        8      560    7        490                     577        473         15  1,050         45
Motorcycles (250 cc)*                         11.0       10      110    7         77    2        22      117         92         19    209         44
Bicycles                                       1.0       22       22   21         21                      15         28         43      43        65
Fuel storage                                   2.4       10       24    5         12                      22         14         15      36        40
Chain saw                                      6.0       10        60    5        30    5        30       48         72         20    120         60
Knapsack sprayer                               1.0       30        30   12        12   18        18       18         42         60      60        70
Micron sprayer                                 5.0        4        20    3        15                       9         26          7      35        74
Generators                                    15.0        3        45    3        45    3        45       35        100          9    135         74
Diesel engines                                 7.0        3        21    2        14    2        14       13         36          7      49        74
Sub-total                                                    3,683           2,425            773   3,293       3,588              6,881        52           2,629
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                                  368            243              77     330        358                688         52            268
Price                                                          425             464            207      526        570              1,096        52             427
Total Equipment Cost                                           4,476           3,132          1,057   4,149       4,516              8,665         52          3,324
1/ Including 10% spares.
*/ Procurement reserved by GOB.



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
1/
Civil Works Investments on Estates
(Thousand Kyats)
Foreign       Duties
Unit Cost      Year 1         Year 2         Year 3      Local      Foreign      Total Cost       Exchange      and
Item                                                No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost   Cost          Cost        No.   Cost          %          Taxes
Manager's House 2/                             75.0       1        75    1        75    1        75     180          45        3      225        20            16
Assistant Manager's House 3/                  60.0        4       240    4       240    2       120     480         120       10      600        20            42
Worker's Quarters  4/                          30.0      40    1,200   40    1,200   60    1,800   3,780            420      140   4,200         10            84
Machinery Shelters 5/                         40.0        5       200    5       200    5       200     510          90               600        15            18
Access Roads (miles) 6/                        9.0        5        45    5        45    5        45     128            7              135         5             3
Fencing (miles) 7/                              7.0      20       140   20       140   20       140     231         189               420       45             42
Sub-total                                                  1,900          1,900          2,380   5,309          871            6,180        14           205
Contingencies
Physical (15%)                                               285             285           357      797         130              927        14            31
Price                                                        339            592          1,089   1,737          283            2,020        14            67
Total Civil Works                                               2,524          2,777          3,826   7,843       1,284            9,127         14           303
1/ Excluding extensions to processing buildings and smokehouses.
2/  Only provided l>here there is no existing house of suitable standard.  Solid construction.
3/ Solid construction.
_/ Two family dwellings, semi-permanent, wooden walls asbestos cement roof. Assume 2 workers per family housed.
5/  Open sided, wooden with GI or asbestos cement roof and cement floor.  One per estate.
6/  Allowance of 5 ml per estate at 9,000 K/ml.  About 50F% of cost is unskilled labor.  Road 'qith laterite surface as required.
7/ Assume average of four miles of barbed wire fencing per estate.
June 30, 1978.
,   I                                                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



TABLE 3
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Estates Staffing
(Thousand Kyats)
Without Project                  With Project
Estates                        Estates
Rank                    Annual  Outside  Project                Outside  Project
Cost 1/ Project  Area         Total    Project  Area         Total
Area     Estates    No.Cost  Area        Estates    No,cost
Estate Manager                  9.0      4         13        17          4         15       19
Superintendent                  6.9
Assistant Estate Manager        5.7       6        20        26          6         20       26
Branch Clerk                    5.4                 2         2                     2        2
Village Tract Manager           4.1       7        11        18          7         11       18
Upper Division Clerk            3.7                 9         9                   15        15
Village Manager                 2.8      34        50        84         34         30       64
Tractor Driver                  2.8                 3         3                   20        20
Lower Division Clerk            2.5       1         6         7          1          6        7
Mechanic Grade IV               2.5                 1         1                    15       15
Supervision Grade II            2.5      1          1         2          1        15        16
Carpenter Grade II              2.5      1                    1          1         5         6
Typist Grade II                 2.5
Mechanic Grade III              2.1                 4         4                    5         5
Technician Grade II             2.1                17        17                   17        17
Assistant Clerk Grade III       2.1                 1         1                     1        1
Mechanic Grade II               1.8                 2         2                   10        10
Driver                          1.8                 4         5          1        40        41
Assistant Clerk Grade II        1.8
Typist Grade I                  1.8
Carpenter Grade I               1.8                 1         1                   10        10
Supervisor Grade I              1.8                 7         7
Store Keeper                    1.8
Watchman/peon                   1.6       3        40        43          3        40        43
Laborers 2/                     1.6    276        508       784      1304       2580      3884
Officers 3/                              4         13        17         4         15        19
Other Ranks                             54        179       233        54        262       316
Total Staff 4/                          58        192       250        58        277       335
Total Annual Staff Costs  J                                      834                          1031
l/  Annual cost is based on midpoint salary plus 25/% for allowances and benefits.  Cost of
laborers is included in operations.
2/ The number of laborers without project does not include temporary laborers.With project,
the number of laborers is estimated based on the Year 5 situation with one tapper per
six acres tapped.
3/ Cfficer rank staff receive monthly salaries of K 450 or more.
4/ Excluding laborers.
July 12, 1978.



- 46 -                             TABLE 4
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Budwood Nursery Establishment and Production Schedule
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
Tavoy Nursery -
Area to be planted (ac) 2/                    270 3/      350 4/      450         600
Field area budgrafted (ac) 5/                   0         150         200         275
Area planted with polybags (ac)                 0         200         250         325
Budwood required (yards) 6/                           17,500       22,500      30,000
Budwood nursery planted (ac)                  2.0
Budwood nursery budded (ac)                               2.0
Budwood produced (yards) 7/                                        18,000      36,000
Mergui East Nursery
Area to be planted (ac) 2/                    270 3/      350         450         600
Field area budgrafted (ac) 5/                   0         150         200         275
Area planted with polybags (ac)                 0         200         250         325
Budwood required (yards) 6/                           17,500       22,500      30,000
Budwood nursery planted (ac)                  2.0
Budwood nursery budded (ac)                               2.0
Budwood produced (yards) 7/                                        18,000      36,000
Mergui West Nursery
Area to be planted (ac) 2/                    260 3/      300         300         300
Field area budgrafted (ac) 5/                   0         150         150         150
Area planted with polybags (ac)                 0         150         150         150
Budwood required (yards) 6/                           15,000       15,000      15,000
Budwood nursery planted (ac)                  1.0
Budwood nursery budded (ac)                               1.0
Budwood produced (yards) 7/                                         9,000      18,000
Total Requirements
Area to be planted (ac) 2/                    800 3/   1,000        1,200       1,500
Field area budgrafted (ac) 5/                   0         450         550         700
Area planted with polybags (ac)                 0         550         650         800
Budwood required (yards) 6/                     0     50,000       60,000      75,000
Budwood nursery planted (ac)                  5.0
Budwood nursery budded (ac)                               5.0
Budwood produced (yards) 7/                                 0      45,000      90,000
Budwood deficit (-) surplus + (yards)                (-50,000)  (-15,000)   +15,000
1/ Suggested location 8th Mile Estate.
2/ Estimate only. Includes replanting and new planting.
3/ Year 1 planting assumed to be 100%, Clonal Seedling Stumps (PBIG) (Planted in
nursery Feb. 1978).
4/ Year 2 and part of Year 3 budgrafting will use budwood from existing budwood garden
at Mudon.  The requirement is 39,000 yards for Year 2 (ie. about 1.5 ac mature
garden) and 2,000 yards for Year 3.
5/ Approximately 50% of total planting.
6/  Field budding 400 buddings/ac at 1.5 buds each and 12 buds/yd = 50 yd/ac.  Polybags
also required about 50 yd/ac eventually planted.
7/ Each acre nursery will provide 9,000 yards in year following budgrafting, 18,000 yd
in following year and 24,000 yd per year thereafter. Surplus budwood will be
available for distribution to smallholders.
July 5, 1978.



- 47 -
TABLE 5
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Budwood Nurseries: Cost of Establishment and Operation
(Kyats/Acre)
-------Inputs Per Acre of Nursery ---------
Machinery            Foreign
Labor        Materials  Hours       Total    Exchange
Kanday   Cost   No.  Cost  Cost         Cost/Ac      %
Establishment Operations
(Project Year 1)
Total Area 5.0 (ac) 1/
Site clearing                        15        90                               90         0
Plough x 2, harrow x 2                                           3     90       90        70
Manual levelling, root collection  10          60                               60         0
Paths and Drains                     15        90                               90         0
Fencing                               4        24         450                  474        60
Lining                                6        36                               36         0
Holing                               60       360                              360         0
Planting and supplying 2/            50       300       1,000                1,300         0
Manuring x 4 3/                        6       36         300                  336        75
Pest and disease control 4/          30       180         145                  325        45
Weeding x 6                          60       360                              360         0
Watering 5/                          40       240              16      24      264         5
Sub-total                        296    1,776        1,895         114   3,785        20
Operations (Project Year 2)
Budding 6/                          160       960         490               1,450         0
Upkeep x 6                           48       288                              288         0
Manuring Y 4 3/                        6       36         300                  336        75
Pruning and cutting back             15        90                               90         0
Pest and disease control 4/          30       180         145                  325        45
Tools                                                      70                   70        50
Sub-total                        259    1,554        1,005               2,559        17
Operations (Project Years 3 +)
Upkeep x 2                           16        96                               96         0
Manuring x 2 7/                        3       18         150                  168        75
Pruning                              10        60                               60         0
Pest and disease control 8/            5       30          75                  105        45
Budwood cutting                      20       120                              120         0
Tools                                                      50                   50        50
Sub-total                         54       324         275                 599        33
Total Yeai 1-5                                                               8,141
Budwood Produced 9/                                                        51,000
Cost per yard                                                                 0.16
1/ Three sites proposed as indicated Table 4,
2/  Plant 6,400 points/ac assume 10% supply.  Use 25,000 seeds @ K 4/1,000.
3/ 450 lb of Compound fertilizer ia K 1,500/ton.
4/ 4 lb Dithane @ K 17/lb, 5 lb Perenox @ K 14/lb.
1/2 lb Tenac @ K 15/lb, Total cost K 145.
5/ 4" pump 0.1 ac ft/hr @ K 1.5/hr.
4" waterings @ 4 hr/watering K .24 Plus labor 10 md/watering.
6/ Assume 1,400 yards of budwood @ K 0.35/yard. Labor 40 budgrafts/manday.
7/ 225 lb of Compound fertilizer @ K 1,500/ton.
8/ 5 lb Perenox plus 1/3 lb Tenac.
9/  Assume 9,000 yards Year 3, 18,000 yards Year 4 and 24,000 yards thereafter.  i.e.
51,000 yards over 5 years.
July 5, 1978.



- 48 -
TABLE 6
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Polybag Nursery Establishment and Production Schedule-l
(Kyats/Acre)
------ Inputs Per Acre of Nursery---          -  Foreign
Labor        Materials  Machinery  Total  Exchange
Mandays  Cost       Cost    Hours Cost  Cost         %
Establishment 2/
Site clearing                           15       90                               90      0
Plough x 2, harrow x 2                                             3      90      90      70
Manual levelling, root collection   10           60                               60       0
Paths and drains                        15       90                              90       0
Fencing                                  4       24       450                   474      60
Sub-total                         44      264       450             90    804       43
Operations
Soil collection, screening and
polybag filling 3/                   110      660   16,000    10    300 16,960         80
Planting seed 4/                       100      600       400                 1,000       0
Weeding                                 32      192                             192       0
Manuring 5/                             20      120    1,000                  1,120      75
Bamboo                                                    715                   715       0
Sand                                                      220                   220       0
Budding 6/                             667   4,002        800                 4,802       0
Tools                                                   1,200                 1,200      50
Pest and disease control 7/             30      180       145                   325      45
Watering x 4                            10       60                       24     84       5
Collection and transport 8/             96      576                   5,400  5,976       60
Total                            1,065   6,390   20,480            5,724 32,594       58
Production - 22,000 polybags 9/
Average cost of operations and
materials per polybag                                                          1.48
1/ Germinated seeds planted in polybag in July-August and budded in March-April aged
eight months. The polybags are planted in the field in May-June aged 10 months.
2/ Nurseries are established in Year 1 of project.
3/ Polybags cost K 0.4, require 40,000/ac.
4/ Seed cost K 4/1,000 2 germinated seeds per bag, 80% germination, initial density
40,000 bags/ac. Cost K 400.
5/ 1,500 lb of Compound 11-18-4 @ K 1,500/ton.
6/ 40,000 points require 5,000 yards at 12 buds/yard and 1.5 buds/point. Cost K 0.16/yd
from Table 5, Assume 60 budgrafts/manday.
7/ 4 lb Dithane @ K 17/lb, 5 lb Perenox @ K 14/lb, 1/2 lb Tenac @ K 15/lb.
8/  Includes collection, loading and delivery to other estates assumed average 100 ml
round trip.
9/ Assume 55% recovery.
July 5, 1978.



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Total Requirements and Costs for Polybag Nurseries
Costs Years 1-4         Foreign
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange %    Year 5 +
Polybag Requirements 1/                  0       110,000  130,000  160,000                                                 100,000
Area of Nursery to be Established
(ac) 2/                                 5.0         1.0       1.5       0                                                     0
Total Area of Nursery (ac)               5.0         6.0       7.5       7.5                                                    7-5
Costs (Thousand Kyats)
Establishment                       4           1         1                   3         3       6          43             0
Operations 3/                    163          192      237       148        311      429    740            58           148
Total Costs Years 1-4                  167         193       238       148       314       432    746           58
1/  Requirement for Year 2, 3 and 4 indicated in Table 4 . Assume 200 polybags planted out per acre. In Year 5+
assumed that of the 1,000 ac planted per year, 500 ac polybags.
2/  Project Year runs from April to March.  Hence polybags are available in year following establishment.  Establishment
must take place in April-June period.  Area calculation assumes one acre of nursery produces 22,000 polybags.
3/  Assumed that all costs are incurred in year seeds are planted ie. transport cost are brought forward .  Costs are cal-
culated on basis of the average cost figure from Table 6.
July 5, 1978.



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Phasing of Project Plantings and Operations
(Acres)
Project Years
1        2         3         4         5         6        7         8         9         10        11
Area Planted with:                                      Project Planting ----
Clonal Seedling Stumps (CSS)                    800
Direct Seed (DS)                                450       550       700       500       500       500      500       500       500       500       500
Polybag (PB)                                       0      550       650       800       500       500      500       500       500       500       500
Total AreA Planted                            1,250    1,100    1,350    1,300    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Total Area Established -                         800    1,000    1,200    1,500    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Operations
Land Preppr-tion  2/                          1,250    1,100    1.350    1,300    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
CSS or DS planting 3/                       1,250       550       700       500       500      500       500       500       500       500       500
PB plnting 4/                                -         550       650       800       500      500       500       500       500       500       500                U
DS budgrafted 5/                                          450       550       700       500       500      500       500       500       500       500
1st Year of maintenance 6/                                800    1,000    1,200    1,500    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
2nd                                                                 800    1,000    1,200    1,500    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
3rd                                                                           Bo 800    1,000    1,200    1,500    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
4th            "                                                                        800    1,000    1,200    1,500    1,000    1,000    1,000
5th   "                                                                                          800    1,000    1,200    1,500    1,000    1,000
6th   "         "                                                                                          800    1,000    1,200    1,500    1,000
1st Year tapping                                                                                                     800    1,000    1,200    1,500
2nd   "                                                                                                                        800    1,000    1,200
3rd                                                                                                                                      800    1,000
4th   "                                                                                                                                            800
1/ The direct seeded rubber is not considered to be established until it is field budded which occurs in the year after planting of seeds.
27 Constant from Year 5.
t3 Constant from Year 4.
4/  Constant from Year 5.
5/ Constant from Year 5.
6/ Maintenance Years 1-6 constant from Year 11.
t,1



- 51 -                               TABLE 9
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Establishment Costs: Direct-Seeded, Field Budded Rubber
(Kyats/acre)
-------- Inputs Per Acre ----------
Labor         Materials  Machinery  Total  Foreign
Operations                            Mandays  Cost    Costs    Hcurs Cost  Cost   Exchange %
YEAR 0 (Planting Year)
LAND PREPARATION -/
Felling (chain saw) 2/                 19      114               65    228    342         48
Underbrushing                           5       30                               30         0
Poisoning (50% of area) 3/              2       12       58                      70        62
Stacking and burning                   12       72                               72        0
Lining and pegging                      2       12         4                     16         0
Terraces (20%)  4/                      9       54                               54        0
Fencing                                 4       24      315                     339       56
Weed control 5/                          3      18        24                     42        43
Drains                                  2       12                               12        0
Access road 6/                          5       30      100        3     90    220         30
Tools                                                    15                      15       50
Transport                                                                 34     34        70
Temporary buildings                      6      36        80                    116         0
Sub-total                         69      414      596             352  1,362        38
PLANTING 1/
Sowing cover crop 7/                   20      120       40                     160       20
Access road maintenance                 2       12                 1      30     42        55
Holing                                   7      42                               42         0
Planting and supplying 8/                5       30       32                      62       30
Pruning                                 1         6                               6         0
Fertilizer  9/                                          125                     125        75
- Rubber x 2                            2       12                               12         0
- Cover crop x l                        1         6                                6        0
Upkeep
- Strip weeding                         8       48                               48         0
- Mulching                              2       12                                12        0
Pests and diseases 10/                  2       12        38                     50        56
Fire protection                         6       36                               36         0
Tools                                                                    10      10        50
Transport                                              _                 51      51        70
Sub-total                         56      336      235              91    662        29
TOTAL ESTABLISHMENT COSTS (YEAR 0)                750      831             443  2.024        37
1/  Land preparation to be completed by June fcr planting July-August of same year.
2/  Based on 130 trees/ac @ 0.5 hrs/tree.  Machinery costs estimated (a K 3.5/h--.
3/  Using 2,4,5 T (Butyl  ester) 2 1/ac @ K 29/1.
4/ Assumes 20% of area requires some terracing.
5/  2,4 D for noxious weeds 2 lb/ac @ K 12/lb.
6/ Laterite used as required. Tractors with grader blade 3 hours @ k 30/hr.
7/  10 lb/ac @ K 4/lb.
8/  8 seeds per point 190 points.  Seeds K 4/1,000.  75 lb rock phosphate added to
holes @ K 0.34/lb.
9/  Total of 150 lb rock phosphate plus 110 lb of 11:18:4 (K 1,500/ton).
10/  2 applications of Perenox 2 lb @ K 14/lb.
July 5, 1978.



- 52 -
TABLE 10
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Budding Year (1): Costs for Direct-Seeded, Field Budded Rubber
(Kyats/Acre)
--------- Inputs Per Acre ---------
Labor        Materials  Machinery  Total  Foreign
Operations                           Mandays  Cost    Costs    Hours Cost Cost   Exchange %
Budding 1/                             10        60       8                     68        0
Budding tools                                            20                     20       50
Pruning and elimination                 2        12                             12        0
Manuring 2/                             1         6      37                     43       65
Strip weeding                           8        48                             48        0
Slashing                                2        12                             12        0
Mulching                                2        12                             12        0
Pests and diseases 3/                   4        24      56                     80       49
Fire protection                         6        36                             36        0
Road and drain maintenance              2        12                   30        42       54
Tools                                                    10                     10       50
Transport                                                             51        51       70
Total Year 1 Costs                     37       222    131            81       434       35
1/ Budwoods 50 yards/ac @ K 0.16/yd (Table 5).
2/ 55 lb of Compound fertilizer @ K 1,500/ton.
3/ Four rounds Perenox 4 lb @ K 14/lb.
July 5, 1978.



- 53 -                                    TABLE 11
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Establishment Costs: Polybag Plantings- (Kyats/acre)
-------- Inputs Per Acre --------
Labor        Material  Machinery  Total  Foreign
Operations                        Manday  Cost   Cost         Hours Cost  Cost   Exchange %
1/
LAND PREPARATION -
Felling  (chain saw) 2!            19      114              65     228      342        48
Underbrushing                       5       30                               30          0
Poisoning (50%  of area) 3/         2       12      58                       70         62
Stacking and burning              12        72                               72         0
Lining and pegging                  2       12       4                       16         0
Terraces (20%) 4/                   9       54                               54          0
Fencing                             4       24     315                      339        56
Weed control 5/                     3       18      24                       42        43
Drains                              2       12                               12         0
Access road 6/                      5       30    100         3      90    220           0
Tools                                               15                       15        50
Transport                                                            34      34        70
Temporary buildings                 6       36      80                      116         0
Sub-total                    69      414     596             352  1,362          33
PLANTING
Sowing Cover Crop 7/               20      120      40                     160         20
Access road maintenance             2       12                1      30      42        55
Holing                              7       42                               42         0
Planting and supplying 8/           8       48     352                     400         52
Pruning                             1        6                                6         0
Fertilizer 9/                                      125                     125         75
- Rubber x 2                        2       12                               12         0
- Cover crop x 1                    1        6                                6         0
Upkeep
- Strip weeding                     8       48                               48         0
- Mulching                          2       12                               12         0
Pests and diseases 10/              4       24      56                       80        49
Fire Protection                     6       36                              36          0
Tools                                               10                      10         50
Transport 11/                                                       51      51         70
Sub-total                    61      366    583               81  1,030          42
TOTAL ESTABLISHMENT COSTS
(Year 1)                         130       780  1,179              433  2,392          37
1/  Polybags are planted aged 10 months in May-June ie. Year 1 Land Preparation takes
place in same year.
2/  Based on 130 trees/ac @ 0.5 hrs/tree.  Machinery costs estimated @ K 3.5/hr.
3/  Using 2,4,5 T (Butyl  ester) 2 1/ac @ K 29/1.
4/  Assumes 20% of area requires some terracing.
5/  2, 4 D for noxious weeds 2 lb/ac e K 12/lb.
6/ Laterite used as required. Tractors with grader blade 3 hours @ K 30/hr.
7/  10 lb/ac @ K 4/lb.
8/  Rock phosphate added to holes 75 lb/ac.  220 polybag plants C K 1.48.
9/  Total of 150 lb rock phosphate plus 110 lb of Compound fertilizer ( K 1,500 ton.
10/  Four applications of Perenox 4 lb @ K 14/lb.
11/  Excludes transport cost of polybags included in 8/.
July 6, 1978.



- 54 -                                 TABLE 12
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Establishment Costs:  Clonal Seedling Stump Plantings (Kyats/acres)
----------Inputs Per Acre -----------
Operations                          Labor          Materials   Machinery   Total   Foreign
Manday   Cost       Cost       Hours Cost   Cost    Exchange %
1/
LAND PREPARATION-:
Felling (chain saw) 2/           19       114                 65    228       342         48
Underbrushing                     5        30                                  30           0
Poisoning (50% of area) 3/        2        12         58                       70          62
Stacking and burning             12        72                                  72           0
Lining and pegging                2        12           4                      16           0
Terraces (20%) 4/                 9        54                                  54           0
Fencing                           4        24        315                      339          56
Weed control 5/                   3        18          24                      42          43
Drain                             2        12                                  12           0
Access road 6/                    5        30         100       3     90      220          30
Tools                                                 15                       15          50
Transport                                                             34       34          70
Temporary buildings               6        36          80                     116           0
Sub-total                  69        414        596             352   1,362          38
PLANTIN&-/
Sowing cover crop 7/             20       120         40                      160          10
Access road maintenance           2        12                   1      30      42          55
Holing                            7        42                                  42           0
Planting and supplying 8/         5        30        576                      606          55
Pruning                           1         6                                    6          0
Fertilizer                                           125                      125          75
- Rubber x 2                      2        12                                  12           0
- Cover crop x 1                  1         6                                   6           0
Upkeep
- Strip weeding                   8        48                                  48           0
- Mulching                        2        12                                  12           0
Pests and diseases 10/            2        12          38                      50          56
Fire protection                   6        36                                  36           0
Tools                                                                 10       10          50
Transport                                                             51       51          70
Sub-total                   56       336        779              91   1,206          42
TOTAL ESTABLISHMENT COSTS                    750     1,375             443   2,568           40
1/  Land preparation to be completed by June for planting July-August of same year.
2/  Based on 130 hrs/ac @ 0.5 hrs/tree.  Machinery costs estimated @ K 3.5/hr.
3/  Using 2,4,5 T (Butyl ester) 2 1/ac @ K 29/1.
4/ Assumes 20% of area requires some terracing.
5/ 2, 4 D for noxious weeds 2 lb/ac @ K 12/lb.
6/ Laterite used as required. Tractors with grader blade 3 hours @ K 30/hr.
7/ 10 lb/ac @ K 4/lb.
8/ 220 stumps at estimated cost of K 2.5/stump (55% F.E.) rock phosphate 75 lb added
to holes.
9/ Total of 150 lb rock phosphate plus 110 lb of 11:18:4 (K 1,500/ton).
10/ 2 applications of Perenox 2 lb @ K 14/lb.
July 7, 1978.



- 55 -                            TABLE 13
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Manuring Schedule for New Plantings
--- Field Buddings - CSS or Polybags ---
Year of        Approximate                   Age from                 Age from                 Cost per
Maintenance   Timing           Fertilizer   Cut Back   Quantity   Planting   Quantity   Acre
(months)    lb/ac       (months)     lb/ac       Kyats  /
1             April       11:18:4:3          8         110           11         110         75
October                       14         110           17         110         75
150
2             April                         20         110           23         110          75
3             April                         23         220           35         220)       150
4             April       18:11:5:2-5       14         220           47         220        150
5             April                         56         220           59         220        150
6             April                         68         220           71         220        150
Year of
Production
1+ 2/         April       15:7:18:2         92+-       340           95+        340        100 3/
1/  PCD is currently mixing its own fertilizer using domestically produced urea and
imported ingredients.  It is intended to continue this practice at least in part however
some compound fertilizer will have to be intported.  An allowance of K 1,500 per ton has
been made for all fertilizer used during immature period other than rock phosphate which
is costed at K 770 per ton. The foreign exchange estimated at 70%.
2/  First year of production corresponds to year 8 for all forms of planting material.
3/  It is assumed that the fertilizer mixture for mature plantings would be prepared
domestically using urea, rock phosphate, Mluriate of Potash and Kieserite to give nutrient
ratio of 15:7:18:2. The cost of this mixture is estimated to be K 644 with a foreign
exchange component of 55% and a subsidy of K 150 per ton. Fertilizer is applied at rate
of 2 lb/tree from start of exploitation
July 6, 1978.



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Maintenance Costs: All Plantings
Third, Fourth and Fifth
First Year Maintenance                          Second Year Maintenance                                 Year Maintenance                       Sioth Year Maintenance
0,                               0      5~~~0                                   0                                               0      0,
5~~~ ~ ~~~~~ t~  ns   o                                ca             e              X4                  on           v              <a                pe;
_i 0                          0 5tx             ,     _           0         5  oox                                         : (: 0  0                                               x 0  t   X  0    50
Operations                           Man-                                           Man-                                            Man-                                           Man-
day  Cost   Cost   Cost   Cost    %            day  Cost   Cost   Cost   Cost          ½      day  Cost   Costt  COst    Cost    I            day  Cost   Cost   Cost   Cost    %
Cover crop 1/                          4      24        8              32     0
Roads, drains terraces                 3       18              15      33   20
Supplying 2/                           2      12                       12     0
Pruning                                1        6                       6    0
Manuring 3/                            4      24      150             174   60        2       12      75              87   60         2      12     150              162   65         2      12     150              162   65            1
Uipkeep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
Strip or circle weeding             8      48                      48      0       5      30                       30     0        3      18                       18     0       3       18                       18     0
-Slashing                             2      12                       12     0       2      12                       12     0        2      12                       12     0        2      12                       12     0
-Mulching                             2      12                       12     0       2      12                       12     0        1       6                        6     0        1       6                        6    0
Pests and diseases 4/                  4      24       56              80   49        4       24      56              80   49         1       6        3               9   23         1       6        3               9   23
Fire protection                        6      36                       36    0        6       36                      36      0       6      36                       36     0        6      36                       36     0
Tools                                                  10              10   50                        10               10   50                       10               10    50                       10               10    50
Transport                                                      51      51   70                                51       51   70                                51      51   70                                 51      51    70
Tenporarv buildings                    4      24       80             104     0
Fence repairs                                                                         4       24      18              42      0       2      12        9              21     0
Tree marking                                                                                                                                                                          2      12                       12     0
Tapping equipment 5/                                                                                                                                                                                126              126   40
TOTAL PER YEAR                        40     240     304       66     610   31       25     150      159      51     360    37       17     102     172       51     325    45       17     102     289       51     442    45
1/  Includes 2 lb/ac re-seeding.
2/ Cost of materials incloded in establishment cost.
3/ Manuring schedule for maintenance period is given in Table 13.
Perenos 4 lb in four application for Years 1 and 2.  Petrolatom  fur wound dressing in Years 3 +.                                                                                                                                   H5.
S/  Comprises follo,ing per acre:  190 cups (a K 0.45, 190 spoots (a K 0.04, 190 cup hangers @ K 0.1, I tapping knife, one sharpening stone, one lump basket, one 15 liter latex bucket and                                              r
two 30 liter lates buckets, per tapper - 1/6th *,f these quantities per acre.  Total cost per acre K 126, 40% foreign exshange.                                                                                                      0
Jl1y 7, 1978.



- 57 -                                  TABLE 15
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
(Kyats/acre)
Annual Operating Costs for Tapped Rubber in Project Area
----- Inputs Per Acre of Tapped Rubber -----
Labor 1/    Materials   Machinery   Total   Foreign
Operations               Manday  Cost       Cost        Hours Cost   Cost    Exchange %
Maintenance
Roads, drains and
terraces                  2       12                        15         27        39
Slashing and weeding         2       12                                  12         0
Pests and diseases 2/        1        6         3                         9        23
Manuring 3/                  1        6       100                       106        52
Fire protection              2       12                                  12         0
Tools                                          10                        10        50
Sub-total              8       48       113              15       176        41
Tapping
Marking trees                0.5      4                                   4         0
Equipment replacement 4/                       25                        25        40
Tapping 5/                  35      280                                 280         0
Sub-total             36      284        25                       309         3
Stimulation 6/
Scraping x 3                 2       16                                  16         0
Ethrel 2.5% 1 lb x 3                           33                        33        70
Tools                                           2                         2        50
Sub-total              2      (16)      (35)                      (51)      (47)
Average Annual Stimulation
Cost                                 11        25                        36        47
Collection 7/
Sub-total                                         0.8   24         24        70
Total Field Costs             46      343       163              39      545         21
1/ Tapping and stimulation labor costed at K 8/day.
2/  Petrolatum for wounds 1 lb/ac.
3/ 340 lb/ac of 15:7:18:2 domestically produced at cost of K 644/ton including K 150
subsidy.
4/  Twenty percent of initial tree equipment costs.
5/  Based on 210 tapping days/year, S/2 d/2 with 150 tappable trees/ac and 450 trees/task
i.e. 900 trees in two days or 6 ac per tapper.
6/  Stimulation to start from 9th year of tapping using 2.5%    Ethrel mixture in palm
oil: 1 lb applied three times per year in October, December and April (S/2 d/2 st3).
For costing purposes, the stimulation cost is averaged over all years to give an
annual cost equal to 70% of the total cost.
7/  Using tractor drawn latex tanks.  Three hours to collect 1,900 lb, equivalent to
about 0.8 hr/ac/year or K 24/ac/year.
July 6, 1978.



- 58 -                                TABLE 16
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Yield Projections
(Pounds Per Acre)
witn Project                                Without Project
Existing and  Existing and                   Existing and  Existing and
Year of             more than 10  less than 10  New              more than 10  less than 10  New
Tapping             years old in  years old in  Plantings   years old in  years old in  Plantings
1978           1978                          1978            1978
1                    100             150             300            75            125             250
2                    150             250             600           110            200             400
3                    250             350            900            150            275             600
4                    300             450          1,000            200            350             700
5                    350             550          1,100            250            450             800
6                    400             600          1,200            375            475             900
7                    400             600          1,250            375            475             990
8                    400             600          1,300            375            500          1,040
9                    500 1/          750 1/       1,400 1/         400            500          1,040
10                    500             750          1,400            400            500           1,040
11                    500             750          1,400            400            500          1,040
12                    500             750          1,400            400            500           1,040
13                    500             750          1,400            400            500           1,040
14                    500             750          1,400            400            500           1,040
15                    500             750          1,400            400            500           1,040
16                    450             700          1,300            375            475             990
17                    450             700          1,300            375            475             990
18                    450             700          1,300            375            475             990
19                    450             700          1,300            375            475             990
20                    425             650          1,250            350            440             950
21                    425             650          1,250            350            440             950
22                    425             650          1,25 0           350            440             950
23                    425             650          1,250             350           440             950
24                    410             600          1,200            325            410             900
25                    410             600          1,200            325            410             900
26                    410             600          1,200            325            410             90(
27                    410             600          1,200            325            410             900
28                    350             500          1,000             300           340             750
29                    350             500          1,000            300            340             750
30                    350             500          1,000            300            340             750
31                    350            500           1,000            300            340             750
32                    350             500          1,000            300            340             750
Average 32 years         398            573           1,170            325           417             877
Average 11-20 years   472               720           1,345            385           484           1,011
Average 21-30 years   397               585           1,155            325            398            870
Average 31+ years       350             500           1,000            300            340            750
1/ Stimulation applied from 9th year onwards.
)!  i.u'ation applied on all old rubber able to be tapped.
,July 7, 1978.



-59 -
TAIL! 17
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Proiect
Rebabilitation of processing Facilities:    nvestments
(Thousand Eyats)
Year 1           Year 2          Year 3           Local       Foreign                          Foreign        Ta-es
Unit Cost                                                          Cost        Cost          Total Cost        I -change       ('000 K)
Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost                                        No.   Cost            ',
iheetir,A Factories
iquipment:
Bulking/Receiving tank (1,000
gallon)                                     30.0          6      180       3       90                           66         204          9      270          '76
Coagulation tanks (10' x 3' x 1-1/2')   23.0                 42      966    42        966     29       667         546      2,053         113   2,599           79
Sheeting battery ''ith engine                 110.0           3      330      3       330      2      220         334         546           8      880          62
Baling press and box                           10.0           5       50       5       50      5        50          52          98         15      150          65
Trollevs and rails (smokehouse)                 10.0         18      180     10       100     12       120          90         320         40      400          80
Flat form. scales                                2.0         12       2b     10        20                           16          28         22       44          64
Solter scale.                                   0.5          18         9     14        7    22         11          10          17         54       27
Sub-total                                                      1,739           1,563            1,068       1,104       3,266                4.370          75            h95
ContIngenc let
Physical (10/)                                                  174              156              107         109         328                 437          75             87
Price                                                            201              299              287         197         590                 787          75            157
Total Etuipment                                                2,114           2,018             1,462       1,410      4,184                5,594           75        1,139
Civil X/orks:
Factors  extension                             60.0           5      300      5       300      5      300         630         270                  900          3f)           90
Cmokehouse                                     420         1O      420      10      420       5      210         840         210               1.050           20            63
Sub-total                                                        720              720              510      1,470          490               1,950          25            153
Cont ingey    es
"ivoical (10/)                                                    72               72               ;1         146          49                 19S          2;             Is
Price                                                            12)              215              223         '.21        141                 061          <5             45
Total Civil Works                                                915            1,007              784      2,037          669               2,70k
Creping Slillo
Esuipoenc:
Replacement rollers (l.ir)                     25.0          4       100      4       105                           74        1h I          8      20(1          hi            7:
Spare parts for cngine (set)                   50.0          1        50      1        511                         37          63           I      100          .3             I;
sub-tortl                                                        tsn              15                          III         189                 30n            I           1,15
'ent ingec ies
Phbsi,sl (t1  )                                                   IS               15                           1 1         19                   p)         h 3            11
Fr:co                                                              17              19                            7          29                  k6          ,3             Ih
Total Fi.ipeent                                                  182              17                           139         217                 176          h3            132
Crumb Rubber flant
Fnuipment:
Coagulation tanks                              in.0           6       60                                             H          ;2          h       61)         0!              7
Coagulu.m  trough (25m)                        25.0           1       25                                             3          27          I       2           h7              3
Macorator mafngl                               70.7)          1       70                                                                            70h                         1
Medium creping mangle                          7n0(1          1       70                                            24         4,           1       7,1         h              21
Rotary cutter and conveyor                    11.1           1      115 M                                           1          75          1      IIS          .5
Continuous box-type dryer lOt/day              300.1(         1       360                                          I'l'5       1Y.          I      3')S         ,,             q
Packaging ewuipment                            lIM1           I       IO                                             3           7          I       1:1                         I 5
r,eneracor 100/130 kh                          17; n.                             I  170I5 61                                  I            I      17'           ,             '
Fork lift truck                               13(01. 0                         I      11111                         Is         6I                  Io 11         ,             3,
Trubk (6 ton) *                               1589.                               I  19                            h6          '11          I      I;h -I                      ,
Water and electricit  connections              75.0                            1       77                           26          49          1       7,          . o7
Spares 307                                                           19)              152                         121         22',          1      3.7.
uh-total                                                        845             660                          518         087               1,17           1,,           746
Contingencies
Physival (10.,                                                    07               66                           -1         I)I                  I 11        '6             45
Price                                                             98              12h                           76         1.8                 22           ',,            .7
Total C -ipm-nt                                                1.,028             872 !                                   1 1                  t            '.1           56:1
foagulato-  shed                              39.11) o        1      19 S271                                                  117           1     3910         iJ             39
Po er house                                    65.'.          I       h;                                            4-          2            ) 4                 )              7
I.aborator,                                   250.0                           1        5()                         173          7',          1    27-10         31             25
Suh-cotal                                                        4S               250                          )93          1                  7f)5          30            71
Congintenc ies
Phymiral 1107)                                                    46               25                           7) 21                            11          M               I
Price                                                              78              75                          107          4h                  153          3f)           I-
1     - I  ,- kh                                                 779              350                         ,,so        _7'9                 9 1'          II           901
*/ Procurement reserved by GOB.
December 11, 1978



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Incremental Support Staff Costs-/
---- NUMBER WITH PROJECT -------------------
Salary      Present       Year 1            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4 +
Designation                       (kyats/    Number        Total Incre-    Total Incre-    Total Incre-    Total Incre-
month)                        mental            mental             mental            mental
General Manager                 1300-1300         0          1       1         1       1          1       1         1       1
Deputy General Manager           800-1200         1          3       2          3      2          3       2         3       2
Deputy Asst. General
Manager                        450- 700         5)         2      -3         2      -3         2      -3          2      -3
Senior Branch Officer            450- 700         0 )        5       5         5       5          5       5         5       5
Senior Auditor                   420- 540         1          1       0         1       0          1       0         1       0
Superintendent                   400- 520         1          1       0         1       0          1       0         1       0
Junior Branch Officer            320- 440         0          2       2         3       3          3       3         3       3
Branch Clerk                     300- 420         1          4       3         4        3         4       3         4       3
Stenographer                     210- 330         1          1       0         1       0          1       0         1       0
Upper Division Clerk             185- 305         4          5       1         5       1          5       1         5       1         1
Village Manager                  150- 220         1          0      -1         0      -1          0     -1          0      -1         O
Lower Division Clerk             150- 200)        2)         5       3          7      5          7       5         7       5
Typist/Clerk                     130- 200 )       0 )
Driver                           110- 125         1          2       1         2       1          2       1         2       1
Peon                             100- 110         3          3       0         3       0          3       0         3       °
Sub-total - Officers                              6         11       5        11       5        11        5        11       5
- Other Ranks                         15         24       9        27      12        27      12         27      12
Annual Salary Costs 2/ (K'000)                  106        277               288               288                288
Incremental (K'000)                               -        171               182               182                182
1/ Excludes estates staff.
2/ Based on mid-point of monthly salary plus 20% for salary overheads plus K 70,000/year for officers' travel costs.
Without Project costs remain constant at K 106,000 per year.
July 18, 1978.
OD



TABLE 19
- 61 -
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Staff Development and Research
---------- WITH PROJECT -----------
Position                                 Salary         Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
(kyats/months)   Total        Total       Total      Total
HEAD OFFICE (RANGOON)
Section 0: General Managers
Office
General Mianager (GM)                 1300-1300           1           1          1          1
Asst. to General Mfanager (DAGM)    450- 700              1           1          1           1
Monitoring Officer (SBO)                450- 700          1           1          1          1
Field Monitor (JBO)                     320- 440          0          1           1          1
Stenographer                           210- 330           1          1           1          1
Radio-Telephone Operator (UDC)          185- 305          1           1          1          1
Car Drivers                             110- 125          2          2           2          2
Peon                                    100- 110          1          1           1          1
Section 1: Accounts and
Administration
fleputy General Manager (DGM)
Accounts                             800-1200           1          1           1          1
Financial Controller (DAGM)             450- 700          1          1           1          1
Senior Accountant (SPT)                400- 520           1          1           1          1
Accountant (BC)                         300- 420          3           3          3          3
Account Clerk (UDC)                     185- 305          4          4           4          4
Senior Auditor                         420- 540           1          1           1          1
Administrative Officer (JBO)            320- 440          1          1           1          1
Typist                                  130- 200          2          3           3          3
Peon                                    100- 110          1          1           1          1
Section 2: Procurement, Input
Supply, Processing
and Marketing
Deputy General Manager (DGM)            800-1200          1          1           1          1
Input Procurement Officer (SBO)    450- 700               1          1          1           1
Rubber Processing Officer (SBO)    450- 700               1          1           1          1
Processing Assistant (JBO)              320- 440          1          1           1          1
Clerk/Typist                            130- 200          2          3           3          3
Peon                                    100- 110          1          1          1           1
Section 3: Estates and Research
De,uty General 1etdIager (UbM)
(Estates and Fesearch)               800-1200          1           1          1          1
Clerk/Typist                            130- 200          1          1          1           1
AgronoTist (SR1O) 1/                   450- 700           1          1          1           1
Agricultural Economist (SBO) 1/    450- 700               1          1          1           1
Records Clerk (BC) 1/                   300- 420          1          1          1           1
1/ Although included with iiead Office Staff, these research staff will be located at
Tavoy. Research to be carried out on Government estates and private smallholdings.
,July 18, 1978.



- 62 -
TABLE 20
LURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Investments for Head Office Support, Training and Research
Years 1-4             Foreign
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange   Taxes
Cost    Cost        Cost         %        (K '000)
Equipment
2 4WD short wheel base
vehicles 1/ *                         140                                       60        80       140        57          52
4 4W0 long wheel base
vehicles 2/ *                         352                                      152       200       352       57          130
(ffice equioment 3/                      50                                        5        45         50       90            3
Training aids 4/                         15                                        1        14         15       90           1
Soil suive) equipment 5/                 30                                        3        27         30       90           2
Laboratory equipment 6/                  30                                        3        27         30       90           2
Radio telephone  7/                     180                                       18       162       180        90          12
Sub-total (Base Cost)             797                                      242       555        797       70         202
Contingencies
Physical 5%                        40                                       12         28        40       70
Price                               88                                      26         62        88       70
TOTAL EQUIPHINT COST                      925                                      280        645       925       70         234
Civil Works
Trainee accommodation 8/                300       300                            480       120       600        20          42
Instructors' accommodation 9/            50        50                             80        20       100        20           7
Messing facilities and
amenties                               25        25                             40        10        50        20           4
Research officers accommodation 10/  79            79                            126        32       158        20          11
Sub-total (Base Cost)             454        454                           726       182        908       20           64
Contingencies
Physical 10%                        45        45                             72        18        90       20
Price                               77       135                           170         42       212       20
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS COST                    576        634                           968       242    1,210         20           85
TOTAL INVESIMENT
Base Cost                       1,251        454                           968        737    1,705        43         266
Physical Contingencies              85        45                             84        46       130       35
Price Contingencies                165       135                           196        104       300       35
TOTAL COST                              1,501        634                         1,248        887    2,135        42          319
1/  Two 4WD vehicles for consultants.
2!  One 4WT long wheel base vehicle stationed at Tavoy and Mergui, and two 4WD long wheel base vehicles in Rangoon.
3/ Including calculators and typewriters for Head Office and estates.
4/i Including projectors, screen and taperecorders.
5/ Including 3" soil aiugers, soil color charts, measuring tapes, infiltrometers, particle size screens, and balances.
6/  Supplementing existing equipment and supplies for laborabory at Thanbyuzayat.   Includes library and journal sub-
scriptions.
7/  Twin channel, 150 watt, single side-band.  High frequency transceivers; set of five to be located at PCD offices
in Rangoon, Moulmein. Thanbvuzayat,Tavoy and Mergui or as appropriate.
8/ Barracks for trainees - 4 buildings at K 75,000 each.
9/ Accommodate 5 instructors.
I0/ Two houses @ K 79,000 located in Tavoy.
*/ Procurement reserved by GOB.
July 19, 1978.



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Staff Training Costs
Foreign
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Year 5t
In-Service
Basic Estate Management -          20          0         0         0         20                   20         0            0
Refresher Training 2/               0         11        11        11         33                    33        0           33
Budding Training 3/                16        16          0         0         32                   32         0            0
Sub-total                     36        27        11        11         85                    85        0           33
Overseas
Study Tours 4/                     72         72        72        72                   288       288       100            0
Specific Courses 5/                84       133        133       133                   483       483       100            0
Sub-total                   156        205       205       205                   771        771      100            0
TOTAL TRAINING COSTS (Base)         192        232       216       216         85        771        856       90           33
Contingencies
Physical
Price                        20         40        53        69         19        163        182       90
TOTAL COST                        212        272       269       285        104        934     1.038        90
1/  For estate managers and assistant estate managers.  45 participants, 20 day course at Thanbyuzayat estate.
Nine participants per course.  Costs:  Participant allowance K 6/head/day plus K 100 for transport.  Instructors
travel K 400 and allowance at K 10/day - two full-time instructors per course.  Training materials and transport
during course K 200/participant.
2/  Three participants per estate, 45 per year.  Five days training, three courses per year.  Costs:  as above but
training matetials K 100.
3/  Budders training.  Ten trainees per estate, total 150.  25 trainees per course.  Three courses per year, 5 days
per course.  Costs:  Participants allowance of K 6/head/day plus K 100 for transport.  Instructors, five per
course, allowances K 10/day plus K 200 for travel. Budding equipment and materials K 40/trainee.
4/  Study tours.  Four trainees per year.  Tours of three months duration.  Suggested intinerary - 9 weeks at RRIM
for short courses with visits to Commercial estates, 2 weeks at Government estates in Sumatra, Indonesia with
study at BPBM, 3 days at Hat Yai Rubber Research Center, Thailand.
5/  An allocation of 138 man-months.  Possible courses include:  two 12 month research fellowshiDs at University of
Malaysia with laboratory work at RRIM; two 9 month courses on crumb rubber processing at RRIM; two 4 year degree
courses in rubber technology at Manchester University or London National College of Rubber Technology.
July 18, 1978.



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Technical Assistance Costs
(Thousand Kyats)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           l'otal          %
Man-            Man-             Man-            Man-             Man--            Foreign
months  Cost   months  Cost   months  Cost   months  Cost   mont:hs  Cost   Exchange
Project Coordinator and
Estate Advisor                  9       459      8       408     8       408      5       255      30    1,530    90
Adaptive Research and
MIonitoring Advisor             7       357      8       408     3       153      2       102      20    1,020    90
Training Consultant               4       204      2       102                                        6       306    90
Consultant Pathologist            4.5    229       1        51     -                0.5      26       6       306    90
Land Use Consultant               2       102      1        51     -                                  3       1'53    90
Clone Identifier                  1        51      -                                                  1        51    90
Processing Consultant             2       102      2      102      -                -                 4       204    90
Project Preparation                                -                3      153      3       153       6       306    90
Base Cost                     29.5  1,504    22    1,122    14          714    10.5    536        76    3,876    90
Contingencies
Physical
Price                                158             195              174             171               698    90
TOTAL COST                              1,662           1,317              888              707             4,574    90
July 18, 1978.                                                                                                                   H
tTj



- 65 -
TABLE 23
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Project Cost Summary
(Thousand Kyats)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4             Years 1-4               b of       %        Duties
Local   Foreign   Total       Total   Foreign    and
Cost    Cost       Cost       Cost    Exchange   Taxes
Estate Rehabilitation
-       Equipment                              3,683    2,425       773                 3,293    3,588    6,881       11.0       52       2,629
Civil works                  1i        1,900    1,900    2,380                 5,309       871    6,180        9.9       14         205
Incremental development costs          5,720    5.tl2    4,181    4,530        10,996    8,547   19,543       31.1       44          -
Sub-total (Base Cost)               11,303    9,437    7,334    4,530       19,598   13,006   32,604       52.0        40      2,834
Rehabilitation of ProcessinR
Facilities
Sheeting Factories
Equipment                              1,739    1,563    1,068                 1,104    3,266    4,370         7.0       75         895
Civil works                              720       720      510                1,470       480    1,950       3.1        25         153
Sub-total                            2,459    2,283    1,578                 2,574    3,746    6,320       10.1        59      1,048
Creping Mills and Crumb Rubber
Plant
Equipment                                995       810                           629    1,176    1,805        2.9        65         553
Civil works                              455       250                           493       212       705      1.1        30          71
Sub-total                            1,450    1,060                          1,122    1,388    2,510        4.0        55        624
Working Capital 2!                          114         2        10        5          86       45       131      0.2        34          -
Sub-total (Base Cost)                4,023    3,345    1,588          5      3,782    5,179    8,961       14.3        58      1,672
Staff Development and Research
Equipment                                797                                     242       555      797       1.3        70        202
Civil works                              454      454                            726       182       908      1.4        20          64
Training                                 192       232      216       216         85       771       856      1.4        90          -
Technical assistance                   1L504    1,122       714       536        388    3.488    3.876        6.2        90         -
Sub-total (Base Cost)                2,947    1,808       930      752       1,441    4,996    6,437       10.3        78        266
Total Project Costs
Base                                  18 273   14.590    9,852    5,287       24,821   23,181   48,002       76,5        48      4,772
Physical Contingencies (9.09)          1,567    1,286    1.011       453       2.548    1,769    4,317        6.9       41         296
Sub-total                           19,840   15,876   10,863    5,740       27,369   24,950   52,319       83.4       48       5,068
Price Contingencies ~20.6%)            2,283    3,125    3.158    1,832        5,842    4,556   10,398       16.6       44       1,016
Total Expected Cost of Project           22,123   19,001   14,021    7,572       33,211   29,506   62,717    100.0          47      6,084
1/  These capital costs comprise incremental estate operating costs for first two years of the pn,ject and the incremental
replanting costs and incremental maintenance costs for immature olantings
2/  Working capital estimated as 17% (equivalent to two months) of the annual incremental processing and marketing costs.
September 25, 1978



- 66 -                               TABLE 24
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Credit Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year                         Disbursement                  Disbursement
Fiscal Year 1979
July - December
January - June
Fiscal Year 1980
July - December                          0.2                            0.2
January - June                           0.7                            0.9
Fiscal Year 1981
July - jDecember                         1.0                            1.9
January - June                           0.6                            2.5
Fiscal Year 1982
July - December                          0.8                            3.3
January - June                           0.3                            3.6
Fiscal Year 1983
July - December                          0.4                            4.0
January - June                           0.1                            4.1
Fiscal Year 1984
July - December                          0.4                            4.5
January   June                             -                            4.5
December 8, 1978



- 67 -
TABLE 25
BURMA
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparison of Selected Clones
1J                RRC        I/   RRIM Yield 2/
Clone                Mudon Trial Ranking -             Classification -        Average  -
Girth In-   Leaf   Leaf            3   1 - 5    6 - 10
Yield   Girth    crement    Fall   Fall   General-'  Years    Years
PB 86                     1        4          1        1       2         -         886    1,407
GT 1                      3        3          2        3       2         1       1,206    1,674
RRIM 600                  1        4          3        3       3         2       1,386    1,826
PB 5/51                   3        2          2        1       4         2       1,227    1,608
PR 107                    3        2          3        3       4         2         970    1,519
l/  Class 1 is most desirable, class 3 average, and class 4 least desirable.
2/ 16/ac/year on commercial plantings recorded by the Rubber Research Institute
of Malaysia.
3/  Planting recommendations of the Rubber Research Centre, Thailand, 1976.
Class 1 in the table represents RRC class IA: clones suitable for large
scale planting throughout rubber growing areas in Thailand. Class 2 is
particularly favourable to Phytophthora.



Rubber Rehabili satine Projec
Tapped Otto (unreal  an  Produc tion  (lon  tos       f Rubber on Go-rra-nEtae   (RILE  Project)
Yearfl  Sear].   Year2             dean)            ~~~~~~     ~     ~~~ ~ ~~Year 4  bea   S .            I, IearYOror      Sea.R.ear                           Sear-             Ror  11           Year12           Year  13          Yrar14           S-anS
1978/79          1979/SR           IRORI             18/8  2 .'           . 1 82/R      199/.              .R/RY            19R./.            1986/R7          1987/RR           1988/89           1989/90           199R/91          1991/92           1992/93193R
TAPPER AREAS
Gnnrn-rt Estaes.       i  Projec                                    7 /    1/           1/             -  /1                                  /21%/i                                                                 7Y1                                 )I                              ,R                   R/            5
Rubben Aged 8 Sears                                    0              2 92      -       2 76     --         0              178               2 34              30(1     -        180               3 209R                    900       900              9RR       94      9R0   0          9RR       91.     900        90     90
9                                                                                                                 314               448               bAR                                                IROR         a-~~~~~~-  9                      9,R   .  .R  R  ,RR b    RO         1RIO
9                   ~~~~~3R   7 50              243               584              3 52                0                 64860                                                60a             RIO                               120150    0                         ,00       JX     100          0     ,0
10                                  1, 077            2, 500              304     -          30     -;        690                 7              4458R                               7 50             450AI    j~RO               ,T    1,RRR      IC,;  1,2RR   bAR    1,SRR         'a7   1,RRR        100  1.888
11-20      '0 EQO                        , 832            7,402            9 ,142            9,549             845               8 ,2 72     :    7,445             7 ,14 5           7,014       jt~ 2,064        jjj   6,8R8        it    6,927      Do     7,234   ER       7,711      DC     8,440        0    ,9
21-30  '                ~~~      ~~~~~92  984    1,489       2- ,043                 2 ,709           3 ,2577           3 ,724            4,1389      -    4,432              4,667        95 4,868         95   5,R52        )d     ,19        9      ,332    95   5,496          91   5,631         )5  5,985
31 +p                                   3 .524     -.     4,160            3.863             5,21              3101              2.897            2.718       --    2,561         . 2,4 19         -.  2,747        ad   2,605        4j 2,474          /26  2.321       DO  2.239         AT   2,135         6R  2.043
Total  Tapped Art                                12,167           14,094            14 ,2 32          14,041            1564             15,487            15,517            13,503            15,532            14,929            17.145            17,495            19,512          18,936             19,146           19,444
Rab.er1edI Rer                              b          R       30       It      30       15      32       03    o                               I 0    50       30      30         3       bE        3        50)      a     50          R       52        I     35          0     50         R      50,        8        50R
9                    8~ ~ ~~~~         ~~20  (49  50  15b  5o      25      50        25      5                            0      47         0     00        50       50        0        73       0     70          2      7~         0      73         0     7)         R      YE                  7)
10                          ho        681        90 1,145         dO      235      95        4  as             4                  0      8;~        0     85         0       85       85        gd       0     90          R       02        R      02         0     0'                 9R        R        90 
11-12                           90      2,5R6       95  3 ,999        95  4,878        9     -6475      0~~4    2 55      0I,,   3 ,8 77     9;  3,489        95    3,141        95  2 ,826        1372 2,738    100    2,100        St-1   2,25R    13:    2,R25    1?)1   1,822         bAR   1,640         123O 1,476
21 -30                          a0        206        92     459       tO      791      8'    2,005      )d    I Sbb       05    1,233        a)   1,945       9)    2,0R1        90   2,171         95 2,343       95    2,374         95  2,374        00    2,3958     95   2,388         91  2,5            95 2,181
31 4                             S      2 ,05 5      30  2,043             2.078       50  _2,105        (0  _2,144        30    2,194       3,  _2.252       3d    2 .31 7      90   2.38( 7       72  1.639      201.49              2    179        2 1.6913178       2     188         A       .88         dO1,341
Total  Tapped Are                                 571               7.R9 R14    8.0                       2742               2             7247.716                            7.589             7,469            6.762             6.363             6.363             6.164            5.968             5.778             5.591
'   ...To    'E...TalI  apped Arr.                  17.884           2 3 ,9 17         24.2714           04,084         _23,586             23.309_           2.3               2,9               23.001            23.591            23.728            24,858            24.681           24,804            24.924            25.035
PRODUCTION
P-tbtt Are  Es-tes  2/                                   2.206            2,971             3 ,19 7           3,257            3,292             3 ,3 71           3 ,385            3,457             3,570             3 ,98 2          4,349             4,931              5,069           8,427              5, 737            6,898
Other Gnnet-et   Etsts.e  3/                             IR2 2            1,477             1.624             145,672                             1,694            1,8_16a1.664                                          1.590             1.575             1,543             1.526            1,506             1.483             1.478
Teta1 Robber Pr-d-tiet                            3.728             4,452            4.821             4.922             4,964             5,365             5,070            5,131             5,234             5.5 772           5,924             6,174             6,595            6,933             7,220             7,976
I/   Refers.t  per-esg   of tota   rubber area  tapped.
2/   Predartl-  based  as WIth Proj-en   yiled   as sheen  i  Table  16.
' Pred_rejo   basd nfl WEthoat Ptn(et   telds as  ben   In Table  16.
Jloi 18, 1978.



Rubber Rtebbiltra.rtin Projec
rapped Are  (Acres) and Producion  (tong ton) of Rubber on Gon---  Estates  (WicA  Pro -er)
Yoar lb         Ycar 17          Year 28          Year 29          Year 20          Yoor 21         Year 22          Yea  23          Year 24          Year 25          Year 26          Year 27          Year 28         Year 29          Year 30
ornetE-eae-  in Projec   Area                       -  11/t/                                                           I/               1  /71                              1                 I1 t/I/, I/                                                                     7 1/             71
Are of Ro,bber Tapped Aged
neas                                            A      900       9),    9ff    dO        900      g0      900      A,      90Y0     2       900     Y½      900       A      900      ½       9RR     9½       9R0       91     9RR       90     900       92     9R0    90       9RR      9       9R
9I                                              JAD   AROR0            10,R             IRRO A0   I      1,ORR            10,RR     Or.   1,ORO      1),1  1,RRO     1)    1,000    13j-  2,000    IDA   tROR           1301  ROR    1DAY   1,090    bRO   ORRA   iCon   1,RRR    ld IR
If                                                -     tOUR      -       ,000   1I CRA            - ,   iRR        AI    1,00o    i    tROt          1 Aol   2,900    1:1.   1,RRR     2½,  lORO        133 lOR ID 1,090l~100    130   t,ROR               100)  2,RRR    ROD,  1,ROR       AD      ,0
11-28 9,7 36                                                                8 ,863          8 ,9 76          9,079    ±       9,17R      A'.   9.254     0±2   9.,3 27    1<1   9,396      ADD   9,456    A1A   9,51R    1TD   9,568    ADD   9,6R3            132   9,643   100   9,0           3      ,1
21-310    '95   6,032                                                       6,348     A     6,55             6,0153           6,940       AD 7,007         9.,  0,28       9;   0442         05   7,390      05   7,739        95   7,869       96   7,982       95   8,096    95   833          9     8,R
31                                                    tO    .966        -1 92               11854       I-1.2                 1.795       0    1 6784     nI 1,783         A     I 1.093    tI 1,813         cl 1.842         nO   1.889       60    1,92 7      60   1.981    62   202          6     2.I
Total Area Yapped                                         19,01.           20,014          20,205           20,550           20,805           21t055           21,295           21,531           21,759           21,982           22,2RR           22,412           22,620          22042,2
deter Gone- -t  Estate
Area of Robber Tgppod Aged
8  ors0                                                    0      Y         0      -         0     0         0        -       0      n         0                0                0      0         0       0        9                0      1         0      0         0      8        0       0'
9I                                                         0      T         0                a     0         0        2       0      0         0       0        0       -        0      0         0       0        0      0         0      0         0      2                0        0       00
10    .                                                     0      2         0                0      2         0       A        0     T         0        g       0                0      0         0       0        0      0         0      0          0      20               3       0        0R
11-2 0                                               ½     1,329    21      1,196     V      1,076   iDA        968    iTO       902   1          784     .9;     706      IC      635   1oo        502    1OR       315   O,n        463   123        417   130         37    100)    33         D9
21-30                                               1 YD   2,214            2,125    130     I 2,30   102    1,930      bOY   1,84M      D     1,0743    1ITO   1,4 7      !Y    1,55,3   1       146        100   1,37,2  1ADD~   1,28~7   1201   1,284    150    1,126   10   1,5               0        7
31.,  ,,                            IC       99~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~0 2 1012  1,3    1.054  U    1.073    106 101 0 119      00 125          A     1.41       10 116          1       .19       0         8      10    194        I0   1.295       AR   1.26
Aae1 Are  Tapped                                     ,,,,5 320             4.,3 33          4.141            3.959            3.785            3,619            3.462            3.313            3.174            3.043            2.919            2.803            2.695           2.9               .9
loca  tubber Tapped - All AGoe---e  Estate                      24.,2 66         24 ,34 7        24,406           24,509           24.590           24.673           24,757           24,944           24.933           05,025           29.119           25.215            2,5315         29482.2
PRODITTION
P-gj-c  Area Estates                                             6,452            6,829            7,02 21          0,636           R,0970            9,55 7          8 ,7 77          9.011            9,254            9,535             9,8907         19,994            19,398         10791,6
Oth-e Ganr-uent Etet-e                                            1.094           12.23            1,~229           1.196            2,115            1.141            1.193           1.067            1.036             1.921              994              970              930             92                8
lo-g  Rubber Peod-eso                                            7, 746          9.092            8,450            8,833_           9 ,2072          9.698            9,880           10,008           10,290           19.556           19,891           11.064           11.335          11661.6
10  Refers  so pe-enrge  a   -tta  robber are tpped.
Dab~ 10, 2908'a



- 70 -                             TABLE  27
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Total Rubber Procurement by Grades 1976/77
(Long tons)
Procurement Average
Procurement (1976/77)                     1973/74-1975/76
Grades                Project Area       Other Centers        Total                 Total
Tons      %       Tons      %         Tons    %           Tons       %
RSS1                  1,291    15.0        319   41.8       1,610  17.2         2,192.3   32.0
RSS2                     736     8.6       105   13.7          841   9.0          589.2    8.6
RSS3                  1,375    16.0         86   11.3       1,461  15.6         1,240.0   18.1
RSS4                  1,438    16.7         28    3.7       1,466  15.7         1,109.9   16.2
RSS5                  1,241    14.4         94   12.3       1,335  14.3           849.5   12.4
Cuttings                155      1.8        20    2.6          175   1.9           34.3    0.5
Block                    624     7.3        21    2.7         645   6.9            34.3    0.5
Froth                   115      1.3         5    0.7         120   1.3           185.0    2.7
Others Unsmoked          825     9.6         5    0.7          830   8.9           54.8    0.8
Sub-total
Latex Grades        7,800    90.8        683   89.4       8,483  90.7         6,289.3   91.8
Tree Lace               438      5.1        50    6.5         488   5.2            n.a.    n.a.
Cup Lumps                352     4.1        31    4.1          383   4.1           n.a.    n.a.
Sub-total
Scrap Grades          790      9.2        81   10.6         871   9.3           561.7    8.2
Total                 8,590   100.0        764  100.0       9,354 100.0         6,851.0  100.0
June 28, 1978.



- 71 -                                 TABLE 28
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Distribution of Rubber Output by Grades 1976/77
(Long tons)
Local. Consumption        Exports       Sub-total        Sub-total
Grades                 Government   Private                                      as X of
Sector       Sector                                      Procurement 1/
RSS1                      32.2                     2,324.5        2,356.7            146
RSS2                     100.0                       601.0          701.0             83
RSS3                      62.7                     1,662.3        1,725.0            118
RSS4                     248.6                     1,796.1        2,044.7            139
RSS5                     347.8         1.1         1,258.9        1,607.8            120
Cuttings                  64.3        62.0                          126.3              72
Block 2/                 152.1        28.8                          180.9              28
Froth                     17.9        26.1                           44.0              37
Others Unsmoked 3/        70.7         -                             70.7               9
2 x Brown Crepe           25.0                       498.7          523.7 )            74 4/
3 x Brown Crepe           -           55.6            -              55.6 )
Crumb Rubber                                          32.1           32.1            n.a.
Unprocessed Scrap                                    332.3          332.3            n.a.
Total                  1,121.3       173.6         8,505.9        9,800.8            106 4/
Percent Utilization       11.4         1.8            86.8          100.0
l/  Part of this discrepancy is due to changes in stocks.
2/  Refers to sheets which do not meet RSS5 standard and not to crumb rubber.
31 Includes latex.
4/ The scrap procured was reduced by 10% to give estimated crepe equivalent ie a milling
yield of 90% by weight has been assumed.
June 28, 1978.



- 72 -
TABLE 29
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Projected Export and Domestic Prices
Basic Price: RSSI - US$0.46 per pound Cif New York (in constant 1978 US dollars)
or US$1,030.40 per ton                                                     A
less insurance 2% -                    20.60
less sea freight                       81.00
Balance FOB Rangoon                928.80
say US$929/ton
At exchange rate K 7.2/US$          6,689 Kyats/ton
Export Prices 1/                            2/
Grades                         K/ton    % of Output          Domestic Prices 2
Without  With            K/ton
Crumb 5/5L                     6,689      0.0    16.96            6,048
10                        6,488      1.7      3.18           5,867
50                        6,355      4.1      1.06           5,746
RSS1                           6,689    53.0    64                6,048
2                           6,555    18.0       5              5,936
3                           6,355      9.0      3              5,824
4                           6,020      4.0      0              5,488
Brown Crepe 2x                 5,017      3.1      4.76           4,536
3x                4,682      7.1      2.04           4,234
Average Prices:
Without Project 3/        6,397                              5,794
With Project 4/           6,542                              5,918
1/ Price relationships between crumb and RSS1 are based on Malaysian data. Brown
crepe price relationship with RSSI based on historical relationship in Burmese
exports.
2/ Based on 35% mark-up on procurement prices.
3/ Output assumed: RSSl - 53%, RSS2 - 18%, RSS3 - 9%, RSS4 - 4%. Crumb total 5.8%
of which 5L - 0%, 10 - 30%, 50 - 70%. Brown crepe total 10.2% of which 2x - 30%,
3x - 70%.
4/ Output assumed: RSSL - 64%, RSS2 - 5%, RSS3 - 3%, RSS4 - 0%. Crumb total 21.2%
of which 5L - 80%, 10 - 15% and 50- 5%. Brown crepe total 6.8% of which 2x - 70%,
3x - 30%.
July 20, 1978.



- 73 -                                               TABLE 30
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Project Financial Cost Summary
(Thousand Kyats)
% of
Years 1-4           Total    Foreign   Duties
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Local  Foreign  Total  Project  Exchange  and
Cost   Cost       Cost   Cost            %      Taxes_
Equipment I /
- Bl.ae Cost                    3,683   2,425        773             3,293    3,588   6,881                   52       2,629
I'hysical Contingency         368       243       77               330       358      688                52
I'ric, Contingency            4?5       164      207               526      570   1,096                  52
ltral Cost                      4,476    3,132    1,057              4,149    4,516    8,665    11.9          52       3,324
civil Corks 2/
- Lase Cost                      1,900   1,900    2,386)              5,309      871   6,180                  14          205
I'hysical Contingency          285      285      357               797       130      927                14
1'rice Contingency            339       592   1,089              1,737      283   2,020                  14
Total Cost                       2,524    2,777    3,126              7,843   1,284    9,127    12.6          14          303
Incremental Estate Operating
Costs 3/
- 8ase Cost                      5,720   5,112    6,655   6,624  11,835  12,276  24,111                       51
Paysical Contingency,
5T                          286      256       333      331      591      615   1,206                  51
Price Contiiqency             631       934   1,705   2,219   2,690   2,799   5,489                      51
Total Cost                       6,637    6,302    8,693   9,174  15,116  15,690  30,806   42.4               51
Rehabilitation of Processing
Facilities
Sheeting Factories 4/
Equipment
- Base Cost                 1,739    1,563   1,068               1,104    3,266   4,370                  75          695
I'hysical
Contingency               174      156      107                109      328      437                 75
Price Contingency          201      299      287                197      590      787                 75
Total Cost                       2,114   2,018   1,462               1,410   4,184    5,594    7.7            75       1,139
Civil Works
- Base Cost                    720      720      510             1,470      480   1,950                  23          153
Physical
Contingency                72       72       51                146       49      195                25
Price Contingency          123      215      223                421      140      561                25
Total Cost                         915   1,007       784             2,037       669   2,706      3.7        25          214
IperaLi,..ns  51
, repinF Mills and Crumb
Rubber Plant 4/
Equipnent
- Base Cost                   995       810                        629   1,176   1,805                   65         553
Physical
Contingency               100       S1                          62      119      181                65
Price Contingency          115      155                          93      177      270                65
Total Cost                       1,210    1,046                         784   1,472   2,256       3.1        65          692
Civil Works
- Base Cost                   455       250                        493      212      705                 30          71
Physical
Contingency                46       25                         50        21       71                30
Price Contingency           78       75                         107       46      153                30
Total Cost                         579      350                         650      279      929     1.3        30           93
Incremental Processing
Costs 6/
- Base Cost                   298       290      298      295      808      373   1,181                  32
Physical Contingency,
5Z                        15       15       15       15       41       19       60                 32
Price Contingency           33       53       76       99      177        84      261                32
Total Cost                         346      358      389      409   1,026        476   1,502      2.1        32
Incremental Marketing Costs 7/
- Base Cost                   279      262       270      264      677      398   1,075                 37           54
Physical Contingency,
5Z                        14       13       14       13       34       20       54                 37
Price Contingency           31       48       69       88      149        87      236                37
Total Cost                         324      323      353      365      860       505   1,365      1.9        37           b9
July 21, 1978.



- 74 -                                               TABLE 30
Page 2 of 2
B UTNA
Rubber Itehabilitation Project
Project Financial Cost Summary
(Thousand Kyats)
1 of
Years 1-4           Total      Foreign   Duties
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Local  Foreign  Total  Project  Exchange  and
Cost   Cost       Cost   Cost            %      Taxes
Head Office Support
Technical Assistance 8/
- Base Cost                     1,504   1,122        714      536      388   3,488   3,876                   90
Physical Contingency
Price Contingency             158      195      174      171        70      628      698                90
Total Cost                      1,662   1,317        888      707      458   4,116   4,574    6.3            90
Training 9/
- Base Cost                        192      232      216      216       85       771      856
Physical Contingency
Price Contingency              20       40       53        69       19      163      182
Total Cost                         212      272      269      285      104      934   1,038    1.4
lncremental Salary Cost 10/
- Base Cost                        171      182      182      182      717                717
Physical Contingency
Price Contingency              27       32       44        58     161                161
Total Cost                         198      214      226      240      878               878    1.2
Equipment 11/
- Base Cost                        797                                 242      555       797                70         202
Physical Contingency           40                                   12       28       40                 70
Price Ccntingency              88                                   26       62       88                70
Total Cost                         925                                 280      645      925    1.3          70         234
Civil Works 12/
- Base Cost                        454      454                        726      182       908                20           64
Physical Contingency           45       45                          72       18       90                20
Price Contingency              77      135                         170       42      212                20
Total Costs                        576      634                        968      242   1,210      1.7         20           85
Tncremental Operating Costs 13/
- Base Cost                        114      230      230      230      293      511       804                64
Physical Contingency            6       12        12       12       15       27       42                64
Price Contingency              13       42        59       77       70      121      191                64
Total Cost                         133      284      301      319      378      659   1,037    1.4           64
Total Cos
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
- BASE                            19,021  15,552  13,296   8,347  28,069  28,147  56,216                       50       4,826
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES
(7.1%)                       1,451   1,203       966       371   2 259   1, 732   3,991                  43
Sub-total                         20,472  16,755  14,262   8,718  30,328  29,879  60,207                       50
PRICE CONTINGENCIES
(20.6%)                      2,359   3,279   3,986   2,781   6,613   5,792  12,405                       47
TOTAL EXPECTED COST OF PROJECT  22,831  20,034  18,248  11,499  36,941  35,671  72,612                           49        6,153
I/  Table 1.
2/  Table 2.
3/ From Tables 4 & 5, Annex 6 (Project File)
4/ Table 17.
5/ Included in Incremental Estate Operating Costs.
6/  From Table 18. Includes both crumb and crepe processing costs.
7/  Calculated from incremental production (Annex 7, Tables 2 and 4 (Project File) and marketing cost (Annex 2,
Table 9 Project File).
8/  Table 22.
9/  Table 21.
10/  Table 18.
11/  Table 20.
12/  Table 20.
13/  Annex 8, Table 6 (Project File).
July 21, 1978.



- 75 -                                TABLE 31
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Export and Domestic Sales Revenue -/
(Thousand Kyats)
Without Project2/                       With Project-/
Project           Domestic      Export    Total         Domestic      Export      Total
Year              Sales         Sales      Revenlue     Sales         Sales       Revenue
1                 7,648      12,007      19,655         7,812      20,490       28,302
2                 8,413      13,990      22,403         8,593      22,040       30,633
3                 9,254      13,485      22,739         9,452     21,752        31,204
4                10,180      12,916      23,096        10,397      20,980       31,377
5                11,198      12,263      23,461        11,437      20,490       31,927
6                12,317      10,785      23,102        12,581      19,260       31,841
7                13,549       9,615      23,164        13,839      18,272       32,111
8                14,904       8,380      23,284        15,223      17,415       32,638
9                16,394       6,525      22,919        16,745      17,638       34,383
10                18,034       5,361      23,395        18,420      18,396       36,816
11                  "          5,214      23,248          "         20,032       38,452
12                             5,463      23,497          "         22,786       41,206
13                             5,508      23,542          "         24,997       43,417
14                             5,348      23,382                    26,875       45,295
15                             5,489      23,523          "         29,203       47,623
16                  "          4,344      22,378          "         30,316       48,736
17                  "          4,011      22,045          "         32,579       50,999
18                  "          3,672      21,706          "         34,921       53,341
19                  "          3,416      21,450          "         37,420       55,840
20                  "          3,397      21,431          "         40,299       58,719
21                  "          3,243      21,277          "         43,086       61,506
22                             2,687      20,721                    44,276       62,696
23                  "          2,194      20,228          "         45,572       63,992
24                  "          1,682      19,716          "         46,958       65,378
25                             1,580      19,614          "         48,699       67,119
26                             1,260      19,294          "         50,301       68,721
27                             1,043      19,077          "         52,022       70,442
28                               729      18,763                    53,795       72,215
29                               352      18,386          "         55,829       74,249
30                18,034         333      18,367        18,420      57,936       76,356
1/ Revenue is derived using average prices as shown in Table 29,
2/ Without Project and With Project domestic sales are projected to expand at
10% per annum (from a base of 1,200 tons) for the first 10 years and thereafter
remain constant (part of this expansion will supply the proposed tire factory).
July 20, 1978.



- 76 -
TABLE 32
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Financial Rate of Return to Investment
(Million Kyat)
Incre-       Incre-
Sales 1/  Sales                  Total 4/  mental         mental
1'roject           Revenue   Revenue   Incre-    Project   Estate  5/  Processing             Incremental   Net
Year                Without   With 2/   mental 3/ Financial Operating   & Marketing   Blead Office   Benefit
Project   Project   Revenue   Costs         Costs         Costs  6/      Costs  7/       __
1                 19.7        28.3       8.6        20.5         0              0               0          (11.9)
2                 22.4        30.6       8.2        16.8         0              0               0           (8.6)
3                 22.7        31.2       8.5        14.3         0              0               0           (5.8)
4                 23.1        31.4       8.3         8.7         0              0               0           (0.4)
5                 23.5        31.9       8.4                     6.3            0.6             0.4          1.1
6                 23.1        31.8       8.7                     6.5            0.6             0.4          1.2
7                 23.1        32.1       9.0                     6.6            0.6            "             1.4
8                 23.3        32.6       9.3                      6.7           0.6                          1.6
9                 22.9        34.6      11.7                      7.5           0.8                          3.0
10                  23.4       36.8      13.4                      7.6           0.9             "            4.5
11                  23.2       38.5      15.3                      7.8           1.0                          6.1
12                  23.5       41.2      17.7                      8.3           1.2                          7.8
13                  23.5       43.4      19.9                      8.7           1.3                          9.5
14                  23.4       45.3      21.9                     9.0            1.4                         11.1
15                  23.5       47.6      24.1                     9.5            1.6                         12.6
16                  22.4       48.7      26.3                      9.9           1.7                         14.3
17                  22.0       51.0      29.0                    10.2            1.9                         16.5
18                  21.7       53.3      31.6                    10.6            2.1                         18.5
19                  21.5       55.8      34.3                    10.9            2.2                         20.8
20                  21.4       58.7      37.3                    11.3            2.4                         23.2
21                  21.3       61.5      40.2                    11.6            2.6                         25.6
22                  20.7       62.7      42.0                    11.9            2.7                         27.0
23                  20.2       64.0      43.8                    12.2            2.8                         28.4
24                  19.7       65.4      45.7                    12.5            3.0                         29.8
25                  19.6       67.1      47.5                    12.7            3.1                         31.3
26                  19.3       68.7      49.4                    13.1            3.2                         32.7
27                  19.1       70.4      51.3                    13.3            3.3                         34.3
28                  18.8       72.2      53.4                    13.6            3.3                         36.1
29                  18.4       74.2      55.8                    13.8            3.6                         38.0
30                 18.4        76.4      58.0                    14.0            3.8            0.4          39.8
Financial Rate of Return about 17%
1/  Table 31.
2/  Table 31.
3/ Incremental Revenue (2/- 1/).
4/ Including physical contingencies. From Table 30.
5/ Incremental estate operating costs from Annex 6, Tables 4 and 5 (Project File).
6/  Incremental processing and marketing costs from Annex 2, Tables 8 and 9 (Project File).
7/ Incremental Head Office costs; Salary K 182,000 plus vehicle operations; supplies and building
maintenance 230,000.
July 20, 1978.



BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Prolect
Forecast Cash Flow (PCD Rubber Estate Operations)
(Million Kyats)
Year     Year      Year      Year      Year     Year      Year      Year      Year      Year          Year
EXPENDITURE                                       1         2         3         4         5        6 _       7         8         9         10           15_
Estate operating costs I/                     19.3      19.6      20.6     20.6      20.2      20.0      20.2      20.3      20.7      20.9         21.8
Processing & Marketing Costs 21                1.9       2.1       2.1      2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1       2.2       2.3       2.5          3.2
Head Office Costs 3/ 4                         0.4       0.6       0.6       D.6      0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6          0.6
Technical Assistance -                         1.7       1.3       0.9      0.7
Training 5/                                    0.2       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2          0.2
TOTAT, EXPENQrT=RU                               23.5      23.9      24.5      24.3      23.1     22.9      23.1      23.3      23.8      24.2         25.8
INCOME
Export and Domestic Sales Revenue 6/          28.3      30.6      31.2     31.4      31.9      31.8      32.1      32.6      34.7      36.8         47.6
NET INCOME                                        4.8       6.7       6.7       7.1       8.8      8.9       9.0       9.3      10.9      12.6         21.8
CASH FLOW
Outflow                                        33        09        2.-                                               ---
Investments 7/                            13.3     lo.9       7.2-
Increase in Working Capital 8/             0.4       _-                  -              -         -         -            0.1        -            0.1
Asset replacement (average)                0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8           0.8
Surplus                                     -         -        -        7.1       8.8       8.9       9.0       9.3     10.9      12.6          21.8
Inflow
Net income                                 4.8      6.7       6.7      7.1        8.8       8.9       9.0       9.3      10.9     12.6          21.8
Depreciation                               0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8        0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8           0.8
Budget Allocation  Annual                  8.9      4.2       0.5       -          -         -         _         _   -               -
aimulativa            8.9     13,1      13.6
1/  Annex 6, Table 4 Project File.
2/  Processing Costs Annex 2, Table 8. Total volume of output Annex 7, Table 2.  Transport and marketing unit cost Annex 2, Table 9.  Processing costs
refer to crepe and crumb production and excludes  sheet production which is included in 1/.
3/  Includes salaries Annex 6, Table 2 and equipment operating costs Annex 3, Table 6.
4/  Annex 8, Table 3.
5/  Annex 8, Table 4. Years 5+ training assumed to cost KO.2M per year.
6/  Annex 2, Table 11.
7/  Annex 6, Table 1; Annex 6, Table 2; Annex 2, Table 3; and Annex 8. Table 5.
8/  Equivalent to 17% of the incremental processing and marketing costs.
September 15, 1978



- 78 -                            TABLE 34
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Economic Rate of Return
(Million Kyat)
Incre-
Incre-     mental
Value of              nental      Processing  Incre-
Incre -      Incre-       Project  Estate       and         mental        Net
Project      mental        mental       Costs    Operating  Marketing   Head Office  Benefits
Year         Production   Production          3   (:osts 4/   Costs  4/   Costs
(long tons4'        2/         _          _            4              _
1           1,255           17.1       29.7        0           0           0             (12.6)
2           1,182           16.1       24.3        0           0            0             (8.2)
3           1,217           16.6       20.7        0          0            0              (4.1)
4           1,188           16.2       12.7        0           0           0               3.5
5           1,215           16.6                   8.1         0.8         0.6             7.1
6           1,258           17.1                   8.4         0.8         "               7.3
7           1,290           17.6                   8.5        0.8          "               7.7
8           1,352           18.4                   8.6         0.8         "               8.4
9           1,722           23.5                   9.7         1.1         "              12.1
10           1,974           26.9                   9.8         1.2          "             15.3
11           2,247            30.6                 10.1         1.3          "             18.6
12           2,629            35.8                 10.7         1.6          "             22.9
13           2,960           40.3                  11.2         1.7                        26.8
14            3,272          44.6                  11.6         1.9                        30.5
15            3,606          49.1                  12.3         2.1                        34.1
16            3,955          53.9                  12.8         2.3          "             38.2
17           4,353           59.3                  13.2         2.5          "             43.1
18           4,764           64.9                  13.7         2.8          "             47.8
19           5,186            70.7                 14.1         2.9                        53.1
20           5,629            76.7                 14.6         3.2                        58.3
21           6,079            82.9                 15.0         3.4                        63.9
22           6,348            86.5                 15.4         3.6          "             66.9
23           6,623           90.3                  15.7         3.7                        70.3
24           6,915           94.2                  16.1         4.0                        73.5
25            7,197          98.1                  16.4         4.1          "             76.9
26            7,492         102.1                  16.9         4.2                        80.4
27            7,799         106.3                  17.2         4.4          "             84.1
28           8,109          110.5                  17.5         4.4          "             88.0
29           8,479          115.6                  17.8         4.8          "             92.4
30           8,804          120.0                  18.1         5.0          0.6           96.3
Economic Rate of Return about 30%
1/ From Annex 7, Tables 2 and 4 (Project File).
2/ All production valued at world price adjusted for freight insurance and quality
differences. Average FOB price used $908.6/long ton or K 13,629 at shadow rate of
15 K per US dollar.
3/ From Table 30. Costs includes physical contingencies, foreign exchange shadow
priced at K 15/US$. Duties and taxes deducted and labor costed at market rates.
4/ Foreign exchange shadow priced. Adjusted for taxes duties and subsidies. Labor valued
at market rates.
July 20, 1978.



- 79 -                            TABLE 35
BURMA
Rubber Rehabilitation Project
Sensitivity Analysis: Economic ROR
ROR(%)
Base (including physical contingencies)                     30.4
10% increase in Project Costs                               26.4
10% increase in Estate Operating Costs
(With Project)                                            29.5
10% decrease in Incremental Production
(With Project)                                            25.5
July 21, 1978.



BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tentative Phasing of Technical Assistance
Year 1                                     Year 2                                      Year 3                                       Year 4
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 {22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31i32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48
Estate Advisor                                                                       . L L  .-.-  -.- -.... . ....... .... ..                                         ......... ...                   .
Adaptive Research and                                                                                                                (8)
Monitoring Advisor                                                                                                                   8
Training Consultant
Consultant Pathologist                                       .            .........(1)                                                                                                                            0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... ..... ..                                                                           Inpu Sugse uin hspro
Soil Surveyor/Land Use
Consultant                                         ..........(1)
Clone Identifier
Processing Consultant
Project Preparation
KEY:
~~Proposed Input
......input Suggested during this period.
July 19, 1978                                                                                                                                                                    World Bank -19493



BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year VqI                                     Year 2                                      Year 3                                      Year 4
Project Activities-- -                                                                                                                                                        ---
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11112 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 |31 |32 33 34 35136 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48
Estate Rehabilitation--                            -- -           ----t             ---I---
Equipment Procurement                 __-) -                                      --r-*                                  T               _' 1000)
Civil Works M%)                        _  _                                 (30)                                        (60)  _  _                                      (   )
Nursery Establishment (ac)
Budwood                                  5
Polybag                                 (5)(1(.5
Cleaving and Land Preparation (ac)        (1250)                           (1100)                                                                                 (1300)  |        
Planting (ac)
Clonal Seedling Stumps(0)
Direct Seeded                                    (450)                                      (550)                                       (700)                                         (500)
Polybag                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(550                           (650)                                        (850)
Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities                                                                                                                                                                                           I
Eqtuipnment procurement                                                                                                                                                                                                         H0
Sheeting Factories )%)                -       -40  ---                                  -                      -                 -(5)   T          
Creping Mills (%)                    _  I    I   _            _            _ (50i
Crumb Plant)% W                                                              (60)    -                                    100)
Civil Works
Sheeting Factories(%)                 _      -          -                    (40)                                       i(75)
Crumb Plant                           -                                  1               6-5-                                I 
Ettuipment)%(  -  -        mmm                  '100)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(00
Staff Development and Research                                                     I
Civil Works N                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(50)
Training (man months/year)                                                        I                                         I
Inservice                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~(142.5)                           (83.5)                                       (71)                                        (71)
Overseas (Study Tours)                _  m                                                                                1 2 _ m  _  (12) 1-    - =  =  =  =  =  (                                          - 1  h2
Overseas (Specific Courses)          _       -             _  _  _  _        (24)                         _38                                                          (-38)      - 1  1  1 -  -  -  -  -          38
Technical Assistance (man months/year)                                        (29.5)                                      (122)   |  |       I                          (4)         -                             (10.5
_~~~~~~~ --                                                                       .                               _  __                       _=                           
a/ Fiscal Year - April to March.
World Bank - 19494
'1



- 82 -                                                      Chart C.3.
BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization of Plantation Crop Division11
r---1
I    PAPRD                             General Manager
L__,__
H       |
E                       Monitoring
A                  ~~~~~~~Unit
A
D                        DAGM
2 Staff
0
F
F
I            PRODCTION               ADMINISRATION              RUBBER PROCUREMENT,
C                AND                        AND                      INPUT SUPPLY,
E             RESEARCH                   ACCOUNTS                  PROCESSING AND
MARKETING
DGM                       DGM                           DGM
5 Staff                  14 Staff                       6 Staff
F           GOVERNMENT                 GOVERNMENT                 GOVERNMENT                  TRANSPORT
RUBBER                 PROCUREMENT                 PROCESSING                AND STORAGE
ESTATES                   CENTERS                   FACILITIES                 FACILITIES
E
15 in Project Area
L            8 outside Project            27 Total                2 Creping Mills
D                Area                                             1 Crumb Plant
23 Total        I_I                                                  I                          I
1/ As envisaged for Rubber Rehabilitation Project. Production and Processing sections would also handle other crops
VVorld Bank-19495



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
BURMA
RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.        General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Sub-Sector
Al.       World Bank, "Agricultural Development and Credit in the Union of
Burma" Report No. 454a-BA, July 31, 1974.
B.        Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi.       Consultant's Feasibility Study, "Rubber Rehabilitation Study"
October 1977. Two volumes.
C.        Selected Working Papers
Cl.       The Government Rubber Estates:  Present Situation
C2.       Rubber Processing:  Present Situation
03.       Consultant's Report:  Transport Analysis
C4.       Consultant's Report:  Procurement and Marketing
C5.       Selected Working Tables






BANGLXqESH'/-
IOD
ci                                                                                               1*
0
-0    00 >z >1   2                    >
X  rn i",                             Om
z          X m > a 0 0    -4
>                  -<  >  >   *        0
tn  m  0   Z       0   M
-< 0 m 0
z <            z               o 0
m z
>              0   0   m
r-                     >       q  2
0          m   0   > Z
o  Z           (A     CA
m
-0                                 0                          V) -n       m
0 C                                >    >
>   z                              0       cn
m  0                               r-
m
U)
tn                                            0
N.nZ.,             o                                                                                                                                    140
Qot 2.,                                           rTi >                                                         m
200
L§                                                                    zt     Z
C
it
C:1
C
;t                                                    -i                  rri
m



