Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H494-CG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for HIV/ AIDS and Health Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 21, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H494-CG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 21, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
CONGO (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”): 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the United States Dollar. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: The CNLS/UDLS 
Decree or any texts enacted for its application shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as, in the opinion of the 
Association, to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely 
that the Recipient has deposited an amount equivalent to one million United 
States Dollars (USD 1,000,000) into the Project Counterpart Funds Account. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient responsible for 
finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
B.P. 2083 
Brazzaville 
Republic of Congo 
Facsimile:  
242-814-145 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Brazzaville, Congo, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By
 /s/ Pacifique Issoïbeka 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Marie Françoise Marie-Nelly 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to the Re
cipient’s efforts to: 
(i) limit the spread of HIV/AIDS and STIs in the Recipient’s population; (ii) mitigate the 
health and socioeconomic impact of HIV/AIDS and STIs on persons infected with or 
affected by HIV/AIDS and STIs within the Recipient’s territory; and (iii) build strong 
and sustainable national capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
The Project is a scaling up of the Original Project and consists of the following 
parts: 
Part A
:
Public Sector Response 
1. 
Health Sector Response:
 
Carrying out of a program by CNLS/PES to coordinate and standardize the Recipient’s 
HIV/AIDS response activities (including voluntary counseling and testing, diagnosis and 
treatment of STIs, and anti-retroviral therapy) at the national level and to build capacity 
of decentralized units of the MSASF to implement and monitor and evaluate such 
HIV/AIDS response activities, by 
inter alia
:
(a) establishing regional HIV/AIDS training 
teams; (b) integrating HIV/AIDS response activities into the essential health services of 
PDSS; (c) upgrading health facilities and training their staff on HIV/AIDS response; and 
(d) reorganizing the hospitals to address the needs of victims of gender-based sexual 
violence; all through the provision of technical advisory services, training and goods 
required for the purpose.
 
2.
 
Multi Sector Response:
 
Carrying out of a program through PSOs of specific development action plans to fight 
and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS and STIs on communities within their jurisdiction, 
such program to consist of: (a) information dissemination to PSOs; (b) peer education in 
the Recipient’s education institutions; (c) behavior change communication campaigns 
conducted by PSOs; (d) distribution of male and female condoms to PSOs for distribution 
to the communities in which they operate; (e) adoption of a legal framework appropriate 
to protect victims of HIV/AIDS and victims of sexual violence; and (f) support of a 
network of associations of teenage mothers; all through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training and goods required for the purpose. 
Page  7
6
Part B
:
Civil Society Response
Carrying out of a program to support CSO initiatives against HIV/AIDS, 
consisting of the: 
1. 
Financing, through the provision of Micro-Grants to CSOs, of Micro-Projects 
aimed at HIV/AIDS prevention, provision of care and support and treatment and 
mitigation of HIV impact (including goods required for the purpose); and  
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services to CSOs in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
Part C
:
Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children
Carrying out of a program to facilitate and promote the social integration and education 
of Orphans and other vulnerable children to limit future erosion of human capital, 
consisting of:  
1.  
Identification of Orphans and other vulnerable children using objective criteria 
included in the Project Implementation Manual;  
2. 
Provision to such children of access to health care; education and vocational 
training; and psychological support; and  
3. 
Provision of income generating initiatives targeted to guardian families and 
designed to improve the socio-economic well being of such children; 
all through the provision of technical advisory services and training. 
Part D
:
Management and Coordination, Capacity Building and Monitoring and 
Evaluation
1. 
Management and Coordination:
 
(a) Coordination of the Project, (b) Updating of the 
Recipient’s national HIV/AIDS 
strategic plan, (c) coordination of the PSOs’ preparation of Action Plans, and (d) carrying 
out of financial management, accounting, procurement and data collection activities, as 
well as financial and technical audits; all through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training and goods required for the purpose. 
Page  8
7
2.   
Capacity Building:
 
Carrying out of a capacity building program to strengthen the capacity of CNLS, PSOs 
and CSOs to carry out their activities under the Project, including monitoring and 
evaluation of such activities, through the provision of technical advisory services, 
training and goods required for the purpose. 
3.   
Monitoring and Evaluation:
 
(a) 
Strengthen the monitoring and evaluation capacity at decentralized level and 
ensure effective coordination with PDSS on timely collection of relevant data; and 
(b) 
Carrying out through CNSEE of a national demographic and health survey, and 
provision of technical services and goods required for the purpose.  
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. Project 
Implementation 
Manual
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual and shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation 
Manual without the Association’s prior written approval.  In the event of any 
inconsistency between the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. 
2.  
CNLS and UDLS
(a) 
Throughout Project implementation, the Recipient shall maintain CNLS 
(including the PES) and UDLS, with functions, staffing, resources and operation 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the CNLS/UDLS Decree and the 
Project Implementation Manual; 
(b) 
 
CNLS, through PES, shall be responsible for daily facilitation, 
implementation, monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the Project including, 
inter
 
alia
:
(i) preparation of consolidated annual work programs and budgets for the Project; 
(ii) preparation of financial reports in accordance with Section II.B of this Agreement; 
(iii) preparation of Project Reports; and (iv) review of Action Plans and Micro-Projects 
and conclusion of the relevant agreements in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall facilitate the implementation and coordination of the 
Project at the regional level through UDLS.  
Page  10
9
3. Financial 
Management
In order to ensure the proper financial management of the Project, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
 appoint to CNLS under terms of reference and with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association, a financial manager for the Project not later 
than two (2) months after the Effective Date; and 
 
(b) 
employ external auditors in accordance with Section III of this Schedule, 
not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Annual Work Plans; Action Plans; Training Programs 
1. Annual 
Work 
Plans
The Recipient shall:  (a), through PES, prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 2009, and 
thereafter not later than December 31 of each year during the period of Project 
implementation, 
for the Association’s review and approval, an annual work plan of 
activities (including proposed Action Plans to be implemented by PSOs and training and 
workshop programs) proposed for inclusion in the Project during the following calendar 
year, together with a budget for such activities and a timetable for their implementation, 
as well as a proposed Indigenous Peoples’ Plan in the event the proposed work plan of 
activities involves any Indigenous Peoples; and (b) thereafter, carry out during such 
following year, such work plan as shall have been approved by the Association and in 
accordance with such Indigenous Peoples’ Plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association and disclosed to the affected groups.  Only activities included in an annual 
work plan approved by the Association shall be eligible for inclusion in the Project. 
2. Action 
Plans
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, no
 
development 
action plan shall be eligible for inclusion as an Action Plan under Part A.2 of the Project 
unless and until the Recipient: 
Page  11
10 
 
(a) 
through the PSO proposing to carry out such plan, shall have prepared 
such plan in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual;  
 
(b) 
through such PSO has established an HIV/AIDS sector unit with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, with qualified and experience staff in adequate 
numbers and other resources required to carry out its functions, and a financial 
management system satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(c) 
and such PSO have concluded arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association for the proper implementation of such development action plan in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual.  
3. 
Training and Workshops
The Recipient shall ensure that in preparing any training or workshops proposed for 
inclusion in the Project under an Annual Work Plan it shall identify in the work plan: 
(a) the objective and content of the training or workshop envisaged; (b) the selection 
method of institutions conducting such training or workshop; (c) the expected duration 
and an estimate of the cost of said training or workshops; and (d) the personnel selected 
to attend the training or the workshop. 
D. Safeguards
 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental and 
Social Management Framework (including the Bio-Medical Waste Management Plan), 
the 
Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework and any Indigenous People’s Plan prepared 
pursuant to Part C of this Section I,  and shall not amend, supplement or waive any 
provision of the Environmental and Social Management Framework, Bio-Medical Waste 
Management Plan, Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework or Indigenous People’s 
Plan without the Association’s prior written approval.  
E. Micro-projects
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Micro-Grant is made to a CSO for a Micro-
Project in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the 
Association, which shall include the following (as the same may be further elaborated in 
the Project Implementation Manual):  (a) the CSO has the legal capacity to contract under 
the laws of the Recipient; (b) the CSO has prepared the Micro-Project; and (c) the 
Association has approved the Micro-Project. 
Page  12
11 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Micro-Grant is made under a Micro-Grant 
Agreement with the respective CSO on terms and conditions approved by the 
Association, which shall include the following:   
 
(a)  
The Micro-Grant shall be made on a grant basis. 
 
(b) 
The Micro-Grant Agreement shall contain a description of the approved 
Micro-Project, with its budget and performance indicators. 
 
(c)  
The Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and 
those of the Association, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the 
CSO to use the proceeds of the Micro-Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the 
amount of the Micro-Grant then withdrawn, upon the 
CSO’s failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the Micro-Grant Agreement; and (ii) require each CSO to:  (A) carry 
out its Micro-Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and 
practices satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance with the provisions of 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of grant proceeds other than the 
Recipient and with the Biomedical Waste Management Plan and any Indigenous Peoples’ 
Plan applicable to such Micro-Project; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources 
required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of 
the Micro-Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and ensure that 
such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Micro-
Project; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the progress of the 
Micro-Project and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Micro-Project; and (2) at 
the Association’s or the Recipient’s request, have such financial statements audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, and promptly furnish the 
statements as so audited to the Recipient and the Association; (F) enable the Recipient 
and the Association to inspect the Micro-Project, its operation and any relevant records 
and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such 
information as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing. 
3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each Micro-Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Micro-Grant 
Agreement or any of its provisions.  
Page  13
12 
 
F. Project 
Counterpart 
Funds 
1. 
The Recipient shall open and thereafter at all times throughout the 
implementation of the Project maintain in a financial institution and on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association, an account into which all counterpart funds 
required for the Project shall be deposited and maintained until required to pay for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.03 of the General 
Conditions, the Recipient shall deposit into the Project Counterpart Funds Account each 
of the following amounts not later than the dates indicated next to such amount: 
Amount (in Dollars) 
Date 
USD1 million 
Effective Date 
USD 2 million 
March 2010 
USD 2 million 
September 2010 
USD 2 million 
March 2011 
USD 2 million 
September 2011 
USD 1 million 
February 2012 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all amounts deposited in the Project Counterpart 
Funds Account shall be used exclusively to pay for Eligible Expenditures. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
Page  14
13 
 
1. 
Percentage of men and women aged 15-49 having used a condom 
during their last sexual contact with a casual partner. 
2. 
Percentage of men and women aged 15 to 49 (a) reporting 
knowledge that HIV can be transmitted from mother to child 
during pregnancy, and (b) identifying condoms as a prevention 
method. 
3. 
HIV prevalence among 15-19 year-old women. 
4. 
Percentage of pregnant women living with HIV who received 
antiretroviral therapy to reduce the risk of mother to child 
transmission. 
5. 
Number of people living with HIV/AIDS benefiting from 
antiretroviral treatment and monitoring at the frequency defined 
by national guidelines. 
6. 
Number of Orphans and other vulnerable children receiving a 
package of services (education, health, and psycho-social support). 
7. 
Number of regional HIV/AIDS units (UDLS) reporting annually 
on at least 75% of the indicators specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  15
14 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.   
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to 
the Association. 
Page  16
15 
 
(e) Procurement from United Nations agencies including the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Office of the United Nations (IAPSO), the United 
Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Fund 
for Population Activities (UNFPA), and the World Health Organization 
(WHO). 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consul
tants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Single-source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Page  17
16 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, Consultants’ 
Services, Training  and 
Operating Costs for the 
Project  
 
3,400,000 
 
33 1/3% 
TOTAL AMOUNT
3,400,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
3. 
The Closing Date of the Original Financing Agreement is amended to read 
June 30, 2012. 
Page  18
17 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Action Plan” means a specific development action plan referred to in Part A.2 of 
the Project to fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic, approved by the Association 
in accordance with, and which otherwise comply with the requirements of, 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be carried out by a PSO (as 
hereinafter defined). 
2. 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Bio-Medical Waste Management Plan” means the plan dated 11 May 2009, 
adopted by the Recipient for the management of hazardous health/medical waste 
under the Project, as the same may be amended and/or supplemented from time 
to time with the prior written agreement of the Association in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and such term 
includes any schedule to the Plan. 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
7. 
“CNLS” means the 
Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA
,
the Recipient’s 
National Council for the Fight against HIV/AIDS, established and operating 
pursuant to the CNLS/UDLS Decree.  
8. 
“CNLS/UDLS Decree” means the Recipient’s Decree No. 2002/368 dated 
November 30, 2002, as amended by Decree No. 2004-399, dated August 27, 
2004, providing for the establishment and operation of the CNLS and UDLS. 
9. “CNSEE” 
means 
Centre National de la Statistique et des Études Économiques,
 
the Recipient’s national statistics authority under the Recipient’s ministry 
responsible for planning, or any successor thereto. 
Page  19
18 
 
10. 
“CSO” means a civil society organization established as a legal entity and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient, including 
inter alia,
 rural or urban 
communities, grass-root organizations, religious and cultural organizations, 
professional and non-professional associations, private enterprises, NGOs and 
community-based associations involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS and 
which have met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual and the requirements of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
11. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Recipient’s 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, set forth in the document 
entitled 
“Projet de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA et de Santé (PLVSS 2) (Phase 
d’extension) – Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale (CGES) – Rapport 
Final » 
and dated May 11, 2009, as the same may be amended and/or 
supplemented from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Association in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and such term includes any schedule to the Plan. 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
13. 
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus.  
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples” has the meaning ascribed to it in the Association’s 
Operational Policy No. 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), dated July 2005. 
15. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Plan” means a plan developed by the Recipient pursuant to 
the Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I. C. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the 
Association. 
16. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework” means the Recipient’s framework, 
dated May 15, 2009 and referred to in Section I. D. of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, which provides guidelines and procedures for the preparation, 
adoption and implementation of Indigenous Peoples’ Plan(s) for the consultation 
with and informed participation of Indigenous Peoples who are present in or have 
collective attachment to areas under the Project, as said framework may be 
amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior approval of the 
Bank; 
Page  20
19 
 
17. 
“Micro-Grant” means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the Grant to a 
CSO to finance a Micro-Project; 
18. 
“Micro-Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and a CSO, providing a Micro-Grant for a Micro-Project and referred 
to in Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
19. 
“Micro-Project” means a specific development project described in Part B.1 of 
the Project, to be implemented by an CSO and financed, or proposed to be 
financed, through a Micro-Grant. 
20. 
“MSASF” means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for health. 
21. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating under 
the laws of the Recipient. 
22. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, consisting of office supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, banking charges, rental 
expenses, office maintenance costs, office equipment maintenance, utilities, 
documents duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for 
Project staff for travel linked to the implementation of the Project and salaries of 
contractual staff for the Project, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
23. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development grant agreement for a 
HIV/AIDS and Health Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
May 4, 2004 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Grant No H082 COB). 
24. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
25. 
“Orphans” means children under to the age of 16 who have lost one or both 
parents. 
 
26. 
“PDSS” means the Project described in the Financing Agreement for a Health 
Sector Services Development Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated July 18, 2008 (Grant No H393-CG). 
Page  21
20 
 
27. 
“PES” means the permanent executive secretariat of the CNLS the specific 
attributions of which are defined in 
arrêté
 No. 200 dated February 3, 2003 (the 
“PES Decree”). 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 2, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
30. 
“Project Counterpart Funds Account” means the account to be established and 
maintained by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section I.F of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
31. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Recipient’s manual dated 
June 22, 2009, containing detailed arrangements and procedures for the Project, 
including, 
inter alia
,
policies, financial, administrative, procurement and 
accounting procedures as well as guidelines to be followed in the implementation 
and monitoring of the Project, as the same may be amended and/or supplemented 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association; and such 
term includes any schedule to the PIM. 
32. 
“PSO” means any of the Recipient’s ministries involved in HIV/AIDS response. 
33. 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infections. 
34. 
“Training” means the following expenditures incurred in providing training: 
scholarships, stipends, preparation and purchase of training materials, rental of 
training facilities, health insurance for travel abroad, per diem allowances during 
the training and travel costs to the training location of  participants to such 
training. 
35. “UDLS” 
means 
Un
ité Départementale de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA
,
the 
Recipient’s provincial committee for the fight against HIV/AIDS established and 
operating pursuant to the CNLS/UDLS Decree. 
Page  22
21 
 
