                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                             ReportNo: 27448-COB




                                PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                         PROPOSED GRANT

           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 12.8MILLION(US$19MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

REPUBLICOF CONGO INSUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASEOF THE HIV/AIDS AND HEALTH
                                   PROJECT (MAP 2 PROGRAM)




                                             March 19, 2004




HumanDevelopmentUnit3 (AFTH3)
Africa RegionalOffice
This document has a restricteddistributionandmaybe usedby recipientsonly inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                         (ExchangeRateEffectiveJanuary 1,2004)

                                                Currency Unit = FCFA
                                                    FCFA 650 = US$1
                                                         U S S l = FCFA650

                                                         FISCALYEAR
                                                    January 1   -- December31

                                          ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ACCESS    Accelerated Access to HIViAIDS Care                    MIS         Management InformationSystem
          Initiative                                             MOHP        Ministry o f Healthand Population
AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome                    NGO         Non-Govemment Organization
ARV       Anti-Retroviral medications                            01          Opportunistic Infections
CBO       Community-Based Organization                           OPALS       The PanAfrican AIDS Organization
CDHS      Congo Demographic and Health Survey                    ovc         Orphans& other Vulnerable Children
CDLS      Comites Dipartementaus de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA     PHRD        Japanese Policy & HumanResources Development
CENAMES   Public agency for purchasing essentialpharmaceuticals              Fund
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessement           PLWHA       PeopleLiving with HIV-AIDS
CHU       University Hospital Center                             PMCT        PreventionMother-to-Child Transmission
CNLSiSEP  Conseil National de Lutte Contre le VIH/SIDA           PMRU I1     Second UrbanEnvironment Micro-Projects Program
          Secrkturiat Esicutif Permanent                         PNLS-SantC  MinistryofHealthAIDS Program
CNSEE     Centre National de la Statistique et des Etudes        POM         Project Operations Manual
          Economiques                                            PRESIEC     AIDS Prevention in Congo Schools Project
CNTS      National Blood Transfusions Center                     PSO         Public SectorOrganization
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report                  PURICV      Urban Rehabilitation Project
CSI       Centre de Suntk Intkgrk                                RENOSI      NationalNGO Network against HIV/AIDS
CSO       Civil Society Organization                             SHAU        Sectoral HIVAIDS Unit
CTA       Ambulatory Treatment Centers                           STI         Sexually Transmitted Infections
DOTS      Direct Observation Treatment System                    TANGO       Technical AssistanceNGO
ELISA     Enzyme-Linked Immuno-SorbentAssay                      TB          Tuberculosis
EMP       Environment Management Plan                            TSS         Transitional Support Strategy
FAPM      Financial Acounting ProceduresManual                   UNAIDS      Joint UnitedNations Programme on HIV/AIDS
FCFA      Francs de la Communauti Financiire en Afrique          UNDB        UnitedNations DevelopmentBusiness
          Centrale                                               UNHCR       UnitedNations High Commissariat for Refugies
FMA       Fiduciary Management Agency                            UNDP        UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
GRET      Groupe de Recherche et d'Echanges                      UNESCO      UnitedNations Education, Scientific & Cultural
          Technologiques                                                     Organization
HIV       Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus                          UNFPA       UnitedNations Fund for PopulationAssistance
IAD       Intemal Audit Department                               UNGASS      UnitedNations General Assembly
ICAARV    CongoleseInitiative Access to ARV                      UNICEF      UnitedNations International Fundfor Children
IEC/BCC   Information, Educationand                              UNICONGO    Employers' Associations of Congo
          CommunicatiodBehaviorComportment Change                VCT         Voluntary Counselingand Testing
KAE4P     Knowledge, Attitude Belief and Practice                WFP         World FoodProgram
M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation                                WHO         World HealthOrganization




                                              Vice President:      CallistoE. Madavo
                                           Country Director:       EmmanuelMbi
                                            Sector Manager:        LauraFrigenti
                                         Task TeamLeader:          Michele L.Lioy

                                                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                            CONGO, REPUBLIC OF
                                HIV/AIDS AND HEALTH (MAP PROGRAM)


                                                  CONTENTS




    A. Project DevelopmentObjective                                                         Page

       1. Project development objective                                                       2
       2. Keyperformance indicators                                                           2

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
       3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   10

    C. Project Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                  12
       2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project                        16
       3. Benefits and target population                                                      16
       4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       17

    D.Project Rationale

       1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection                            18
       2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       19
       3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  21
       4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership                                   22
       5. Value added o f Bank support in this project                                        22

    E. Summary Project Analysis

       1. Economic                                                                            22
       2. Financial                                                                           23
       3. Technical                                                                           23
       4. Institutional                                                                       23
       5. Environmental                                                                       24
       6. Social                                                                              25
       7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  26




This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                              27
   2. Critical risks                                              27
   3. Possible controversial aspects                              28


G. Main Grant Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                     28
   2. Other                                                       28

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                    29

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                      29


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary- Logical Framework                30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                             36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                  47
Annex 4: Supervision Framework                                    48
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                        51
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                             52
           (B)FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements    59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                              71
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                           72
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                          73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                     75
Annex 11: MedicalWaste Management Plan- Executive Summary         77




MAP(S)
IBRDNo. 32895

                                            CONGO, REPUBLIC OF
                                      HIVIAIDS andHealth(MAPprogram)

                                       ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                             Africa RegionalOffice
                                                    AFTH3

Date: March 19, 2004                                    Team Leader: Michele L.Lioy
sector Manager: Laura Frigenti                          Sector(s): Other social services (65%), Health (35%)
Country Director: EmmanuelMbi                           Theme(s): Other communicablediseases (P), Other social
Project ID: PO77513                                     protectionandriskmanagement(S), Gender (S)
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)
Project Financing Data
 [ ]Loan       [ ] Credit      [XI Grant     [ ]Guarantee         [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $19.00
Financing Plan (US$m):        Source                                 Local           Foreign            Total
BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                      2.00                0.00           2.00
[DA GRANTFORHIVIAIDS                                                   11.00               8.00          19.00
LJN CHILDREN'S FUND                                                    0.10                0.00           0.10
LJNFUNDFORPOPULATIONACTIVITIES                                         0.00                0.10           0.10
WORLD FOODPROGRAM                                                      0.00                0.10           0.10
WORLD HEALTHORGANIZATION                                               0.02                0.08           0.10
Total:                                                                 13.12               8.28          21.40
BorrowerlRecipient: REPUBLICOF CONGO
Responsibleagency: NATIONAL AIDS COUNCIL
(Conseil National de LutteContre le VIH-SIDA --CNLS)
Address: Brazzaville, Republic of Congo
ContactPerson: Dr. Marie-FranckePuruhence, PermanentExecutive Secretary-PermanentExecutive Secretariat ofthe
CNLS
Tel: (242) 51-85-95                Fax:              Email: sep-cnlscongobrazza@yahoo.fr
Estimated Disbursements( Bank FYlUS$m):

    Annual     4.90        4.90        4.20       2.60       2.40
Cumulative     4.90        9.80       14.00      16.60      19.00
Project implementation period: July 30, 2004 - December31,2008
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 07/15/2004      Expected closing date: 06/3012009

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
 The Project's specific development objectives are to support actions by the Government ofthe Congo to:
   0     Slow the spreado f HIV-AIDS and
   0     Strengthen support and care for people infected or affected by HIV-AIDS.

To reach these objectives, the Project follows the proven approach of supporting action across several
sectors and notjust in the health system. (12 sector ministries are involved). More precisely, the Project
supports actions to:
    (i)SupportcivilsocietyandcommunityinitiativesforHIV-AIDSpreventionandcare;
    (ii)Expandaccesstotreatmentofopportunisticinfections;
    (iii) andsupportforpeoplelivingwithHIV-AIDS(PLWHA);
         Care
    (iv) Care for orphans & other highlyvulnerable children; and
    (v) Reduce transmission among highrisk groups.

The Project objectives and actions are consistent with the SecondMulti-Country HIV-AIDS Program
(MAP-2 Report No.P7497AFR o f December 20, 2001). Most importantly, these actions support the
Congo's National Strategic Plan (Plan national stratigique) for 2003-2007. The broad objectives o f the
National Strategic Plan are to:
   0     Contain or reduce the level o f the epidemic by 2007;
   0     Mitigate the healthand socioeconomic impact o f HIV-AIDS at individual, household and
         community levels; and
   0     Increase access to prevention services as well as care, treatment and support o f those infected and
         affected by HIV-AIDS, inparticular by developing local responsesto the epidemic.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The sero-prevalence survey ofNovember 2003 was completed, with support from a Japanese Grant, and
forms part o f the baseline to track the performance o f the project. The knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and
practices (KABP) and the socio-cultural survey have also been completed. Further studies that will
establish baseline data are underway, with support from the Grant. These are studies o f the psycho-social
impact o f HIV-AIDS and an analysis o f the condom situation.

Itwill be difficult to assess the impact on the overall population o fproject-supported activities interms of
reduction o f HIV-AIDS prevalence or increasedlife expectancy, withinthe five-year implementation
period. Instead, the impact o f the Project will be measured among key vulnerable groups, as defined inthe
outcome indicators. The main indicators are:

(A more extensive list of indicators appears inAnnex 1.)
Outcome indicators
   0     Byproject end, 60 % of adults 15-49 use a condom duringtheir last sexual contact with a casual
        partner (baseline: 40 %);
   0     By projectend, 90 % ofpeople aged 15 to 49 report knowledge ofvertical transmission (mother to
        child) (baseline: 60 %) and90 YOmention condoms as a preventionmeasure (baseline: not known);
   0     Byproject end, 70 % of women attending prenatal consultations will accept voluntary testingfor
        HIV;
   0    Byproject end, HIV prevalence among 15-24-year-old pregnant women is <2 % and among 14-19



                                                      - 2 -

          year old men 1.5 YO(baseline: 2.4 %, 1.9 % and overall 2.1 %);
     0    By project end, the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STI) among pregnant women
          decreases to 2 YO(baseline data: 3 %)

Output &process indicators
     0    By project end, 13 sentinel sites are functional (baseline data: 0)
     0    Byproject end, 23 healthfacilities provide quality treatment of STIs inthe 5 departmentsassisted
          by the project (baseline: 0)
    0     Byproject end, more than 80% ofpregnant mothers testingpositive, receive PMCTpackets;
    0     Byproject end, less than 20% o f sale points will have hadshortage of condoms inthe last month;
    0     B y project end, all 12 technical ministries are implementingmore than 80% o f the agreed
          HIV-AIDSactionplan;
    0     By project end, disbursement for community civil society andprivate sector initiatives reach at
          least 70% o f the planned levels;
          Byproject end, 90 % ofpopulation are reachedthrough HIV-AIDS IEC/CBC radio/television
          (baseline: 53.9 %);
    0     By June of 2005, data for monitoring of outcome andimpact indicators are collected regularly.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 26566-COB Date of latest CAS discussion: September 11, 2003

For post-conflict countries such as the Republic o f the Congo, the Country Team prepares a Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) rather than a full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) . A TSS covers about two
years and addresses issues o f stabilization, reconstruction and the returnto development. The most recent
TSS was completed on August 8, 2003, and guides operations for FY04and FY05.

The TSS for the Congo supports the Government's InterimPost-conflict Strategy infive areas: (i)
strengthening economic stability and equitable growth and supporting reforms to facilitate the transition to
a market-based economy; (ii)    reestablishing basic economic and social services; (iii)
                                                                                      buildingcapacity of
government and civil society; (iv) fightingthe growing threat o f HIV-AIDS; and (v) providing assistanceto
war-affected and vulnerable groups.

This Project is the World Bank's main instrument for supporting the Government inthe fight against
HIV-AIDS(area iv). The Project also contributes to the reestablishment of social services by investingin
parts of the health system (area ii).Itbuilds the capacity o f Government by investinginthe development o f
the National Aids Council (CNLS), the National Technical HIV-AIDS Commission and its secretariat and
by funding HIV-AIDS programs inministries andit contributes to the capacity o fcivil society by funding
its initiatives (area iii).The Project assistswar-affected andvulnerable groups by supporting programs to
prevent HIV-AIDS among displaced persons, treatment o f rape victims, and programs for orphans and
PLWA (area v).

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

2.1 Context

The country and its resources. The Republic o f the Congo covers about 342,000 square kilometers and
has a population of about 3 million and a population growth rate o f 3%. About two-thirds o f the
population reside inthe capital city o f Brazzaville (home to about 800,000), the port city o f Pointe Noire,



                                                        - 3 -

and the agricultural town o f Dolisie. Agriculture employs about 40% o f the population, but contributes
only about 5% o f GNP. The country's economy i s dominated by production from off-shore petroleum
wells, which contribute about 50% o f GNP. Forests cover more thanhalfthe country and the forestry
sector is recoveringgradually.

TheMarxist-inspired state. The Republic o f Congo became independent from France on August 15,
1960. InAugust 1963, a Marxist-inspired regime took power and imposed single party rule. Inthe 1980s,
poor economic management and falling petroleum prices ledto the accumulation o f large domestic and
foreign debt, put downward pressureon domestic spending,and thereby reduced consumption o f the urban
population. The resulting social and political unrestand the end o f the Cold War brought about the
Confkrence Nationale Souveraine in 1990, which reestablished a multi-partysystem. However poverty
and competition for national resourcescontributed to social stresses and to violent conflicts inthe 1990s,
sometimes along ethnic lines.

Emergencefrom violent conflict. At present, the Republic o f Congo is emerging from civil unrest, with
three rounds o f violent conflicts in 1993-94, 1997, and 1998-99. Large parts o f the country were affected:
the 1993 and 1997 civil wars were fought with particular violence inthe capital, Brazzaville; the
1998-1999 war spreadfurther, inparticular inthe most populatedCentral Congo and Southern areas. At
the height o f the crisis in late 1999, an estimated 810,000 people, or approximately one-third of the
Congolese population, were displaced. Many o f the almost 3 million Congolese enduredterrible ordeals;
some sought refuge inthe forest and survived inmiserable conditions.

Significant progress has been made to restore security. Following a first agreement on the cessationo f
hostilities inNovember 1999, a cease-fire accord was signed on December 29, 1999. Hostilities ended
without much internationalsupport. The peace process has thus largely beenhomegrown, an important
feature for it to lead to lastingpeace. Still, sporadic eruptions o f violence continue, mainly inthe Pool
region, particularly after March 2002, with significant impact on economic activity inBrazzaville (since
the maintransport link to the sea was regularly cut by attacks). Passengertrain traffic is still suspended
between Brazzaville and the coast. The Government reachedan agreement with the last rebel group
(Pastor Ntumi's Ninjas) on March 17,2003, paving the way for the disarmament, demobilization, and
reintegrationo f about 4,000 militia fighters. As a result, in spite o f recent violence in Brazzaville in
December 2003, nearly all o f the country seems at peace.

Damage to infrastructure. The effects o f the recurrent conflict and o f neglect o fmaintenance severely
damagedoperation o f the economy. The railway line and roadbetween Pointe Noire and Brazzaville forms
the country's central conduit for export abroad and for supply of Brazzaville. This conduit was damaged
and passage was blocked during much o f the war. About halfo f the 17,000 kmroad networks are no
longer passable and most dkpartement capitals do not have reliable access to major roads; and most feeder
roads are inoperable. Becauseo f lack o f maintenance, entire provinces do not have access to clean water.
Educational buildingsinthe four southernmost provinces suffered considerable damage. Moreover an
estimated 50 % o f agricultural tools were destroyed and 75 % o f livestock lost.

The results are visible innationaleconomic performance. Although the offshore economy inthe oil sector
continuedto function throughout the wars, GDP per capita dropped from about US$l,100per capita in
1990 to US$630 per capita in2001, almost back to the level at independence.

Damage topublic well-being. At least 70% o f the Congolese live below the poverty line, compared to
about 30% at the beginningo f the conflicts in 1993. The HumanDevelopment Index declined by more
than 12% over the last ten years, and Congo ranks 136 out o f 173 countries. Inparallel, life expectancy



                                                       - 4 -

dropped from about 52 years inthe early 1990sto 48.6 years in 2002. The infant and child mortality rate
i s highat 110 per thousand. The deterioration o f health services has reduced the infant immunization rates
for measles from 99.4 percent in 1979 to 58 percent in 1999.

Poverty has become a near-universal phenomenon and is aggravatedby the vulnerability o f those who are
above the poverty line. People living inrural areas seem particularly affected, especially becauseo f the
collapse o f the transport system, which restricts their access to economic markets and social services.
Several groups are particularly vulnerable as a result o f continued poverty and conflict: at least 11percent
o f children under 15 are orphans, about 60,000 women and girls were victims o f rape, and 5,000 children
fought during the war. According to UNICEF, an additional 70,000 people are still inneed o f urgent
humanitarian assistance (as o f July 2003).

Reconstruction. The Government has tackled reconstruction with financial support from the IMF, the
World Bank, as well as the European Community and other donors. Inparallel, the Government drew on
its petroleum income to finance a reconstruction program o f $950 million, spreadover two years. The
program focuses on housing and repair o f public buildings, and the rehabilitation o f transport
infrastructure, including rail, river ports and airports inisolated areas. The Brazzaville-PointeNoire
railroad i s now functioning, although not at full capacity and not for passengers. GDP has recovered
vigorously since the endo f the last war in 1999, but the social indicators continue to performpoorly.

Decentralization. Since late 2002, some efforts have also been made towards decentralization, bothto
improve service delivery at local level and to empower communities. The country is administratively
dividedinto twelve dipartements (counties), each governed by a Government-appointed prifet and an
elected local assembly, which are entrusted with significant responsibilities for service delivery. The six
urban areas with a population o f over 20,000, are formed into municipalities, governed by an elected mayor
and municipal assembly. This process enables political opposition to be involved inlocal political life, and
i s expected to strengthen local government's accountability.

2.2 Dimensionsof the HIV-AIDS pandemic in Congo

Although the overall situation inthe Congo has improved, the HIV-AIDSpandemic i s complicating the
country's social and economic recovery. HIV-AIDS was first diagnosed inCongo in 1983 among patients
who hadbeen evacuatedto France. By December 31, 1996, a total o f 10,777 AIDS cases had been
reported, andAIDS had become a major cause o f death among adults aged 15 to 45 (35% o f all deaths in
this age group in 1996). The pandemic strikes more females than males: the ratio of males to females
diagnosed with AIDS i s estimated at 0.6 overall (in some regions it is 0.25). Over the past five years, data
on the dimensions o f the HIV-AIDS epidemic in Congo have become unreliable, partial at best, as the
sentinel surveillance system has not been fully operational since the start o f the civil war o f 1997.
However, different sources confirm an alarming spreadof HIV infection. A limitedsurvey conducted by
the Ministryof Health in2000, showed that 14.6 YOo f pregnant women were infectedwith HIV in
Pointe-Noire and 5.4 percent inBrazzaville. In2001, UNAIDS estimated that 110,000 people live with
HIV andthat the national sero-prevalencerate is 7.2%. The nationalHIV sero-prevalence survey carried
out inNovember 2003 indicates that for the adult population the rate i s 4.2% with higher rates among
women 20-35.

2.3 Conditionsinthe healthsector

The health system is badly damagedand cannot deliverminimumpreventive and curative services to the
population. There are several sources o f this dysfunction.


                                                       - 5 -

Healthfacilities. Lack o f physical capacity constrains delivery o f public health services. Over halfo f all
health facilities were ransacked during the civil conflicts and buildings and equipmentdeteriorated for lack
o f preventive maintenance or repair. Most o f the functional resources o fthe health system are concentrated
inBrazzaville and, to a lesser extent, to other urbancenters, where public health facilities are supplemented
by the private sector. Incontrast, there appears to be little usable infrastructure inthe countryside.

Personnel. One o f the major causes o f dysfunction of the health system is the lack o f qualifiedpersonnel,
their concentration in cities, and poor motivation. The number o f health staff inthe public sector declined
from about 12,800 in 1985 to about 7,400 in 1995 and the Ministry o f Health and Population estimates
that there were about 4,500 staff in2002. Over three-quarters o f these staff are concentrated in Brazzaville
and Pointe Noire and very few are assignedto rural areas. Moreover, motivation diminished when the
Government cut the civil service salary scale by 30% in 1993, and the purchasing power o f civil servants
was further reducedby the devaluation o f 1994. Lack of opportunities for promotion or for training has
also contributed to this lack o f motivation.

Pharmaceuticals. Three private wholesale firms dominate supply and distribution o f pharmaceuticals. A
public agency for purchasing essential pharmaceuticals (CENAMES) was created in 1995, with the
assistance of the European Community. However, civil disorders prevented it from functioning well. The
CENAMES is still not able to provide essential generic drugs to the entire public sector, however, many
pharmaceuticals, including ARVs, are available inthe informalmarket. At present, there are plans to
create a new procurement agency. Because o f this situation, the Project will buy pharmaceuticals,
including ARVs, through a system similar (or combined) to that the European Union for the regions which
they are supporting.

Public@nancing. Inadequate public financing contributes to the weak situation o f the health system. The
current-non-wage government budgetfor healthwas 9 billion FCFA in 2001 (US$ 1.73 million), but it
appears that only 10% to 20% o f the budget was actually spent. Estimated actual spending i s about 1.6
billion FCFA (US$ 0.3 million), o f which halfwent to the UniversityHospital Center inBrazzaville. The
total non-wage budget (current    + investment)   was about 1,720 FCFA per capita in 2000-01 (about $US
3.30).

Difficulty to deliver adequate HIV-AIDS & STIprevention and care services. For all these reasons,
many Congolese do not have access to basic services such as treatment o f syphilis and other STIs. The
lack of trained and motivated staff hampers delivery o f information and care. Inaddition, there is also a
lack o f clinical security inhealth facilities and bloodtransfusions are safe only in a few health facilities,
mostly located inurbanareas. Infact, bloodbanks have trouble operating, except inBrazzaville and
Pointe Noire, because o f the lack o f electricity and difficult access. This situation often forces health
personnel working inrural areas to give their patients untestedblood and to resort to direct arm to arm
transfusions. Inadequate HIV testing is also a problem: for example, only four centers conduct rapid
serology tests for HIV andonly the National BloodTransfusions Center (CNTS) had an ELISA chain for
confirmation o f positive HIV tests (four ELISA chains and two Westem Blott machines have been provided
by the PURICV, but they are not yet functional). Faulty management ofmedical wastes (or traditional
practices) is a further factor that promotes the transmission o f HIV and other germs, especially among
healthworkers.




                                                       - 6 -

 2.4 Risk and VulnerabilityFactors

Inadequate management of STZs. Prevention of STIs through condomuse is indisputably critical inthe
fight against HIV-AIDS becauseulcerative STIs, such as herpesgenitalis and syphilis, increasethe riskof
HIV transmission from males to femalesby 50 to 300 times. Discussions with health providers indicate
that STIs are very common inCongo, although no data are available. Nevertheless, the country has not
developed a strategy to adequately manage STIs, although the Government envisages, in collaboration with
WHO, adoption o f the syndromic approach to STI management. This approach combinedwith
prepackaged STI treatment kits (preferably with one dose observed treatment, similar to DOTS for
tuberculosis) may improve control of STIs inboth the public and private health sectors. However, to do so,
workers needs to be trained and drugs to be available.

Cultural aspects of risky behavior. Inurban areas, some marriedmenwith relatively highincomes
support women other than their wives inan institution known locally as 'bureaux'. This is, ineffect, a form
o f polygamy and can favor the spreadof HIV-AIDS. Traditional sexual practices such as 'dry sex' also
favor transmission of HIV-AIDS. Inaddition, there are a few groups practicing scarification, another
potential cause o f HIV transmission.

Another cultural aspect o f HIV-AIDS concerns information. Traditionally, sexual matters are not
discussedinthe family. Group discussions show widespread misconceptions regarding sexually
transmitted diseases, including AIDS    -- especiallyamong youth.

Importantly, some Congolese believe that HIV-AIDS is transmitted by witchcraft and cannot be contracted
from intercourse with an attractive and healthy looking person and some also believe that AIDS can be
cured by sorcery or by participation inreligious cults. Because, STIs are not feared as they can be cured,
and there i s little understanding of the linkbetween HIV infection and STIs, the traditional highlevel o f
sexual activity with multiplepartners, but without condoms, continues. Among youth, sexual activity i s
said to start, on average, at about 16 years o f age.

Commercialsex workers.          Commercial sex workers are numerous, especially inPointe-Noire, their
clients are varied, and most practice unprotected sex. Sexual activities are often unplanned, particularly
among youth, and often occur insituations where the judgment of the individuals is clouded by alcohol
consumption. Poverty also contributes to prostitution, with reports that some school girls practice
occasional prostitution to feed themselves and continue their studies (the sugar daddy phenomenon).
Migrationo f displaced persons may have increasedthe supply o f sex workers while movements o f young
meninmilitary units increaseddemand.

Conflict & rape. The three episodes o f civil war between 1993 and 2000, resulted inthe deaths o f more
than 35,000 people and contributedgreatly to the dismemberment o f the health system. Inaddition, there
were numerous acts o f sexual violence, particularly by meninuniform. A study o f 4,890 persons who
returned to Brazzaville after the conflicts found 1,745 women that hadbeenraped. Many o f these women
suffered major injuries, inparticular gynecological damage, including HIV infection, as well as
psychological trauma.

Soldiers. Turningto the military,HIV-AIDS infection has been the leading cause o f death inthe
Congolese ArmedForces for the past 15 years. About 35% o f soldiers inthe Army Hospital are there for
pathologies linkedto HIV-AIDS. Before the 1997 war, about 9% o f soldiers inthe armed forces were
sero-positive. The rate was 7% for recruits aged 18 to 33 over 1999-2000.




                                                      - 7 -

 2.5     Congo's response to the HIV/AIDS challenge: 1987-2003

Pre-conflict response. The Republic o f Congo initiated activities to combat HIV-AIDS shortly after the
first cases o f AIDS were discovered. The National AIDS Program (PNLS) was established in 1987 within
the Ministry o f Healthas a service o f national scope; and, the National AIDS Committee was established in
1988 to make policy. The PNLS was given the mission to "reduce the impact of AIDS on individuals and
the community, to monitor the progress o f the epidemic and to mobilize all national efforts against this
scourge". Soon after its creation, the PNLS launched an emergency plan. This plan was followed
successively by a short-term plan (1988), a first medium-termplan (1989-1991) and a secondmedium-term
plan(1996-1998). The 1997war preventedany implementationofthe secondplan.

Post-conflict response. On December 1, 2000, AIDS Day 2000, the President o f the Republic announced
the Government's decision to relaunch the AIDS program ithad adoptedbefore the war. To this end, the
President o f the Republic signedDecree No. 2001-190 o f April 11,2001 creating the HIV Mother-to-Child
Transmission Prevention Project (MCTP). This project was intendedto runfor a period o f five years, and
was to involve all the integrated health centers (CSIs) inBrazzaville and Pointe Noire. Inthe event, it was
carried out successfully inPointe Noire, but only inone location, and with little success inBrazzaville.
The relaunching o f the national AIDS program has also ledto preparation o f a draft 'Three-year Strategic
Plan to Combat AIDS (2002-2004); inclusiono f Congo inthe UnitedNations' "Accelerated Access to
HIV-AIDS Care" Initiative (ACCESS), and introduction into the Congo o f the Oubangui and Chari Rivers
Initiative.

Today. Underthe three-year plan for 2002-2004, the Congo plannedto: (i)      preventthe transmission of
STIs & HIV-AIDS;(ii)     care for the sick; (iii)
                                               conduct epidemiological surveillance; (iv) decentralize
activities for combating STIs & HIV-AIDS; (v) train healthpersonnel; and (vi) carry out research.
Unfortunately, none of these activities received appropriate funding and very few have beencarried out.

The ACCESS Initiative enables Congo to benefit from lower prices for anti-retro-viral (ARV) drugs from
the major pharmaceutical companies. ARVs acquired through ACCESS are managed through the
Congolese Initiative Access to ARV (ICAARV) which provides some guidelines for patient selection and
care. ICAARV interventioni s presently financed by a Grant o f FCFA 300 millions, from the President o f
the Republic. Whenit met onNovember 16,2001, the Council of Ministers approved an annual
expenditure o f CFAF 1billion as the Government's contribution to the care and treatment o f PLWHA,
which made it possible to have this amount specified inthe 2004 budget.Inaddition, inthe context o f the
sub-regional fight against HIV-AIDS, the "Rivers Initiative" against HIV-AIDS was initiated with the
African Development Bank's financing. As o f December 2003, however, activities had not yet started
because o f administrative difficulties.

The Ministryof Education, which has a vast structure covering the entire country, hasjoined the campaign
against HIV-AIDS by developing a strategy that includes reducing the vulnerability o f pupilsto HIV-AIDS
by providing themwith informationand strengthening their decision-making andnegotiatingcapacities. To
this end, the Ministryhas launched an innovative project knownas AIDS Prevention inCongo Schools
(PRESIEC), with the assistanceo f UNICEF, UNDP and some funds from the American oil companies
present inCongo. Inaddition, the Ministryo f Education secondedabout fifty teachers to the project, which
intervenes with peer education and Youth Clubs.

Response of civil society. With the onset o f democracy and the growing incapacity o f public services, the
nongovernmental and nonprofit sector has begunto play a significant role inareas that were previously
reserved to the State. The campaign against HIV-AIDS has now beenjoined by about 50 NGOs. As o f


                                                     - 8 -

April 15, 2002, 32 NGOs were grouped in aplatform knownas the National NGONetwork againstAIDS
(RENOSI). These organizations offer a wide range o f services, from information, education and
communicationto voluntary screening for HIV infections and nutritional assistance, as well as
psychological support and medical care for persons affected andlor infected by HIV.

Partnerships. A partnership between the Government and the French Red Cross ledto the establishment o f
two Ambulatory Treatment Centers (CTAs), one inBrazzaville andthe other in Pointe Noire. The MCTP
project is beingrunby a partnership of the Government, the Fondation Congo Assistance, the PanAfrican
AIDS Organization (OPALS), the FrenchRedCross, the EuropeanUnion and the NGOAfrique Santd
Dispensaires. Moreover, Boehringer IngelheimLaboratories has committed itself to supporting activities
under the MCTP project for five years (ofwhich threeremain).

Private Sector. The private for-profit sector inCongo has begunto appreciate the impact o f HIV interms
of reduced productivity and diminished capacity to retainhuman capital, as well as interms o frising
medicalbills. The UNDP is worlung with the private sector to make them aware of the socio-economic
problems causedby HIV-AIDS and provide them with training for peer education.

Joint response of UNagencies. InAugust 2001, five UnitedNations agencies announced ajoint effort
knownas the `United Nations Interagency Emergency Initiative'. This initiative aimed to deliverrapid
interventions to high-riskgroups (such as youth and orphans). Although it focused on emergency
situations, the project was to invest inlonger-term national capacity buildingas well. The project has
supported a limitedpublic information campaign aimed at changing behavior, and plannedto provide AIDS
training to some health-care workers, carry out an epidemiological survey, promote condom use, provide
HIV voluntary screening, care for persons infectedby HIV,buildnational capabilities, and set up
sustainable financing mechanisms. However, this initiative was not funded and each Agency implemented
few o f the activities with their limitedbudget. The partnership is more tangible at the level o f UNAIDS.
Meetings o f the Agencies, as UNAIDS members,are fairly frequent and serve mostly as a coordinating
mechanism. UNAIDS, as an organization, has also contributed to the financing o f some participative
activities and to the organization o f the Donor meetingwhich took place inJune 2003.

 2.6     Government strategy for 2003-2006

The Govemment hasprepared a National Strategic Planfor Combating HIV-AIDS for 2003-2006 (Cadre
National de Lutte contre le VIH-SIDA). The planis based on recommendations made during consultations
andmeetings inall dipartements over July-November 2002. Elected and appointed officials,
representatives o fNGOs, PLWHA associations, churches, youth clubs, women's organizations, andprivate
sector participated inthese meetings. The planwas then ratified through a consensusmeetingof these
partners as well as the donor community. The meeting was held inBrazzaville inDecember 2002.

The plan supports interventions that have been demonstrated to be effective, inparticular, it supports the:
    i. StrengtheningofHIV-AIDSpreventionthroughmulti-sectoral communicationforbehavior
         change activities;
    ii. ExpansionandpromotionofavailabilityofVCTservices;
    ...
    111.  Promotion o f condom utilization;
    iv. Reinforcement o f STI management;
    v.    Security o f blood transfusion;
    vi. Prevention o fmother-to-child transmission .ofVIH;
    vii. Psycho-social, nutritional andmedical support to people livingwith HIV-AIDS (PLWHA);
    viii. Care and support to affected individuals and families, and inparticular orphans;


                                                     - 9 -

    ix. Support to research;
    x.    Improvement o f coordination at all levels; and
    xi.   Support to humanresourcedevelopment.

These interventions are to be implementedon the basis o f sectoral and ddpartement level plans that present
activities and costs. Moreover, eachplan identifies the priority vulnerable groups, the basic packages o f
activities for each group, the financing requirementsand the partnership betweengovernment and
non-governmental institutions. The ddpartement level plans identify interventions and projects ofNGOs
and community-based organizations (CBOs) as well as institutional support for NGOs & CBOs. The
sectoral plans include a strategy to inform and assistthe groups they havejurisdiction on (e.g., the Ministly
o f Defense has a strategy to inform, screenand assist soldiers; the Ministryo f Educationfocuses on
students, etc.). They also include interventions for the personnel o f the Ministry and their families.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The secondphase o f the Multi-Country HIV-AIDSProgram for the Africa Region (MAP2) provides the
framework to prevent the spreado f HIV-AIDSand the Congo HIV/AIDS and HealthProject follows this
framework. The Congo meets the four MAP2 criteria and i s therefore eligible for MAP2 for funding: M A P
criteria:


    Satisfactory evidenceof a strategic approach to HIV-AIDS. In2003, Congo developed a
    comprehensive andbroad-basedHIV-AIDS strategic plan, including adequatestrategies for prevention,
    and for care and support. Program preparation was intensely participatory. Consultations with
    representativeso f government institutions and civil society took place inall provinces by November
     2003. The President o f the Republic is strongly involvedinthe fight against HIV-AIDS, and cabinet
    membersare regularly sensitizedon HIV-AIDS issues. The FirstLady is involved inthe preventionof
    MCT and i s a champion for the fight against HIV-AIDS.

    A high-level HIV-AIDS coordinating body. A NationalHIV-AIDS Council (CNLS) was created
    underthe Presidency ofthe Republic inDecember 2002. The memberswere appointed inSeptember
     2003 and include representatives o f government agencies and civil society organizations. The CNLS i s
     responsible for (i)coordinatingHIV-AIDS policy and strategies; (ii)    pressingthe population and the
     authorities to become proactive inthe fight against HIV-AIDS; and (iii)   mobilizinginternal and
     external resources. Regionaland Local Committees are being established inline with the forthcoming
     decentralization process.

     Government agreement to use appropriate implementation arrangements. The Government has
     established a Secretariat to coordinate preparation and implementation o f the HIV-AIDS program. It
    has agreedto transfer resources directly to civil society organizations and communities. Experience
    with ongoing projects supportedby other donors point to a good level of localparticipation in
     formulating and implementing programs. The Government has agreedto contract out activities when
     appropriate and to use streamlined procedures.

     Government agreement to use andfund multiple implementation agencies. The Government has
     requested key ministries and public enterprises to prepare HIV-AIDS action plans. It has agreedto use
    part o f the grant proceeds to hndactivities undertaken by civil society organizations, including
    religious groups, local associations, and communities and, to a limited extent, by the private sector. It
    has also agreedto enlist the support o f traditional healers by providing themwith adequate support.




                                                      - 1 0 -

Other sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices

Weak institutional capacity and limited partnership with civil society. The intensificationof the
preventioneffort and the introduction o f care will require significant strengtheningand coordination o f the
concemed institution, services, and systems, notably:

            Systems and procedures for channeling funds more efficiently to the grassroots on a large
            scale;
            Developing capacity at the department level through acceleratedtraining o f healthpersonnel in
            the areas o f Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) - especially for pregnant women,
            treatment o f 01s and STIs, procedures to ensure safe blood supplies and the safe handling o f
            medical waste;
            Partnerships within the civil society to strengthenand develop local capacity to deliver
            prevention and care;
            Monitoring and evaluation, which becomes more complex as a result o f greater grassroots
            involvement;
            Operational research and dissemination activities and use of researchresults;
            Procurement o f drugs, testing kits, equipmentand provision of related services to ensure that
            dtpavtement (counties) services are supplied efficiently and on time; and
            Training o f healthpersonal at all levels.

         The Government is conscious o fthese weaknesses, but lacks the necessaryresourcesto address
most o f them.

Prevention at thegrass roots level. Althoughthere i s broad agreementthat prevention as a national
priority, much work is still to be done:


        0   Youth, aged 15 to 19 must be educated about the means o f transmission o f the disease and o f
            protectionand encouraged to postpone first sexual contacts. This group must be reached inthe
            last years o fprimary school, before sexual activity begins.
        0   Truck drivers, oil and forest workers often carry and spreadthe disease. Specific activities
            need to be set up for these personnel.
        0   Commercial sex workers, who are likely to have a highHIV sero-prevalence,will be provided
            with peer education, special STI-HIV preventionmeasuresand condoms (free and/or at the
            least possible cost).
        0   Menandwomen inuniformneedto be informedaboutprevention andhave condoms available
            at all times.

Health sector issues. The present health services need significantly increasedresources to prevent the
system from collapsing. Unfortunately, few partners support development of the sector. However, the
European Union is now developing a healthproject to provide such support, inparticular inthe
pharmaceutical sector. Inparticular, it intends to strengthen the pharmaceutical sector. The present project
will strengthenthe services which are neededto support the fight against HIV-AIDS, such as the blood
transfusion systemand services inhealth facilities, by providing essential drugs, equipment and expertise.
Inaddition, the projectwill buildcapacity andprovide in-service training to health workers.




                                                     -11 -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents (see Annex 2 for adetailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed costbreakdown):

The Project supports the implementation of Congo's HIV-AIDS National Strategic Plan (2003-2006)
through a wide variety o fpublic sector agencies, private and nongovernmental organizations, and
community-based organizations. Its activities have beengrouped infour components:

1. The Public Sector Response, which consists o f the responseo f the Ministry o f Health and o f other
     Ministries;
2. The Civil Society Response, which consists of community-level initiatives and support for a limited
     numbero fprivate sector initiatives (incollaboration with UNDP);
3. Investments in Orphans andother Vulnerable Children; and
4. Management and Coordination, Capacity Building and Monitoring & Evaluation, including a
     sub-component that finances data collection at the national level (a Congo demographic & health
     survey).

The objectives ofthese components and the indicators selectedto measuretheir progress appear inthe
logical framework inAnnex 1o f this PAD and a more detailed description o f the components i s presented
inAnnex 2.

The project preparation team decided to concentrateproject activities, except for bloodtransfusion, on the
dipartements with the highest population -- which also have the highest sero-prevalencerates. In selecting
dipartements, the project team also considered the technical capacity available, indicators o f the likelihood
o f future infection (such as populationmovement) and interventions by other partners. On the basis o f these
criteria, 5 ddpartements were selected: Brazzaville, Kouilou, Niari, Lekoumou and Sangha. The
population o f their capitals covers 82% o f the Congolese population and, according to the recent national
HIV sero-prevalence survey, 91%ofHIV infected persons.

The Congo is planningto submit a new application to the Global Fundfor HIV-AIDS, Tuberculosis, and
Malaria. The project team expects that an application that responds to recommendations of the Fundwill
be approved. This would allow the fight against HIV-AIDS to extend into the remaining dipartements and
to strengthenit inthe five dipartements o fthe project.

COMPONENT 1:PUBLIC SECTORRESPONSE (US $4.7 million)

SubcomponentA: HealthSystem Response(US $2.6 million)

The objective of sub-component A is to improve the health system so that it can respondto medicalaspects
o f the epidemic and preventHIV transmission, particularly through safe blood transfusion and better
bio-security in general. To that end, the Ministryof Health and Population (MOHP) has prepared a
national plan for fightingHIV-AIDS, that complements support from other donors andis basedon plans
developed at the dipartement level. More specifically, sub-component A supports interventions intwo
areas: (i) prevention and (ii) reduction o f the impact o f HIV-AIDS and global care, support and treatment
o f PLWHA.




                                                     -  12-

Prevention. The objective is to improve bio-security and voluntary testing services and to buildcapacity
for prevention. To achieve this, the project team has identifieda program of rehabilitation o f the blood
transfusion system, notably inBrazzaville, Pointe Noire, Dolisie and Impfondo. Rehabilitationhas already
begun, with support from the project preparation facility.

Furthermore, the MOHP has prepared a strategy for reducingHIV infections through the health system
(bio-security). To achieve this, the MOHP will put inplace mechanisms and train healthworkers to avoid
infections among patients and workers, as outlined inthe medical waste managementplan, which i s being
distributedinCongo. Furthermore, this subcomponent supports apreventionprogram, which includes
diagnosis, treatment and preventiono f sexually transmitted infections, condom purchase and distribution.
A study is beingcarried out to determine the best channels for making condoms available, including social
marketing. The Project will also investincapacity development, condoms, and some equipment.

Reduction of the impact and global care, support and treatment ofpeople living with HIV-AIDS
(PLWHA). This provides care and support for PLWHA and others affectedby the pandemic. Italso
supports the expansion and improvement of the program for prevention o f mother to child transmission o f
HIV-AIDS within the context o f global care and treatment o f PLWHA strategy. At present, the
Government and project team are developing such a strategy, which will guide the decision process and
identify the various interventions (medical and non medical) offered at each stage, from the time a person is
diagnosed as HIV sero-positive untilthe full development o f the disease (see annex 2 for details).

To implement the global care and treatment strategy, the Project invests inthe rehabilitation o f healthunits
where counselling and voluntary testingas well as diagnosis andtreatment of HIV/AIDS/STI will take
place, laboratories at the peripheryas well as the central NationalLaboratory for Public Health (in
collaborationwith the Coophtion Franpise). I t also invests intraining of personnel and inpreparation
o f guides for personnel. Once the national strategy towards ARVs i s defined, the subcomponent will
assure that the appropriate mechanisms are put inplace (selection committee, medical committee, ethical
committee) and that the MOHP will name andtrain ARV prescribers. Finally, the project finances drugs
for the treatment o f STIs and opportunistic diseases and their distribution.

Subcomponent B: Other Sectors' Response (US $2.1 million)

The National Strategic Planfor the fight against HIV-AIDS also sets forth the response ofministries other
than the MOHP which have under vulnerable groups and at-risk sectors under their jurisdiction. The
project supports these ministries. Each o f the 12 ministrieshas set up a sectoral HIV-AIDSunit (SHAU)
which includes five members, one o f them an accountant. Each o f these units have terms of reference
describing their responsibilities towards their ministryand their role inthe coordination o f the interventions
to be carried out by their ministry and intheir sector. Inaddition, the terms of reference describe how the
unitwill coordinate its activities with the Permanent Executive Secretariat.The POMdescribe the
procedures to be usedto manage funds which will be allocated by the project and deposited ina bank
account. These SHAU will carry out the sectoral plan developed annually. Each plan identifies the
mandate o f the ministrywith regard to priority groups under itsjurisdiction and define essential activities
both at the central and the decentralized levels. Moreover the sectoral plans fix objectives for coverage o f
vulnerable groups and present budgetsfor achievingthe objectives. Becauseo f their limitedexperience, the
Project will support training for the teams, especially, incommunication for behavior change and peer
education, but also inproject management and basic accounting.

Some ministries are already active inthe fight against HIV-AIDS and their experience i s beingusedto
assist the other ministries inpreparingtheir interventions. The Ministry of Primary and Secondary


                                                     - 1 3 -

Education has beenimplementing an out-of school program inpeer education about sex through the project
known as PRESIEC (prevention o f AIDS in the Congo school). The Ministry o f Social Affairs is active in
the implementationof a pilot project for orphans & other extremely vulnerable children and for PLWHA.
Finally, the Ministry o f Youth & Sports has started a program of social mobilization for out o f school
youth. These ministries will assist with the preparation of the different guides intheir area o f expertise.

COMPONENT 2: CIVIL SOCIETY RESPONSE(US $3.5 million)

This component supports efforts that emerge from civil society to prevent the spreadand to reduce the
impact o f HIV-AIDS. These efforts may come from local institutions such as NGOs, community-based
organizations including faith-based organizations and parent-teacherassociations, as well as trade unions,
and to a degree, the private sector. The component supports implementation o f sub-projects by these civil
society institutions.

The process o f identification o f community-based sub-projects began with dtpavtement level workshops,
where community groups contributedrelevant parts o f their programs to the dtpavtement level operational
plans. Sub-projects are selectedfor financing by an independentcommission attachedto the Permanent
Executive Secretariat o f the CNLS. The commission consists o f representatives o f the sector ministries,
civil society, and donors.

As civil society is weak inthe Congo, local NGOs andcommunity-based organizations receive assistance
inidentifyingtheir priorities, andinmobilizingtheir communities. To provide financing for these activities,
the component includes a Community Response Support Fund. NGOs and community-based organizations
selectedto implement sub-projects also receive training and other capacity building,prior to engaging inthe
implementation. The Second Program for Urban Micro Projects (PMRU) is the only entity in Congo able
to manage such capacity buildingand therefore the Permanent Executive Secretariat is negotiating an
arrangement with this program to capitalize on their positive experience.

The private sector is starting to understand the economic, personal, family, and sectoral impacts ofthe HIV
pandemic on their enterprises.     The Project will provide limited support (including training, especially for
peer education, and provision o f educational materials) to enterprises that request assistance,working in
collaboration with the UNDP.

COMPONENT3: ORPHANS& OTHER EXTREMELY VULNERABLE CHILDREN (US $3.5
million)

HIV-AIDS,civil conflict, andthe decline of the public health systemall contributed to the emergenceofa
large and growing cohort of orphans and other extremely vulnerable children (OVC) inthe Congo. This
component addresses the OVC issue at a meaningful scale by investinginthe health, education and overall
well-beingofthese children.

To achieve this, NGOs with practical experience in serving OVC, such as the national NGO Mtdecins
d'Afrique, conduct household surveys to identify the most vulnerable childrenusingobjective indicators of
their vulnerability interms o f health, education and economic conditions (these are defined inthe OVC
chapter o f the MOP). Then, localNGOs, faith-based organizations or other community-based
organizations deliver basic services to about 8,000 children in five cities and towns. The basic package
consists o f a medical insurance card that provides for visits to health centers and pharmaceuticals, fees for
enrollment inprimary school and the first cycle o f secondary school, along with school uniforms and
textbooks, and psychological support groups. Some older children will receive skills training and some


                                                      -14-

caretakers o f OVC will receive help in startingrevenue-generating projects. These organizations will
receive training and technical support from more experiencedNGOs.

The National Commission on OVC, chairedby a representative ofthe Ministry of Social Affairs, selects
the organizations that implement the component, according to criteria spelled out inthe manual o f
procedures. The same Commission approves the annual plan and budgetfor the component. The Ministry
o f Social Affairs is responsible for monitoring and supervision o f implementation.

COMPONENT 4: MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION, CAPACITY BUILDING, AND
MONITORING & EVALUATION (US $6.3 million)

SubcomponentA: Policy developmentand Management. This subcomponent strengthensthe capacity
o f the Congo to fight against HIV/AIDSby supporting the CNLS and its Permanent Executive Secretariat.
Inparticular, it supports the managementofthe project bythe PermanentExecutive Secretariatofthe
CNLS. Importantly, the Government receives assistance, through this part o f the component, for
contracting out financial management, procurement and data collection for monitoring & evaluation to a
well-respected internationalfiduciary firm, which is being recruitedthrough a competitive process.
Furthermore, this sub-component finances training at different levels and local and international technical
assistance. Finally, this part o f the component supports the up-dating o f the National Strategic Plan and
preparation o f action plans.

SubcomponentB: Capacity Building. This subcomponent supports capacity strengthening and training
(and supply o f relatedequipment and materials) inthe CNLS and its Permanent Executive Secretariat, in
Government ministries, and incivil society. This programunderlies the Government and civil society
responseto HIV-AIDS as well as activities supported under the OVC component.

SubcomponentC: Monitoring& Evaluation. This subcomponent follows aplandevelopedunderthe
Project Preparation Facility. Although this plani s basedon the model established by UNAIDS, it was
simplifiedand includes only indicators that easy to measure and which provide useful information for all
levels, not only for the central level.

Subcomponent I):Data collection at the nationallevel. Becauseof instability and civil conflict, no one
has collected systematic health and demographic data for the past 10years. These data are necessary for
rational planning o f investments inhealth and inthe fight against HIV-AIDS andfor monitoring &
evaluation. Therefore this component will support a Congo demographic and health survey, conducted by
the national statistical authority (CNSEE) ofthe Ministryof Planincollaborationwith the MOHP, the
Permanent Executive Secretariat o f the CNLS, and with the support o f WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA.
Work on planning o f the demographic & health survey i s already underway, with support from the project
preparation facility.




                                                     -15-

                                                                                                           % of
                                                                                                         Bank-
                                                                                                       financing
 1. Public sector response (Health and other ministries)             5.70
 2. Civil society response                                           4.00
 3. Orphans & other extremely vulnerable children.                   4.00
 4. Management and coordination, capacity building,and               6.70                                   33.2
 monitoring & evaluation (including data collection).
 PPF                                                                 1.oo

                                            Total Project Costs     21.40        100.0         19.00       100.0
                                   Total FinancingRequired          21.40        100.0         19.00       100.0

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supportedby the project:
 The National HIV-AIDS Commission (CNLS) is inthe Office of the President and is directly underthe
leadership o f the President because HIV-AIDS is a multi-sectoral, development issue meriting maximum
inter-ministerial coordination. The Project buildscapacity at all levels, and inparticular at the ministerial
and local community levels, and helpsthem address their development challenges, including HIV-AIDS.
The Project enhances the capacity of local associations, local clubs and other NGOs to prepare and
implementprojects. The Project also strengthensthe capacity o fpublic institutions, including the
HIV-AIDS Commission and its secretariat at the national and dkpartement levels. Moreover, the Project
establishes a strong monitoring and evaluation system.

3. Benefits and target population:
 Economic Benefits. Unless checked, the rates o f adult HIV-AIDS infection inthe Congo will lead to a
rapid spreado f the disease, especially among the population o f productive age group, which i s also the
sexually active population. This could have grave macro-economic consequences, particularly as
population's dependency ratio increasesrapidly and savings rates decline. The Project should improve
production by reducingthe frequency o f sick-days o f bothpatients and their families. Inaddition, the
Project supports community-based programs that help individuals affected by HIV-AIDS,including
PLWHA and orphans and thereby reduce the private costs o f caring for HIV-AIDS patients and their
families. Project interventions targeted to orphans, widows, women andpersons inuniform further mitigate
the economic and social impact o f HIV-AIDS. Cost savings are also expected from the decrease in future
needs for treatment, care and support.

Social Benefits. The Project strengthens the capacity o f local communities to provide support to groups
affected by HIV-AIDS. It promotes the establishment o f a social support system with counseling services,
support groups for patients and their families, community clinics and assistanceinrevenue-generating
activities for PLWHA. It assists orphans through education and medical care. This should reduce the
economic and social burden on patients and the affected families.

Institutional Benefits. The Project buildsthe capacity o f key stakeholders, including community groups, to
coordinate, manage, and implementthe proposed interventions. It strengthens civil society: as shown inthe
Chad Population and AIDS Control Project (closed in2000). Inthat project, the training given to small
and weak community-based organizations, such as women's and youth groups, empowered them to carry



                                                    - 1 6 -

out HIV-AIDS preventionand care activities and also strengthenedtheir ability to deal with the authorities
and to organize. Development o f an improvednational system for monitoring HIV-AIDS involves
exchange o f information with sub-regional information systems (such as that of the Congo basin) and
should benefit monitoring & evaluation inother countries.

HealthBenefits. The Project will contribute to lowering the Congo's burden of disease through prevention,
diagnosis and treatment o f sexually transmitted infections and tuberculosis and other opportunistic
diseases. Reducing the number o f HIV-infected newborns will lower the risko f an even higher child
mortality rate. The promotion o f HIV testing should increasethe numbero fpersons who know their HIV
status and are able to protect their partners and to take early treatment to slow the progression o f the
disease.

Target Groups. The entire population o f Congo will benefit from the project. Many project interventions
address the population inthe productive age brackets; prevention efforts inparticular target those
vulnerable to HIV-AIDS such as pregnant women, commercial sex-workers, persons inuniform,
long-distance traders, forestry workers and the young ingeneral. PLWHA will receive improved care and
support, This will benefittheir immediate families, i.e. more than half a million people. A special
component targets orphans and families headedby children.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:

 Proiect coordination. The CNLS will supervise implementation o f the HIV-AIDS National Strategic Plan
and oversee and coordinate actions against HIV-AIDS. Its Permanent Executive Secretariat will carry out
the day-to-day work o f coordinating implementation. The Secretariatwill also assist communities in
preparing o f plans and budgets. Moreover, the Secretariatwill provide over-all policy guidance relating to
managemento fproject funds and is responsible for following upon audit findings andrecommendations.

Incarrying out its work, the Secretariat will follow the Project Operations Manual(POM), which includes
chapters on interventions at the community level andinterventions for orphans and other vulnerable
children. The POM also includes chapters on procurement andon monitoring and evaluation. The
Project's financial management procedures are documented ina chapter on Financial and Accounting
Procedures.

Financial management. Quick delivery o f interventions against HIV-AIDS to a large and varied group o f
beneficiaries requires an effective financial management system. The financial management assessment
stresses several risks and inparticular the lack o f capacity in the planning system, in line ministries, and at
the community level. To mitigate the risks, the Government agreedto outsource financial management and
procurement to a Fiduciary Management Agency (FMA) whose objective is to ensure transparent and
efficient fiduciary management o f IDA funds. To achieve this, the FMA will be a well-established
international professional auditing firm and will be selectedon a competitive basis.

The FMA will establish a Fiduciary Unit that will operate at all levels, under the authority o f the
PermanentExecutive Secretariat. Inaddition to managing the financial, accounting and procurement
process, the FMA will also be in charge of data collection for monitoring & evaluation.

The FMA will supply the core fiduciary staffto the Permanent Executive Secretariat: these will be a Senior
Financial Management Specialist and a Senior Procurement Specialist. The specialists will be familiar
with World Bank's procurement procedures as reflected inthe terms ofreference approved by the Bank.
The FMA will also determine the best accounting staffing arrangement for decentralized coordinatingunits



                                                      - 17-

to enable the FMA to take full responsibility for the fiduciary aspects of the Project.

The Project will commission an annual external financial audit of its transactions and operations and also
an annual external technical audit o f its operations. To this end, the Project will recruit, on terms o f
reference acceptable to IDA,professional and independentexternal auditors to carry out the audits.
Furthermore, an internationalconsultant with significant experience and qualifications will leadthe internal
audit unit.

Disbursement. Three special bank accounts will be opened incommercialbanksacceptableto IDA.
Implementation agencies with decentralized coordination unitswill maintain separatebank accounts to
receive funds transfenedby the Permanent Executive Secretariat.



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
 The "Multi-Country HIV-AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region Project Memorandum o f the
President" explains the reasons for selecting the M A P approach (Report No. 20727 AFR, paragraphs
67-69). Giventhe situationinthe Congo, a MAP seems to be the most effective instrument inthe fight
against HIV-AIDS.

Because the civil conflict worsened the AIDS pandemic, the country team considered inserting a large
HIV-AIDS component into one o f the projects launched after the end o f the civil conflicts. The team did
insert a S1.5 million HIV-AIDS information and sensitization component into the Emergency Rehabilitation
& Reconstruction Project and a $400,000 component for preparingthe national HIV-AIDS strategy and
providing equipment into the Transparency & Governance Capacity BuildingProject. However, the team
didnot insert a large HIV-AIDS component into any of the post-conflict projects because of the complex,
multi-sectoral, nature o fthe struggle against HIV-AIDS. Inaddition, the above-mentioned projects were
already complex and would not have hadthe capacity to implement a further component.

An alternative proposal was to includea HIV-AIDS component inthe next health project. But given the
urgency and magnitude o f the HIV-AIDS problem, the country team decided to prepare a stand-alone
project under the MAP-2 umbrella. The addition o f a robust health component to the MAP will bringthe
health sector to the standard necessary for the fight against HIV-AIDS.

The Government and project team decided to contract out financial management andprocurement to ensure
transparency, as the Government is still strugglingwith financial management and procurement reform.
Some o f the mechanisms applied inother countries, such as central pharmaceutical procurement agencies,
are not functioning in the Congo. Consequently procurement for certain goods such as pharmaceuticals,
reagents, and medical consumables will be done through a systemsimilar to (or jointly with) that o f the
European Union which provides pharmaceuticals inthe regions where it intervenes.




                                                      -18-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                         Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                          Project                  (PSR) Ratings
                                                                     (Bank-finance irojects only)
                                                                    implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                         Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

Road & rail rehabilitation &           Emergency Rehabilitation &          S               S
employment generation. Includes a      Reconstruction Project
HIV-AIDS sensitization component       (Republic o f Congo)

Increasing transparency & reducing     Transparency & Govemance            S               S
corruption. The Project includes a     Capacity BuildingProject
$400,000 component for preparation of (Republic o f Congo)
the national HIV-AIDS program and
for equipment

HIV-AIDS - Multisectoral               Multisect. HIV-AIDSContr. &         S               S
                                       Orphans (Burundi)

HIV-AIDS - Multisectoral               Multi-sectoral HIV-AIDS             S               S
                                       Project (Cameroon)

HIV-AIDS                               HIV/AIDS (Cape Verde)               S                S

HIV-AIDS                               HIV-AIDS (Central African           S                S
                                       Republic)

HIV-AIDS                               HIV-AIDS, Malaria, STD &            S                S
                                       TB Control (Eritrea)

HIV-AIDS    - Multisectoral            Multisectoral HIV-AIDS              S                S
                                       (Ethiopia)

HIV-AIDS                               HIV-AIDS RapidResponse              S               U
                                       (The Gambia)

HIV-AIDS                               AIDS ResponseProj.                  S                S
                                       (GARFUND) (Ghana)

HIV-AIDS - Multisectoral               Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project         S                S
                                       (MAP) (Guinea)

HIV-AIDS                               HIV-AIDS Disaster Resp.             S                U
                                       (Umbrella) (Kenya)'




                                                - 19-

HIV-AIDS- Multisectoral         Multisect.STUHIV-AIDSPrev.          S                 S
                                (Madagascar)

HIV-AIDS- Multisectoral         Multisect. HIV-AIDS Control         S                 S
                                (Mauritania)

HIV-AIDS                        HIV/AIDSResponse Project            S                 S
                                (Mozambique)

HIV-AIDS - Multisectoral        Multisect.STI/HIV-AIDS              S                 S
                                Prog. (Niger)

HIV-AIDS                        HIV-AIDSProg. Dev. (Nigeria)        U                 U

HIV-AIDS - Multisectoral        Multisect. HIV-AIDS (Rwanda)         S                S

HIV-AIDS                        HIV-AIDSPrevent.& Control            S                S
                                (Senegal)

HIV-AIDS                        HIV-AIDSResponse (Sierra             S                S
                                Leone)

HIV-AIDS                        HIV-AIDS (Tanzania)                  S                S

HIV-AIDS                        HIV-AIDS Control (Uganda)            S                S

HIV-AIDS                        HIV-AIDSfor Abidjan-Lagos            S                S
                                Corridor (Five WesternAfrican
                                States)
3ther development agencies
UNICEFandUNDP                   PreventionofAIDS inthe
                                 schools of the Congo

UNDP/WHO/UNICEF/UNFPAi          Inter-AgencyEmergency

UNESCO/WFP/UNHCR                Initiativeto Fightthe Spreadof
                                HIV-AIDS inthe Republic of
                                Congo

LaboratoriesBoehringerIngelheim Preventionofmother to child
                                HIV Transmission
                                                               (Highly Unsatir ICtOry)




                                          - 20 -

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project team was guidedby experience and lessons learned under the first phase o f the Multi-Country
HIV-AIDSProgramfor the Africa Region(MAP-1). These lessonsare summarized inthe Memorandum
and Recommendation o f the President for MAP-2 (Report No. P 7497 AFR of December 20,2001). In
addition, the team drew upon experience from African countries. For example, in Senegal, financial
management and procurement were contracted out to avoid delays andto compensatefor the limited
experience skills o f the local staff. The experience o f Chadheld lessonsfor design o f the community-based
and sectoral interventions, to ensure that the program is truly multi-sectoral and focuses on the
empowerment o f communities inthe fight against HIV-AIDS. Key lessonslearned from the MAP1
experience are the:

   Importance of political leadership and commitment. Strong commitment from political and religious
    leadership inthe country is important for the success o f HIV-AIDS efforts. Inrecent years, the
   President o f the Republic and the Government have demonstrated their support for the fight against
   HIV.

   Needfor a multi-sectoral approach. HIV-AIDS control activities typically start inthe health sector,
   but need to be rapidly expanded to other sectors. However, past experience has demonstrated
    difficulties in implementingprojects across multipleministries. The risks o f institutional conflict will
    be mitigated by coordinationby the CNLS, which includes representativesof the line ministries and is
    underthe Office o fthe President.

   Needfor communi~participation.Localcommunities can play a key role inthe prevention o f
    HIV-AIDS, inthe care o f infected people, andthe support to affected groups such as PLWHA and
    orphans. An HIV-AIDS project must establish mechanisms to promote and support community
    participation.

   MAPprojects tend to lose momentum after Board approval. Particular attention is neededto secure
    the quality of financial managementand community ownership necessaryfor rapiddisbursement of
    funds. To this end, staff of implementing agencies can benefit from early training indisbursement and
    procurement procedures. Fundsavailable under a project preparation facility are beingusedto sensitize
    representatives o f public sector and civil society organizations, to establish program coordination and
    implementation mechanisms, and to train community development agents.

    Importance of monitoring and evaluation. The design o f the monitoring and evaluation system
    should focus on the practicalneeds o f decision makers at the dkpartement and central levels. Baseline
    data are essential for proper monitoring; consequently, the project will contribute to the financing o f a
    demographic & health survey. Planning for this survey has already started. Inaddition, sentinel sites
    will be established and information will be collectedthrough knowledge, attitude, belief and practices
    surveys.

   Stakeholder Consultation. Key stakeholders, particularly those with an important role in
    implementation, shouldbe involvedas early inthe process as possible. Project identification has been
    done inconsultation with NGOs and community-based organizations throughout the country during
    preparation o f the ddpartement level plans. Project design was also done duringpreparation o f the
    National Strategic Plan through consultations with line ministries, UNAIDS and UNAgencies, other
    IDAprojects, and other donor agencies. Three consensus workshops were heldinthe three regions to
    contribute to the finalization o f the National Strategic Plan and inBrazzaville to endorse the plan.



                                                      - 21 -

4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
The political andreligious leadership inCongo have demonstratedincreasedcommitment to the struggle
against HIV-AIDS. The country has establishedthe National AIDS Council (CNLS) underthe Office of
the President and its Permanent Executive Secretariat which has the mandateto implementthe National
Strategic Plan. An extensive consultation process has been carried out to prepare the National Strategic
Plan. A large number o f local NGOs have shown considerable interest in supporting the initiative.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Through the country program, the Bank leads the donor community in assisting Congo inrebuildingits
economy and society after the three rounds o f civil war. Commendable progresshas been made since the
signature of the Armistice in2000. This progress will not be sustained, however, ifthe international
community does not help Congo implement its HIV-AIDS program. Donors express interest insupporting
the program and believe that Bank involvement i s essentialfor its success. More specifically, IDA'Srole i s
to (i) better coordinationamong key stakeholders; (ii)
     ensure                                                      prevent duplication o fefforts; (iii) the
                                                                                                    exploit
complementary aspects of the different projects currently beingfinanced by IDA; and (iv) encourage other
donors to get involved inthe fight against the epidemic and inthe rehabilitationo f the health sector.
Importantly, the Bank is the donor o f last resort, since, at present, the Congo has not yet benefitedfrom
support from the Global Fundand there are no other large-scale donors. So the Bank i s also the main
donor inthe area.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
3 Costbenefit         NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
   Other (specify)
The "Memorandum o f the President for the Multi-Country HIV-AIDS Program for the Africa Region" sets
forth the economic justifications for the Program (Report no. 20727 AFR, paragraphs 76-78). The
Memorandum assesses the overall assessment impact of HIV-AIDS and shows how the pandemic affects
the economy through reductions inlabor's production, domestic savings and economic growth. The MAP
report also includes a cost-benefit analysis o f HIV-AIDSinterventions.

HIV-AIDS extracts a terrible cost interms o f illness and death. The pandemic also imposes immense
economic costs on the public health system and on caretakers o f the ill,which reduces savings. Moreover
HIV-AIDS leads to the loss o f skilledworkers and o f scarce talent, for example, the loss o f well trained
teachers reduces both the supply and quality o f education. Inmany African countries, the pandemic has
reached stage where it has reversed other human development achievements, for example by lowering
expected life spans at birth. The pandemic has contributed to the emergence o f a cohort o f tens o f millions
of orphans. This burdens grandparents and poses questions about the orphans' integration into their
communities and about the financing of their basic health and education.

The Congo is emergingfrom an era of economic mismanagement and three rounds o fa devastating civil
war. The HIV-AIDS epidemic, ifnot curbed, has the potential o f beingeven more destructive inthe
medium-term.




                                                      - 22 -

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
 A large amount o fresourceswill be directedto community interventions. The programwill largely rely on
civil society organizations. The fiscal burdeno f the program is expected to be low and the recurrent costs
will be limited. The recurrent costs will consist mainly of costs related to the coordination o fprogram
implementation, financial management, studies and monitoring and evaluation.

Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact o fthe project i s likely to be small. It is estimated that less than US$4 millionwill be
disbursedannually. As the Congo is ina post-conflict situation, counterpart funds will not be requested.
The actual fiscal impact will be even less thanimpliedabove since much of the project will be directly
channeled to CSOs, NGOs and communities which are requiredto generatetheir own counterpart
contributions equivalent to 10% o f the cost o f their proposals.

3. Technical:
The technical design is basedon lessonsleamedfrom earlier projects. For instance, vulnerable groups will
be clearly identifiedandinformationmessages will be tailoredto their audiences. Lineministries will
prepare their annual action plans inkeepingwith nationaltechnical standards. Moreover, the technical
teams at the national anddkpartement levels will receive training to help themproduce technically sound
and cost effective proposals. Most components will include training programs and capacity building
activities to ensure that staff involvedin implementation have the capacity to deliver the expected services.
Finally, the performance o f technical assistance will be evaluated taking into account their ability to
transfer skills and competence.

The Government is preparing a Project Operations Manual.

To promote effective interventions, a series o f technical guides define the nature o f interventions and set
standards insectoral areas:
    i. Informalpeereducationaboutsex;
    ii.PsychologicalcounselingforHIV-AIDSvoluntarytesting;
    iii.MedicalcareforPLWHA;
    iv. Social communicationmethods;
    v. Social mobilization; and
    vi Socioeconomic support for PLWHA.

4. Institutional:
See section C4 for a detailed description of institutional arrangements.

4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministries and other public agencies as well as civil society organizations and NGOs will implement
(execute) the program with support from the national and dkpartement units o f the PermanentExecutive
Secretariatto the CNLS. The Project Operations Manual will define the roles o f each category o f
executing agency and o f other participants inimplementation. The Manual will set forth procedures for
preparing,reviewing, approving, implementingand supervisingcommunity-based interventionproposals,
sectoral ministryaction plans and OVC interventions.




                                                       - 23 -

4.2 Project management:
Section C4 explains project management indetail. The mainpoint of interest i s that financial management,
procurement, and data collection for monitoring & supervision will be contracted out to a respected
intemational firm.

4.3 Procurement issues:
The World Bank has not carried out a Country Procurement AssessmentReport ( CPAR) inthe Republic
o f Congo for more than twenty years. The Assessment o f the country procurement environment
conducted during the appraisal mission reveals the following weaknesses;(i) the nationalprocurement
regulation is not applied andi s infact outdated ;(ii)    direct contracting for goods and works and sole source
selection for consultants are the rule rather than the exception; (iii)  when a competitiveprocess is used, the
evaluation criteria are rarely clear and most o f time ultimately there are not applied; (iv) corruption is a
matter o f real concern; (v) as there i s no tradition o f sound procurement practices, qualified procurement
specialists are rare.

Inorder to mitigate the risks assessed, it was agreedwith the Government that the Project's procurement
activities will be handledby a consultant management agency. The terms o freference for this assignment
were reviewed and accepted by IDA duringthe appraisal mission. The recruitment o f the FMA that will be
responsible o f the procurement function is a condition of the grant effectiveness.

The adoption of a Project Operations Manual (POM) is also a condition of the grant effectiveness that
will contribute to alleviate the procurement risks. The POM will describe among other things: (i)       the
responsibilities o f the different parties involvedinthe project's procurement activities for each step inthe
process ;(ii) procurement methodto be used dependingon the nature and the contract amount for
               the
goods, works and services to be procured; (iii)      the standardbiddingdocuments to be usedfor NCB,
national shopping and community-based procurement; (iv) the minimumrequirementsto set up for a
satisfactory procurement filing system.

4.4 Financial management issues:
The outsourcing ofthe financial management function to an international FMA will establish a financial
management system for the Project that satisfies the Bank's minimumrequirements under OP/BP 10.02.
This arrangement will provide, with reasonable assurance, accurateand timely information on the status of
the project requiredby IDA. Once put inplace, this arrangement will enable IDA to disburse the Grant on
the basis o f Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) within nine to twelve months after effectiveness, subject
to a Financial Management Assessment satisfactory to IDA and the submission o f satisfactory FMRsfor
the preceding months. The Financial Management Action Plan (Paragraph V: of the Annex 6 (B) of the
PAD) lists the actions requiredbetween now and Grant Effectiveness to facilitate the establishment of this
system.
5. Environmental:                             Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The HIV-AIDS program does not appearto have any major environmental impacts. The only significant
issue i s the handling and disposal o f HIV-AIDS-infectedmaterials. To address this, the Government o f the
Congo prepared a MedicalWaste Management Plan and submittedit to the Bank inmid-December 2003.
The Planhas been clearedby the safeguardsunit (ASPEN) and approvedby the Govemment which is now
distributing it inthe country.



                                                         - 24 -

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The Plan assesses current practices and sets rules for managementof clinicalwaste. The Planalso
provides for training on how to safely dispose o f contaminated bloodand other materials. Health facilities
benefiting from proceeds o f the credit will be requiredto demonstratethat they have safe methods of waste
disposal and that the training providedto their staff includes precautions inhandling sensitive materials.
To realize these objectives, this the planwill take the following steps:
     i. CreatecentersformedicalwastemanagementinBrazzavilleandPointeNoire,whichwillserveall
     healthcenters o f these regions and install appropriate incinerators inthe health facilities supported by
     the Project.
     ii.InformandsensitizethepopulationaboutHIV-AIDSwasteissuesthroughdiversemedia;
     iii.Launchacomprehensivenationaltrainingprogramtargetinghealthcenteradministrativestaff;
     doctors, nurses, mid-wives, technicians working inthe medicalwaste management sectors; and
     iv. Preparelegislation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: December 9, 2003.



5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
Government ministries, participants inthe health system and NGOs were consulted by the consultantswho
prepared the medical waste managementplan for the Government.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
 Regular monitoring will be put inplace to ensurethat the desired standard is maintained. The Direction
Ginirule de la Sunti will ensure monitoring of the plan and will organize field visits and produce activity
reports.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

See paragraph 83 o f the Multi-country HIV/AIDSProgram for the Africa region. The programwill
empower local communities, associations, and civil society organizations to deal more effectively with the
HIVepidemic. The Government has agreedto buildupthe capacity oflocal communities, and change
attitudes from top-down to bottom-up approaches. The program will contribute to this change, which will
have beneficialimpact on other development issues.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating inthe project?
Stakeholdershave beenconsulted systematically inthe preparation o f the dipartement level andNational
HIV-AIDS Strategy and in the preparation o f action plans. Moreover, meetings were held with
representatives o f public agencies and private enterprises and with local associations. The draft POM was
discussedwith representatives o f the civil society and adjusted to take into account their comments, ifneed
be. Importantly, all these actors will be participate inimplementationo f the project.




                                                        - 25 -

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As described above, NGOs and other civil society organizations were engagedinthe formulation ofthe
National HIV-AIDS strategy. Inaddition, NGOs have already beenconsulted and are beinginvolved in
project design and are expectedto play an active role inproject implementation. Their involvement will
consist primarily o f assisting community-based organizations inthe design, implementation and monitoring
o f community-led, community-owned initiatives. Resources will also be providedto NGOs, usingsimple
contractual agreements, to enable them to conduct specific sub-projects on a larger scale and to cover their
participation inevaluation and research.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave been providedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The participatory approach usedinproject preparation will be continued duringproject implementation.
Two beneficiary assessments will be conducted, one before project mid-termand another at the end of the
project (a KABP conducted during preparation will be used as a baseline). The CNLS will provide regular
oversight of the Annual Plan of Action. The Secretariatwill review quarterly progress inmeeting key
indicators.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Indicators o f beneficiary satisfaction are built into the monitoring and evaluation system and will be tracked
duringproject implementation.

7. Safeguard Policies:


     EnvironmentalAssessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                              Yes 0 No
     Natural Habitats (OP4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                   0Yes 0 No
     Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   0Yes      No
     PestManagement (OP4.09)                                                       0Yes 0 No
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 0Yes 0No
     Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  0 Yes 0 No
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         0Yes      NO
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                              0Yes 0 No
     Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  0 Yes 0 No
     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       0Yes 0 No

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
The only potentialenvironmental issue relates to medical waste management. A Medical Waste
Management Plan has been prepared (along standardized guidelines o f other MAPprojects) and has been
approved by the Government which is disseminating it. Training andequipmenthave been included inthe
health sub-component o f the project to ensure that healthpersonnel has the means and knowledge necessary
to ensure safe managementof medical waste.




                                                        - 26 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability ofthe programwill dependon the degree to which the strategy and activities become
fully owned by the various partners at the national, dkpartement and local levels. It will hinge on approval
by the Govemment, improved capacity, at all levels, to develop and implement actionplans andproposals
that are effective inchanging behaviors and providing care and support to affected groups. The
mobilization of local communities around a common threat, regardless o f the affiliations o f its members,
should reinforce the reconciliation efforts undertakenby the Government and enhance the sustainability o f
project interventions. It has been agreedwith the Government that, startingwith year 3 o f the project, it
will include in its budget an increasing share o f the operating costs for the Blood Transfusion System ,the
National Public Health Laboratory and o f the PNLS. Finally, some cost recovery mechanisms will be put
inplace for treatment and the funds collectedwillbeusedto, at renew,at least inpart, the drug supply.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
Pisk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantic Risk), M (Modest isk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
              -
                     Risk                          Risk Rating                   Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political support is not maintainedat all               S           Consultations with the highest level during
levels o f Government to address the                                project preparation.
problem
Communities are not willing to take up the              S           Mobilization of communities to develop
responsibilities o f caring for the illor                           community action plans to combat HIV-AIDS;
dying.                                                              training o f community membersinthe basic
                                                                    health care o f illor dyingpatients, and care for
                                                                    AIDS orphans.
The NGOs and the public sector remains                  M           The Project will provide support (financial and
weak.                                                               technical) bothto NGOs and to the line
                                                                    ministriesinvolved inthe fight against the
                                                                    spread o f HIV-AIDS
Knowledge of safe behavior is not                       S           Repeatedmessages on media, through the
translated into action, especially among                            education system, and inpeer group settings
younger people.
The "reconciliation policy" o f Governmen1              M           Support is beingprovided to Govemment by
i s not effective which causes political                            IDA.
instability
From Components to Outputs
Health services remain impoverishedand                  H           The project will contribute to improvement of
weak                                                                health services necessaryto the fight against
                                                                    HIV-AIDS
 Data collection is not systematic and                  M           Internationalexpertise will be brought into
representative.                                                     design a simple but effective system which can
                                                                    be implemented, andto conduct intensive
                                                                    training o f the users.
Stigma against HIV-AIDS and AIDS                        S           Enlisthelp of community leaders, including
victims impedecommunity action.                                     religious leaders.
Overall Risk Rating                                     S



                                                      - 27 -

The project is ratedas a "substantially risky" project because ofthe social stigma associatedwith
HIV-AIDS, the burden o f poverty faced by the majority o f the population, the weak condition of the health
system and of public entities, the weakness of the NGOs, and politicalinstability. It i s also and foremost a
substantial-risk project because o f the shortage o f qualified human resourcesand the limitedcapacities
available inthe Congo. Finally, NGOs and CBOs are weak, and past experienceshave been mixed. One
way o f mitigating this risk has beento put added emphasis on capacity buildingand strengtheningat the
start o f the project.

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Some religious leadersor parent groups may object to condom promotion and sexual education o f young
people. Inorder to prevent this, the preparation team met with religious groups. The largest religious
group inthe Congo, the Catholic Church, which has an educational system (from preschool to university)
covering the whole country, has formally requestedto be involved inthe fight against HIV-AIDSand has
prepared an action plan to be financed underthe community-intervention component o f the project. With
regard to the parent groups, the action planof the Ministry of Educationhas planned interventions inorder
to minimize this risk.

G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition


1. the Recipient has employed a Fiduciary Management Agency satisfactory to the Association and
established an accounting and financial management system for the Project satisfactory to the Association;

2. the Recipient has adopted the Project Operations Manual inform and substance satisfactory to the
Association; and

3. The Recipient will have amended the CNLS Decree, and any text enacted for its application, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

Financial
The Recipient will have recruited an audit firm to carry out the annual financial audit before October 31,
2004.




                                                       - 28 -

H. Readiness for Implementation
[? 1. a) The engineering designdocumentsfor the first year'sactivities are complete andready for the start
        o fproject implementation.
ixI 1.b) Not applicable.

02. Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivities arecompleteandreadyforthestartof
      project implementation.
E!3. TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
      quality.
E!4. The following itemsare lackingandare discussedunderloanconditions (Section G):

Procurement documents will be prepared by the fiduciary firm which is being recruited. The draft
procurement planhas beenreviewedduringthe negotiations and the final version will be submittedto the
Association before April 15, 2004.

1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E1.Thisprojectcomplieswithallapplicable Bankpolicies.
3 2. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpolicies arerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bankpolicies.




                                                 - 29 -

                                  Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                  CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HlVlAlDS and Health (MAP program)
                                  KeyIndicators
                                       Performance
 Hierarchvof Obiectives
jector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:           Sector1country reports:       [fromGoal to Bank Mission)
mprove human development     Human Development           UNDP annual report             Political commitment to make
ndicatorsby mitigating the   indicators                                                 the HIV-AIDS Committee
ocioeconomic impact of                                                                  function
IIV-AIDS epidemic on
levelopment and on the level
)fpoverty

                            -- HIV new infections                                       - Implementation o f the
                              prevalence adolescent      -- Health Statistical Reports
                                                            Data from Sentinel          National HIV-AIDSStrategic
                            population                   sites-Epidemiological          Plan
                                                         surveillance                   - Political stability


                            -- STI inpregnant women
                               TB prevalence inpregnant
                             women




                                                     - 30 -

                                     KeyIndicators
                                           Performance         Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                         Critical Assumptions
'roject Development             Outcome / Impact               'roject reports:                from Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                      Indicators:
-0 contribute to the change in At the end o f the project      L4BP studies                    'olitical support maintained
behavior o f the Congolese      phase:                                                        it all levels o f Government to
iopulation in order to contain 60 % o f adults 15-49 used                                      upport the . fight against
irreducethe spreado fthe        condom during their last                                       IIV-AIDS
IIV-AIDS epidemic and to        sexual contact with a casual
nitigate its impact on infected partner (baseline 40%)
ndaffected persons.
                                90 % o f people aged 15 to 49  L4BP studies                    bowledge of safe behavior is
                                report knowledge o f vertical                                  ranslated into action
                                transmission (mother to child)
                                (baseline 60%) and 90%                                         Zontinuous political stability
                               mention condom use as a
                               preventive measure (baseline
                               to be known when KABP
                                study results are available)

                                70% o f women attending        halysis o f services Statistics The reconciliation policy o f
                                prenatal consultations accept                                  :he Government is effective
                                voluntary testing for HIV                                      Continuous economic growth
                                (baseline inpilot program P N                                 it 4.8 % pa or more (=
                                >90% )                                                         xojection 2002-206)

                                HIV prevalence among 15-24     'revalence surveys /Sentinel    Knowledge o f safe behavior is
                                year-old pregnant women i s < iites                            translated into action,
                                2% and among 14-19 year old                                    :specially among young
                                men 4.5%; (Baseline men:                                       ?eople
                                2.4% ,baseline women: 1.9%)



                                STI prevalence among           'revalence surveys /Sentinel    Empowerment of women
                               pregnant women does not         iites
                               exceed 2 % (Baseline
                                data:3%).




                                                            -31-

                                        KeyIndicators
                                             Performance            Data CollectionStrategy
  Hierarchyof Objectives
Output from each                  Output Indicators:               Project reports:             from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Responseof the Public
Sector
Component 1A: Health
Sector Response
- the setting up o f the national 13 sentinel sites                MOHiPNLS data                 iealth services are available
sentinel surveillance system      functional (Baseline 0)                                        md improving
and sero-prevalence surveys;

- the strengthening o f the       23 health facilities provide     M O H service statistics      tegions are given resources
health system for the early       quality treatment o f STIs in                                  md authority to use them
detection and treatment o f       project areas (Baseline 0%)                                   >rugsare available at
HIV-AIDS, STIs, and                                                                              iffordable cost
opportunistic infections in       90% o f PLWA tested for TB       MOH service statistics
particular TB;

 - preventiono fmother to         ->80 % o f pregnant mothers      M O H services statistics     iouseholds' purchasing
childtransmission                 tested positive receive PMCT                                   )ewer improves
                                  packet

- Strengthening o f blood         100%o f blood units usedfor      CNLS services statistics
security                          transfusion screened for HIV,

                                  (baseline <loo%)
                                  HpB ,HpC and syphilis


-   Development VTC               23 health facilities provide     Secretariatiproject Progress  'opulation is willing to visit
protocols as well as a            VCT (MoHP) (baseline 4)          reports                       :enters for VCT
significant role in carrying 01.11
VCT activities and follow-up;

- Capacity Buildingand            200 health staff adequately      Secretariatiproject Progress
Training, which would             trained to provide care for      reports
include on-the-job training for sexually transmitted
health personnel, advocacy        infections (STIs) and
                                  opportunistic infections by
                                  2007;
- the procurement o f                                              Secretariatiproject Progress
Zondoms, and a significant        <20% o f sale points didhave     reports
role intheir distribution;        shortage o f condoms inthe
                                  last month
Component 1B: Multi-sector                                         Secretariatiproject Progress  Strong government
Responses(other than              All 12ministries that have       reports                       :ommitment to National
health) for HIV/AIDS              developed HIV-AIDS action                                      strategic Plan continues The
Preventionand Care                plans are implementing these                                   ine ministries have limited
Sectors have developed            for >80%                                                       :apacities to implement
HIViAIDS action Plans and                                          Secretariatiproject Progress  IIV-AIDS
Judgets                           60 civil servants trained as     reports interventions
                                  trainers (non-health)




                                                              - 32 -

Component 2: Support to         Disbursement for community,      jecretariatiproject Progress Communities are willing to
community-based initiatives civil society and private sector leports                          take up the responsibilities
(NGOs, CBOs) and private       initiatives will reach at least                                and Govemment is willing to
sector                          70% o f planned level;                                        transfer resources to the
                                                                                              Communities

IECiBCC strengthened            90% ofpopulation reached         (ABP Surveys                 Capacity o fNGOs and local
                               through HIViAIDS IECiBCC          jecretariatiProject          associations improves Strong
                               radioitelevision programs                                      religious groups commitment
                               (baseline 53.9%)                                               to program continues

Mechanisms inplace to           50% o f communities              jecretariatiproject Progress Stigma against HIV-AIDS
funnel funds to communities     implementing an HIVIAIDS         leports                      victims does not impede
                               preventionicare action plan                                    community action

Communities empowered          2000 o f community workers        jecretariatiproject Progress Govemment does not object to
against HIViAIDS               trained inprevention and care leports                          financing community
                                                                                              activities

Capacity Buildingand                                             'roject reports, workplans
Training, which would
include advocacy and
communication training.

National Strategic Plan and
Annual Action Plans; and
Budgets

Component 3: Orphans and Pilot Project completed                 lata from the M&Eo f
other vulnerable Children       Report for pilot project         mgoing pilot project
Pilot projects results analyzed completed and analyzed
and design o f project                                           ieport on Pilot Project
component.

Delivery o f basic health,      Services deliveredto least       ieports from the FMA,
education, and psychological    7,000 OVC infive cities and      innual technical audit, annua
support services.              towns.                            n-depth survey o f a
                                                                 iub-sample o f OVC
                                                                 jeneficiaries.
Component 4: Data
Collection Policy
Development, capacity
Buildingand Project
Management, including
monitoring and evaluation

Sub-component A: Review        National HIViAIDS Strategic       3NLS Reports
o f Policy orientations Review Plan implemented
o f annual plans and budgets
(sectoral and regional)        CNLS functioning




                                                            - 33 -

iub-component B: Project       Zoordination mechanisms are
oordination, implementation    nplace and function
.ndadministration              ;atisfactorily
                               Satisfactory MIS

                               4t least 80% o f annual plan   3eneficiary Assessments at
                               :xecuted                       nid-term review

iub-componentC:                3y 2005, data for monitoring   lata collection is systematic
donitoring and evaluation      If                             md representative
                               mtcome and impact
                               ndicators                      locuments from                3vil unrest prevent field
                               are collected regularly        :artographers                 vork either for cartography or
                                                              hrvey questionnaires          lata collection
iub-componentD: Data
ollection : CDHS (EDSC)
artography carried out         ,ist o f Census areas drawn
luringproject preparation and andtheir GPS location           lataprovided from survey
ample drawn                                                   luestionnaires

iield work for data collection
md inputtingo f data from
pestionnaires

inalysis o f data and report
roduction
                               Data from surveys
                               :households, women, and
                               nen) are available for
                               :ntering database

                               Demographic and health data
                               ivailable for Congo).




                                                          -34 -

                                Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I        nputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           From Componentsto
Sub-components:            :omponent)                                             )utputs)
Component 1: Public Sector t.7million                  Semi-Annualprojectprogress
Response                                               ReportandFMR
                                                       ExternalAudit
Sub-component 1A: Health    1.6 million
Sector response
Component 1B: Multi-sector 1.1 million                 Semi-Annualprojectprogress
Responses (other than                                  ReportandFMR
health) for HIV/AIDS                                   ExternalAudit
Prevention and Care

Component 2: Support to     3.5 million                Semi-Annualprojectprogress
community-based initiatives                            ReportandFMR
(NGOs, CBOs) and private                               ExternalAudit
sector

Component 3: Orphans and    3.5 million                Semi-Annualproject progress
other vulnerable Children                              Report andFMR
                                                       ExternalAudit

Component 4: Policy         5.3 million                Semi-Annualprojectprogress
Development, capacity                                  Report, CDHS financial
Building and Project                                   report, ExternalAudit
Management, including                                  6 monthly M&E reports
monitoring and evaluation/
Data Collection




                                                   - 35 -

                                   Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                    CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HIVIAIDS and Health (MAP program)

The Project supports the implementationof Congo's HIV-AIDS National Strategic Plan (2003-2006)
through a wide variety o fpublic sector agencies, nongovernmental and private organizations, and
community-based organizations. To simplify project management, the team has grouped project
management into four components:
(i)       The Public Sector Response, which is divided into a sub-component for activities of the Ministry of
Health
           and a sub-component for other ministries;
(ii)      The Civil Societv Response, which supports interventions byNGOs and community-based
organizations and
          some limited support to the private sector (incollaboration with UNDP);
(iii)     Investments in Orphans and other extremely Vulnerable Children (OVC); and
(iv)     Management and Coordination, Capacity Buildingand Monitoring and Evaluation, which includes
a sub-component
           for data collection at the national level -- including financing for the Congo Demographic and
Health Survey (CDHS).

The objectives ofthese components and the indicators oftheir progressappear inthe logical framework in
Annex 1. A more detailed description o f Project components i s presentedinAnnex 2.

The project team decided, to concentrateproject activities, except for bloodtransfusion, on the most
populous dkpartements, which are also the dkpartements with the highest sero-prevalencerates. In
selecting dkpartements, the project team also considered technical capacity, the indicators o f future HIV
infection (such as population movements) and the interventions by other partners. On the basis o f these
criteria, the project team selected5 dkpartements: Brazzaville, Kouilou, Niari, L6koumou and Sangha.
About 82% o f the Congolese population and, according to the recent national HIV sero-prevalence survey,
91% ofHIV infectedpersons reside inthe capitals ofthese dkpartements.

The Congo intendsto modify andresubmit its applicationto the Global Fundfor HIV-AIDS, Tuberculosis
andMalaria. The team expects that the modifiedproposal will be acceptedso that the Congo can extend
the struggle against HIV-AIDSto the remaining dkpartements and reinforceactivities inthe project
dkpartements.

By Component:

Project Component 1. Public Sector Response US$4.70 million
                                                    -
Sub-component A: Health USS2.6 million:
                                -
The National HIV-AIDS Strategic Planassigns a fundamental mission to the Ministryo fHealth and
Population (MOHP) in the national response to HIV-AIDS. To carry out its mission, the MOHP has
prepared a national health operational plan. This project sub-component will help the MOHP accomplish
the mission described inthese plans by strengthening the public health system. To marshal healthresources
rationally, the component stresses coordinationwith activities planned by other donors. IDA resourceswill
then flow, throughthis sub-component, to two types ofpriority interventions:
i. Prevention,and
ii. HIV-AIDSimpactreductionandaglobalapproachtocare,supportandtreatment.




                                                         -36 -

Prevention.       Bio-security and voluntary HIV testing are among the most important parts o f the health
sector response to HIV-AIDS. To establish bio-security, the MOPH and project team identifiedactions to
improve bloodtransfusion services. The component will rehabilitate equipment and support transfusion
networks inthe country. This work has already startedwith financing from the project preparation facility.
Moreover, the component invests in institutional capacity and improves the bio-security o f health services.
Specifically, the component strengthenshygiene andpreventioninclinical settings, for instance, through
steps to reduce and improve the use o f injections inhealth facilities and the systematic collection of needles.
It supports measuresto protect health personnel andto provide emergency therapy incase o fexposureto
blood. Importantly, it also supports the proper elimination o f medical waste.

The Project supports a voluntary HIV testing programand supports development of a nationalpolicy on
voluntary testing. This HIV testingprogram includes counseling units with personnel specially trained in
psycho-social and cultural aspects o f HIV-AIDS. There has already been some progress with regardto
testing: the Bank-supported PURICV project helped set-up two anonymous voluntary testing centers in
Brazzaville. Inthe future, there are plans to integrate counseling and voluntary testinginto selectedhealth
facilities (health centers and treatment centers). And, a guide to counseling and voluntary testingis under
preparation with support from a Japanese grant.

Furthermore, the component strengthensprograms for diagnosis, treatment andprophylaxis o f sexually
transmitted infections, incollaborationwith the WHO, an intervention that has proven efficient inother
African countries (e.g., Tanzania). Inaddition, the component supports the purchase and promotion o f
condoms and the establishment o f a system to distribute condoms, possibly with the aid o f social marketing.
The basic policies and design for the systemwill be drawn from the conclusions and recommendations of
the study o f the condom situationbeing carried out with financing from the Japanese grant.

HIV-AIDS impact reduction and global care, treatment and support. The Project supports care and
treatment for PLWHA and others affected by the pandemic. The Government and the project team are
presentlydeveloping a global strategy for the care, support and treatment which will guide decision making
and identifythe various interventions (medical and anon-medical) offered at each stage o f HIV-AIDS, from
the time aperson is diagnosed as HIV sero-positive untilthe full development ofthe disease. The Project
supports the expansion and improvement o f the programfor preventiono f mother to child transmission o f
HIV-AIDSwithin the context o fthe strategy for the global care and treatment of PLWA.

The medical aspects of support beginwith identifying persons living with HIV and with actions to prevent
and treat opportunistic diseases, including tuberculosis. Mothers and their children form a special category
o f persons living with HIV-AIDS and the strategy is intendedto identify specific actions for their benefit.
Furthermore, health structures supported by the Project care for victims o f sexual violence and the strategy
will identifythe servicesthey will receive.

The strategy will describe the medical procedures (algorithms) for the treatment of opportunist infections
andfor the use of anti-retroviral medications. Itwill set rules for selecting patients and setting
pharmaceutical prices inagreement with the patients' means, it will also define a system for prescription
and deliveryo fARVs andfor delivering the non-medical aspects o f support to these patients. Once the
strategy is defined, the Government may revisit the mechanisms inplace for the management o f treatment
and care (selection, medical, and ethical committees) and identifystaff to be trained to prescribe ARV
(before the ARV can be financed by IDA funds).

Underthe strategy, the component supports investments that strengthenreference laboratories at the
national and the peripheral levels and health facilities responsible for HIV testing, anddiagnosesand


                                                      - 37 -

treatment o f opportunistic infections. Moreover, the component supportstraining of healthpersonnel and
preparation o f guides for healthpersonnel (sexually transmitted infection diagnosis and treatment and
global treatment and support strategy guides as well as for counselling o f PLWHA). Under these
conditions, the Project supports the supply and the distribution o f drugs for STIs, 01s and HIV.

Sub-component B: Other sectors response (excluding Health) US$2.1 million: The National
                                                                      -
HIV-AIDS Strategy calls for actions by ministries -- other than the MOPH -- that are responsible for
vulnerable groups and for sectors at risk. These ministries will receive priority support from the Project.
Eacho f these 12ministries has put inplace a 5-member sectoral team (HIV-AIDSUnit            - SHAU)  including
a focal point and an accountant. Each o f these SHAUs has terms o freference describing their
responsibilities towards their ministryand their role inthe coordinationo f interventions to be carried out by
their ministryandintheir sector. Moreover, the terms of reference describehow the SHAUs will
coordinate its activities with the PermanentExecutive Secretariat. The POM specifies the procedures to be
usedfor the management of funds which will be allocated by the project and depositedina Bank account.

A Ministry'ssectoral planexplains its general responsibilities, or `mandate', toward vulnerable groups
under itsjurisdiction and identifies the actions it plans to take to benefitthe vulnerable group directly (its
`essential' actions), both at the central and ddpartement level. The sectoral plans also identify `supporting
actions', such as training, transport, etc., necessaryto carry out `the essential activities. These teams will
needsupport and training as soon as July 2004, since most have limitedfield experience inareas such as
communication for behavior change and peer education, but also inproject management andaccounting.
Eachplan goes on to identify the ministry's mainpartners among governmental, nongovernmental and
private sector institutions. Turningto operational detail activities, the plans lay down objectives for
coverage o f vulnerable groups (receipt o fbenefits from the essential actions) over the five-year length o f
the Project.

Duringthe first year, support to these ministries concentratesmostly on social communication and
advocacy activities aimed at the vulnerable groups undertheirjurisdiction. However, the Minist2re de la
Force publique (Defense and Interior) will receive additional support to mitigate the impact o f the
HIV-AIDS on PLWHA. The Ministryo f Justice and the Ministryfor the Promotion o f Women will define
the legal framework for the protectiono f human rights, inparticular for the victims o f sexual violence and
o f other discrimination, inaddition to their communicationand advocacy activities. Inaddition, they are
planning to set up an observatory of women's and girls' vulnerability to HIV-AIDS. Furthermore, the
Ministry o f Social Affairs is one of the partners inthe implementationo f the component which will provide
a package o f services to the most vulnerable children. Finally, the Ministry o f Communicationwill
implement the communication strategy developed by the Permanent Executive Secretariatto support the
implementation o f the National Strategic Plan. The Ministrywill play a critical role inpromoting services,
and disseminating educational messages.

To carry out these sectoral responsibilities, the Govemment i s preparing six national guides for essential
activities with support from the Japan Grant. These are: (i)    informal sexual education by peers; (ii)
counseling and psychological support for persons diagnosed with HIV-AIDS; (iii)        medical care for persons
living with HIV-AIDS; (iv) social communication; (v) social mobilization and (vi) the socioeconomic guide
for people affected by HIV-AIDS. The guides will be tested and finalized before the Project is launched.

Several ministrieshave demonstrated what they can achieve intheir sectors. For example, the Ministryo f
Primary and Secondary Education delivers formal and informal peer education on HIV-AIDS. Ina further
example, the Ministry o f Youth and Sports has a special role in social mobilization. These ministriesbear
broad responsibilities for guiding the development o f the guides intheir areas o f experience, setting


                                                      - 38 -

standards and assuring quality control.

Project Component 2. Civil Society Response US$3.50 million
                                                 -
 Sub-componentA: Community-based interventions. The objective ofthe component is to support
efforts o f civil society inthe fight against HIV-AIDS and the protection o f groups renderedvulnerable by
HIV-AIDS. For this purpose, civil society is definedas nationalNGOs, unions, the private sector and
community-based organizations such as churches, parent-teacher associations, traditional leaders and clubs
dedicated to the fight against AIDS. To reach the objective, the component channels financing to civil
society for severaltypes o f interventions. Most importantly, the component supports implementationo f
qualifying micro-projects by national NGOs and community-based organizations. Furthermore, the
component delivers technical support to these nationalNGOs and community-based organizations through
national or intemationalNGOs (which are known, inFrench, as ONGd 'encadrement and inEnglishas
technical assistanceNGOs      - TANGO).    The TANGOs help communities conduct rapidparticipative
assessments, identify their priorities, formulate their micro-projects, set up their own associations or
organizations, train personnel to implement micro-projects and assess the quality o f their activities. The
TANGOs will themselvesreceive some institutional support through training, coaching and capacity
transfer. The objective o f this support is to ensure that, at the endo f the project, most o f the community
micro-projects are implemented by community-based organizations and not by NGOs, who will instead
have an increasing responsibility in training and supervision.

Congolese communities, with the assistanceo f the Permanent Executive secretariat, have already begunto
preparea program ofmicro-projects for financing. The first step was the mobilization o f civil society at
dipartement levelprogramming workshops, where participants contributed their proposals to dipartement
level operational plans. Once the Project becomes effective, micro-projects that appear inthe plan can be
processedand selectedfor financing by a independent committee. This committee will include
representatives of sectors, civil society, and donors. Duringthe first year, the project will finance 42
community micro-projects, inthe 5 dipartements covered by the project, targeted to and incollaboration
with vulnerable groups, ie., young people and inparticular young women and some rural populations such
as the Ba Twa (Pygmies) and forestry industry communities, who are exposed to commercial sex and to
sexual violence. The selection, financing andcontrol processes for the micro-projects will not depend on
government ministries. Instead, an autonomous committee that includes representativeso f civil society, o f
the sectors and the donors will select micro-projects from the portfolio assembledat the annual department
level workshops. Two officials o f the Permanent Executive Secretariat o f the CNLS will administer the
process and monitor the micro-projects.

A consultant has already producedthe first draft of the Chapter ofthe POMconcerning the Proceduresfor
Community Micro-Projects. It lists the criteria for eligibility andthe procedural steps for funding.
Adequate quality control depends on use o f national reference guides for each type o f essential activity.
Thus, there will be one guide per essential activity, which will include information for instructors and for
quality control.

The Community Intervention Specialist o f the Permanent Executive Secretariat o f the CNLS are identifying
the technical support NGOs on a geographic (one per dipwtement)and on a thematic basis (one technical
support NGO per type o f essential activity). These NGOs will deliver a cycle o f training, including
institutional development and project management skills, to civil society organizations, before the launch o f
their micro-projects. The SecondUrbanEnvironment Micro-Projects Program(PMRU II), only entity     the
inCongo with experienceincommunity interventionmanagement, will conduct training that will benefit
NGOs support by the component; it had been agreedthat the PermanentExecutive Secretariat ofthe CNLS
and the PMRU I1should negotiate on a sole source basis a two-year service contract for collaboration with


                                                      - 39  -

regard to training.

Sub-componentB: Private Sector Response: The employer's associations,UNICONGO, has been
working closely with UNDP and the Permanent Executive Secretariatto raise awarenesso f HIV-AIDS
among the private sector employers. The Union des Employeurs de transports en commun, another
private sector association, has been working with the Permanent Executive Secretariat to identifyareas o f
cooperation. Following these contacts, it appears that the initiatives promotedby UNDP with the private
sector has ledto a demand for assistancefor training and the provision o f educational materials. The
private sector is starting to understand the economic, personal, family, and sectoral impacts o f the HIV
pandemic on their enterprises. The Project will provide limitedsupport (including training, especially for
peer education, and provision o f educational materials) to enterprises that request assistance, working in
collaboration with the UNDP.

Project Component 3. Investments in Orphans and other Vulnerable Children US$ 3.50 million
                                                                                -
Evidence for several African countries demonstrates that orphans and children separated from their parents
(such as street children) are more vulnerable than their peers: they are more exposedto malnutrition,
morbidity, lack o fbasic education and abuse. This is not an exclusively humanitarianissue. Becausethe
children may not grow up infamilies, they may not internalize traditional values and may fail to establish
social bonds within their community. This can sometimes lead to negative and even criminal behaviors, and
these outcomesjustify intervention on social grounds. Without adequatehealth care and education, these
children often grow into adults with lower productivity than their peers, and these outcomesjustify
intervention on economic grounds.

Objectives. The Congo's NationalHIV-AIDS Strategy calls for actions to assist orphans and other
vulnerable children (OVC). The OVC component responds to this Strategy, its objectives are to:
0   Reduce the vulnerability o f OVC to HIV, poor health, and loss o f education relative to other Congolese
    children;
0   Improve the integrationo f OVC into families and communities.

Pilot phase. InJuly 2003, the Ministryof Social Affairs and the Bank pre-appraisal mission decided to
launch a pilot project to gain practical knowledge inassisting OVC and to inform preparation of a
larger-scale component. The pilot project serves, at present, about 500 orphans inthe poor Brazzaville
quarterof Moungali. It is being implementedby the local NGO 'African Doctors' (Midecins d 'Afvique)
with support from the project preparation facility. Inaddition, the UNICEF supplies some basic medicines
and the World Food Program supplies food packages. Ministry o f Social Welfare participates in
monitoring and evaluation o f the pilot project. The Brazzaville office o f the UNICEF managesthe funds
and helps supervise the pilot.

Principlesof design of the component. The design ofthe component follows from principles established
by consensus inthe Congo:
i. NondiscriminationregardingHIVstatus,
ii. Targetingofthemostvulnerable,
iii. Deliveryofasmallbutintegratedpackageofservices.

There is a broad consensus against discrimination between orphans from HIV-AIDS and orphans from
other diseases and from war. Furthermore, the Ministry o f Social Affairs and the mission agreedto extend
coverage beyond orphans to children separatedfrom their parents (whether they are indisplaced persons or
refugee camps or are street children), to handicapped children and to albinos. The manual of procedures
for the OVC component specifies the groups covered andthe system for rating vulnerability.


                                                    - 40 -

Moreover, the component targets support to the most vulnerable children because it is however impossible
to intervene with all OVC despite the moral, social and economic justifications. First,the funds available
limitthe number that can receive support. Second, the limitednumber ofpersonnelwith the skills neededto
assist OVC imposes an important constraint. Finally andfollowing the designo f the pilot, the component
invests inthe health, education and psychological and economic well beingo f the most vulnerable orphans
andother extremely vulnerable children.

Planning and budgeting. The Permanent Executive Secretariat o f the CNLS prepares a draft annual plan
and budget for the component. Itthenpresents the draft plan and budget to the National Commission for
OVC, which includes representativeso f the Ministry o f Education and of Health and o f civil society andis
chaired by a representative o f the Ministryof Social Action. The Commission then approves or modifies
the annual planand budget. The Commissionalso selectsthe technical assistance organizations and the
local execution organizations, basedon criteria that appear in the OVC section o f the Project Operations
Manual.

Identification of beneficiaries. The first step inimplementation o f the designis identification o f the
beneficiaries. A technical assistance organization, usually an NGO with experience inassisting children,
identifies the most vulnerable children through a household survey, conducted with a community group, in
each urban quartier. The children are classified according to indicators of their health, psychological and
economic condition. The technical assistanceorganization then computes an index o f vulnerability to
identify the most vulnerable children on an objective basis. The children with the highest index numbers
for vulnerability are covered up to a limitdetermined inthe plan and budget envelope for each urban
quartier. This methodology has beentested successfully by the NGO Mkdecins d 'Afrique and by the
UNICEF.

Services to OVC. One o f the TANGOStrains a local execution organization ineach quartier. The local
execution organization can be national NGOs, faith-based organizations or other community-based
organizations. These execution organizations deliver services to each child, according to their need as
determined by their index o f vulnerability.

All children receive a healthcare card (financed by the Project) that provides for visits to health centers and
for medications. Moreover, all children receive psychological support through participation in-group
meetings (groupe deparoles). The Project enrolls all children o f school age (about 75% o f the OVC) in
primary school or the first cycle o f secondary school. Adolescent orphan heads o f householdsreceive skills
training. Some caretakers receive support ingrant for starting revenue-generating projects.

Supervision. The Social Action Department o f the Ministry o f Social Affairs supervises the technical
support organizations. The regional offices o f the Ministry (Circonscriptions d 'actions sociales) supervise
the execution organizations. The execution organizations collect basic informationon the conditions ofthe
children they assist. The forms for use incollection o f this basic information appear inthe annexes to the
section o f the POM on OVC procedures.

Monitoring. The Circonscriptions d 'actions sociales collect and verify basic information on the condition
o f the children. They then prepare aggregate tables and sendthe information to the fiduciary agency, with
copies to the Social Action Department o f the Ministry o f Social Affairs and the Permanent Executive
Secretariat o f the CNLS. The fiduciary agency compiles the information into analytical tables and a
quarterly report and forwards their report to the National Commission on OVC, with copies to the Ministry
of Social Affairs. the Executive Permanent Secretariat o f the CNLS and the World Bank.


                                                    -41  -

Partnershipwith UNICEF. The UNICEF is a partner inimplementation inmanyways: it supported
development of the design of the component, participated in financial managemento f the pilot phase, and is
a member o f the National Commission on OVC. Moreover, the missionremains interested insupporting
part o f UNICEF's program for protection o f children and women and is exploring the possibility o f an
agreement.

Project Component 4. Management and Coordination, Capacity Building and Monitoring & Evaluation               -
US$6.30 million
This component will strengthen the Congo's capacity to fight the spreado fHIV/AIDS, and, specifically,
will support:
i. ProjectcoordinationandotherresponsibilitiesoftheCNLSanditsPermanentExecutive
Secretariat, including
         updating o f the National HIV-AIDSPlan and preparation of the annual action plans for regions,
sectors and
         for the Project;
ii. Capacitybuildingofpublic,privateandnongovernmentalinstitutions;
iii. MonitoringandEvaluation;and
iv.      Data collection at the national level (CDHS).

Sub-componentA: Management and Coordination The staff ofthe Permanent Executive Secretariatof
the CNLS prepared mucho f the Project. The Government has recruitedmost o f the technical staff o f the
Secretariat. The management unit o f the urban rehabilitationproject (PURICV) manages the funding from
the projectpreparation facilities andmanagesprocurement for the Permanent Executive Secretariat. The
PURICV is recruiting an administrator-accountant (financed under the M A P PPF) to assist them with this
work. Moreover, the PURICV is also advertising the technical assistancepositions internationally. Their
terms o f reference have been discussedwith the PermanentExecutive Secretariat and are satisfactory to
IDA. The Permanent Executive Secretariat is working closely with UNAIDS and with its thematic group.
A consultant haspreparedthe draft Administrative, Financial, and Accounting Procedures Section ofthe
POM. The Sections o f the POM concerning, respectively Community Sub-projects and Orphans'
intervention, are also being finalized. A simple guide for M&E is beingprepared.

This sub-component strengthensthe capacity o f the Congo to fight against HIV-AIDSby supporting the
CNLS and its Permanent Executive Secretariat. Inparticular, it supports the management o f the project by
the PermanentExecutive Secretariat of the CNLS. Importantly, the Government receives assistance,
through this part o f the component, for contracting out financial management, procurement and data
collection for monitoring & evaluation to a well-respected international fiduciary firm, which is being
recruitedthrough a competitive process. Furthermore, this sub-component finances training at different
levels and local and intemational technical assistance. Finally, this part o f the component supports up
dating o f the National Strategic Plan andpreparation of action plans.

The PermanentExecutive Secretariat o fthe CNLS will be responsible for coordinationo fimplementation
o f the Project, for the realization o f annual plans and budgets, andfor contacts with the Government and
with IDA.

Role of the internationalfiduciary management agency. The Government, inconsultation with IDA,has
decided to delegate financial management, procurement, and data collection for monitoring & evaluation to
an internationally respectedfiduciary agency that will be selectedon the basis o f a short-list of firms. A
list of qualified intemational firms i s being established on the basis o f their expressions o f interest; and they


                                                       - 42 -

will be invitedto submit technical andfinancial proposals. The firm selectedwill arrange for audits,
accounting services and business management. The firm will also prepare the procurement documents, at
the request of the PermanentExecutive Secretariat, which will h i s hthe technical specifications. A draft
procurement planthat will form a basis for scheduling and following up on bids was reviewedduring
negotiations and will be submitted to the Association before April 15,2004. Finally, the international
fiduciary firm will assist with data collection for Monitoring and Evaluation. The firm will put inplace a
management information system that has already beentested in similar projects. Itwill report to the
Permanent Executive Secretariat to the CNLS. The responsibilities o f the firm are discussedindetail in
Annex 6-B o f this document.

Sub-componentB: Buildingcapacity to administer and implementthe Project at the centraland
peripherallevels. The scarcity of skilledhuman resources could significantly constrain the success o fthe
Project. The limitednumber o f qualified staff slows work and harms quality inseveral departments o f the
MOHP. That is why the MOHP was the last ministryto complete its action plan, which was o f mixed
quality.

To address this, the mission and the Government agreedthat this component will strengthen the Permanent
Executive Secretariat to the CNLS by recruiting staff fundedthrough the Project on a competitive basis;
moreover, these staff will receive one-year contracts, renewable on the basis o f performance. Furthermore,
the CNLS will recruit two internationaltechnical assistants, a facilitator and a social communication
expert, to provide training and support duringrepeatedquarterly short-term visits. The terms of reference
for the internationaltechnical assistants, now inadvanced drafts, require them to transfer knowledge to
nationals. Therefore each technical assistant will have an official counterpart named or recruitedby the
Congolese authorities. This sub-component supports capacity strengtheningand training (and supply o f
related equipment and materials) inthe CNLS and its Permanent Executive Secretariat,in Government
ministries, and in civil society. This programunderlies the Government and civil society responseto
HIV-AIDS as well as activities supported underthe OVC component. The component may also support
several study tours as part o f this training for selectedmembers o f the CNLS and its Permanent Executive
Secretariat. Separately, the CNLS will recruit several short-term experts for specialized tasks such as
training incounseling or inprescriptions of ARV.

Training of NGOs and Ministries infinancial management. The mission found that many NGOs active
inhealth and inthe fight against HIV-AIDS havepoorly organized accounts. The POMdefines the criteria
for selection o f these NGOs and training sessions will be organized to reinforce their capacity (see the
description o f Component 2 above). Training sessions will also be organized for SHAUs o f technical
ministries and dkpartement offices on the basis o f the findings o f the capacity assessmentthat i s to be
carried-out before Project launch.

Eachparticipating technical ministrywill manage its own advance o fproject funds, deposited in a bank
account, through a qualified accountant who will work closely with the intemational fiduciary firm. The
POM sets the mechanisms for financing and the ceilings for the amount o f funds the ministries can manage.




                                                       - 43 -

Sub-component C: Monitoring & evaluation. The Guide to Monitoring & Evaluation follows the
UNAIDS model guide. The project guide is detailed and comprehensive and should be considered a tool kit
that the Permanent Executive Secretariat and ministries can draw upon. However, the monitoring &
evaluation process for the Congo is simplifiedas follows:

i. Atthefirstlevel:monitoringofUNGASSindicators;
ii.Atthesecondlevel:monitoringofindicatorsproposedfortheProjectatthenationallevel,
    complemented by a surveillance planthat includes sentinel groups, behavior surveys, andbiological
     studies; and
iii.Atthethirdlevel:themonitoring&evaluationsystemforsub-projects,usingindicatorsspecially
    definedfor each activity. (Several key indicators of sub-projects will be selectedfor use as indicator of
    the project at the national level).

The indicators at the first level and secondlevel have beenidentified.

To put the monitoring & evaluation system into practice, the mission developed an algorithm showing the
circulation o f information. The Permanent Executive Secretariat will promote feed back by creating a data
bank that will be easily accessible to all participants. A simplifiedguide, inpreparation, will describe the
data collection and distribution systemindetail.

The CNLS will constitute a committee of experts to overseedevelopment ofthe monitoring & evaluation
system. Once the system is developed, this committee could continue to assistwith improvingthe
monitoring & evaluation system. The evaluationexpert at the Permanent Executive Secretariat will
coordinate with the committee of experts on monitoring & evaluation, which will include representativeso f
the WHO and the UNICEF. Monitoringo f these three levels of indicators will essentially be the
responsibility o f the monitoring & evaluation specialist o f the PermanentExecutive Secretary. However,
an agent o f the international fiduciary firm will be responsible for collection o f information on project
activities and on project finances and for control o f their quality. The agent will not be responsible for
in-depthanalysis ofproject activitiesbut rather for enteringinformationon the activities into electronic
data banks.

Surveillance of thepandemic and monitoring & evaluation of the Health sub-component. Untilnow,
surveillance o f the pandemic has not been done ina systematic manner. Therefore a surveillance system
should be put inplace as soon as possible. Several studies have been or being carried out in order to
provide base line data. On the basis o f these data, a comprehensive surveillance plani s being developed for
the period of the project.

The capacities of nationalagencies that should contribute the studies and monitoring & evaluation systems
are insufficient. Consequently, the Project will strengthen the capacity of the National Public Health
Laboratory, as well as those o f the Studies & Planning Division (Direction des Etudes et de la
Plnnzjication) o f the MOHP, and o f the National Statistical and Economic Studies Center o f the Ministry
o f Plan, by providing equipment, in-service training o f their personnel inqualitative and quantitative
research. Inorder that researchon HIV-AIDS not be interrupted, it will be necessaryto pay particular
attention to bio-medical equipmentmaintenance.

The Project will buildup a simple system for monitoring and evaluation o f activities carried out by the
HIV-AIDS program o f the MOHP. This system will attempt to compensate for weaknesses o f the Studies
and PlanningDirection. Monitoringdepends on a well-functioning epidemiological surveillance system. To
improve this system, the sub-component will invest inthe actual network o f sentinel sites, incollaboration


                                                       - 44 -

with WHO. The health component will also strengthenthe network o f peripheral laboratories and the
capacities o f the National Public Health Laboratory, complementing expected support from the French
Cooperation Agency. Inaddition, it will support specific researchstudies.

Sub-component D: Data collection at the national level: Financing of the Congo Demographic and
Health Survey (CDHS)

The Government has not collected systematic, nation-wide and reliable information on the populationand
on health for about 10 years becauseo f recurrent conflict and instability. These data are necessaryfor
rational planning o f investments inhealth and inthe fight against HIV-AIDS and for monitoring &
evaluation. Therefore this component will support a Congo demographic and health survey (CDHS), to be
conductedby the national statistical authority (CentreNational de la Statistique et des Etudes
Economiques, CNSEE) o f the Ministryo f Plan incollaboration with the MOHP, the Permanent Executive
Secretariat o f the CNLS, and with the support o f WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA.

Responsibilities for implementation. The CNSEE will collaborate, at each stage o f the survey, with
national and internationalinstitutions engagedinpopulation and healthissues, and inparticular, the
MinistryofHealthandPopulation, the PermanentExecutive Secretariatofthe CNLS, the World Health
Organization, the UNFPA andthe UNICEF. These organizations will convene in a consultative committee,
chaired by the CNSEE. The committee will meet regularly duringthe preparation, collection and
processing o f the demographic and health survey. Its duties will be to review updates on progress of the
survey and also to respond to technical questions and propose solutions to logistics problems.

The CNSEE and its partners have already begunpreparations for the survey. A planning mission visited
the Congo with support from the first project preparation facility. The second facility supports mapping
and selection o f the sample so that data collection can beginas soon as the Projectbecomes effective.

Parts of the DHS survey. The survey will consist o f the two basic questionnaires: a household survey and
a women's survey, as well as a male survey questionnaire:

    Household survey. The household survey part of the DHS will collect the list o f household members
    and information on their socio-demographic characteristics. This part o f the survey will also collect
    information on housingthat will permitcalculation o f the poverty index, usingthe methods developed
    for the World Bank by ORC Macro. Moreover, the household survey will collect information through
    tests and measures. First, the interviewers will determine the nutritional condition o f women aged 15 to
    19 and of children under 5 through anthropometric measurementof height and weight. Second, the
    interviewers will test the salt usedin order to estimate the proportion o f women and children living in
    householdsthat use sufficiently iodized salt.

    Women's survey. The women's survey part o f the DHS will cover women aged 15 to 49. It collects
    basic information on women's social and demographic characteristics. With regardto maternal health,
    the women's survey will collect information on reproduction, family planning and pre- andpost-natal
    care, childbirth andbreast-feeding. It will also collect information on marriage and sexual activity and
    preferencesfor fertility. The survey will collect information on vaccination and infant and child health.
    Finally it will collect information on the characteristics o f husbands, professional activities o f the
    interviewedwomen and on HIV-AIDSand other sexually transmitted diseases.

    Once this information is collected it will be possible to estimatebasic indicators o f human development,
    inparticular, all indicatorsbasedongeneral population dataand definedby UNAIDS and UNGASS.


                                                     - 45 -

These include fertility rates, infant and child mortality rates and the statistical determinants o f fertility.
The women's survey should also reveal contraceptive use levels, attitudes and practices that influence
the spreado f HIV-AIDS such as rates o f condom use andknowledge about HIV-AIDS and other
sexually transmitted infections. Finally, the data will yield information for an assessment o f women
andchildren's health, and nutrition and breast-feeding practices.

HIV-AIDS survey of men. There will be an individual HIV-AIDS survey ofmenaged 15 to 59. This
will require interviews with only half the meninhouseholds inthe sample. The proposed questionnaire
is a shortenedversion o f the women's questionnaire. It includes only 5 sections: on social and
demographic characteristics; reproduction questions and inparticular questions about the number o f
children desired; marriage and sexual activity; adult and maternal morality; andHIV-AIDS and
sexually transmitted infections.

Possible additional questionnaires. Ifsufficient funds are available, the consultative committee may
add additional questionnaires. For example, the test for anemia could be addedto the household
survey. Inthe questionnaire for individual women, the committee could add the module on malaria and
on adult and maternal mortality. However the survey will not include a test for HIV-AIDSfor each
person interviewed becausean HIV-AIDS sero-prevalence study for the general population is now
under way, with support from the Japanese Grant.




                                                 - 46 -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                     CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HlVlAlDS and Health (MAP program)

                                                                                                    Local               .Foreign                     Total
                         Project Cost By Component                                                US $million           US $million             US $million
Public Sector Response                                                                                3.41                    0.71                     4.12
Civil SocietyResponse                                                                                 2.85                    0.50                     3.35
Orphans & Other Vulnerable Children                                                                   2.90                    0.50                     3.40
Policy Development, Capacity Building, Project Management                                             0.84                    5.13                     5.97
and Monitoring& Evaluation
PPF                                                                                                   0.00                    1.oo                     1.oo
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                  10.00                    7.84                    17.84
 Physical Contingencies                                                                               0.44                    0.14                     0.58
 Price Contingencies                                                                                  0.44                    0.14                     0.58
                                          Total ProjectCosts'                                        10.88                    8.12                    19.00
                                  Total FinancingRequired                                            10.88                    8.12                    19.00

March 5, 2004 provides for an exemptiono f taxes and custom duties levied inthe territory ofthe Recipient
on works, goods and services for this Project. Inthe event of any changemade to said letter which has the
effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such works, goods and services, the percentagesreferredto
above shall be decreasedinaccordancewith the provisions of Section 5.08 ofthe GeneralConditions.
   I
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes. is 21.4 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 88.79% of total
   project cost net of taxes.




                                                                       - 47 -

                                Annex 4: Supervision Framework
            CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HIVIAIDS and Health (MAP program)

The project will require intensive supervision, givenits multisectoraland multi-agencynature, and
large span o f activities. Moreover, some o f the actors to be involved(Le. associations o f PLWHA,
local NGOs, and CBOs) have relatively limitedexperiencewith Bank operations and have limited
management capacities ingeneral.

Some o f the skills requiredfor supervision will be neededon a regularbasis while others will be
requiredon an ad-hoc basis. Therefore, a core supervision team will be established, to be
complemented by other technical specialists, as agreedupon with the Beneficiaq. The core team
would carry out annually, on average, 2 three-week supervision missions comprised o f approximately 5
or 6 staff. Other technical experts would provide support periodically, as required. Duringthe first
year, a heavier supervision program would be expected, with 3 missions, tapering down over
subsequentyears.

IDA'Ssupervision task will be facilitatedbythe continuous monitoring ofthe Fiduciary Management
Agency, which will be responsible for financial andprocurement management, the regular mission o f
the technical assistants (international Public Health Specialist and the Social Communication
Specialist) who will visit the Congo quarterly.

The core team wouldbe comprised ofthe following experts from headquartersand from the Burundi
and DRC country offices: (i)task team leader with experience inhealthprojects, with particular
                                a
focus on HIV-AIDS operations (HQ); (ii)       an economist in charge o f the OVC component (HQ); (iii)
                                                                                                     a
financial management specialist who would review adherenceto Bank procedures with regardto
fiduciary responsibilities (DRC CO); and (iv) a procurementhmplementationspecialist who would be
responsible for the procurement, implementation, and institutional issues (Burundi CO). Inaddition, a
consultant-specialist incommunity-based and multi-sectoral intervention would be part o f the team.

The core team would be complemented with other technical experts inthe following areas: (a) an M&E
Specialist (2 visits the first year, one in the subsequentyears unless there are major problems with
M&E);(b) sector specialists (e.g., environmental specialist, ruraldevelopment, education, transport),
when necessaryto review progress inthe respective sector; (c) a communications specialist to review
BCC/social communication interventions; (d) social scientists to explore the social aspects o f
HIV/AIDS; andor (e) economists to assist inpriority settingand inmonitoring the impact of the
epidemic on households.

The core team could also include representativesfrom development partners active in the control o f
HIV-AIDS-STI and tuberculosis and present inthe Congo, e.g., UNICEF, WHO, UNDP, and WFP.
As with project preparation, partners from the extendedUNAIDS Thematic Group wouldbe invitedto
participate insupervision missions to ensure complementarity of interventions, buildstrong
partnerships, and facilitate a cross-fertilization o f experiences. Duringpreparation, WHO, UNICEF,
UNDP, and the French Cooperation were involved inproject preparation, while all other at-large
UNAIDS partners were involved inspecific discussions as well as during regular mission briefingsand
debriefings.

The core team will be primarily responsible for the review of: (i)   quality o fproject managementand
implementation, and adherenceto the Project ImplementationManual (PIM); (ii)         monitoring and



                                                  - 48 -

    evaluation; (iii) financial management, including FMR (after 0 or 12months), performance,
    procurement procedures, environmental safeguards, and review o f technical and financial audits; (iv)
    spot-check quality and relevance o f sub-projects financed under the Community Fundcomponent; and
    (v) progress on the development and implementation of sectoral plans.

    The whole core team would visit the country at least twice the first year, andonce insubsequent years,
    either by themselves or accompaniedby other specialists. Inaddition, some o f the memberso f the
    country team may visit the Congo one additionaltime to ensure a good start for the project. For the
    first year, a total of42 staff weeks are planned, ofwhich 15 headquarter staff, 10 for country office
    staff. 17 weeks will be for consultants.

    The team has proposedthe followingbreakdown of staff weeks:

     SupervisionPlanning

 Staff/Consultants                            Consultant Staff    Numberof             Estimated Total
                                              Travel for First     Staffmeeks for the Labor Budget
                                              Year                 First Year          for first Year




 co
 Procurement Specialist BurundiCO            2 trips x 2 wks      16
                                                                  5                    2,500
ICommunity-based and multi-sectoral           3 trips x 2 wks
 Intervention Soecialist                                                              /2O,OO0
 Public Health /HIV/AIDS Specialist           3 trips x 2 wks      6                    16,000
 M&ESpecialist                                2 trips x 2 wks      5                   20,000
 Total                                          About $150,000       42                 119,500



    The total supervision budget for the first year would be about US$269,500. It should benoted that
    M&Emaybe financed from the Gamet budgetas it was duringpreparation. Inthat casethebudgetfor
    supervision would be about $40,000 lower. The TTL will also try to obtain Trust Fundfunds to
    finance some o f the consultants.

    Expected yearly supervision missionsfor the other years:

                  a    End-of-year progressreview missionto take stock o f what has beenaccomplished and
                       to decide on next year's action plan (annual review). These missions should be ledby
                       the government and heldjointly with other donors.
                  a    About six months after the end-of-year progress review mission, a regular supervision
                       mission.
                  a    A mid-termreview will be carriedout about 30months after effectiveness.

Project progress reviews will be heldannually at the end o f the calendar year to assess the performance o f
the project andits contribution to the nationaleffort to reduce the spreadandimpact o fHIV-AIDS. They
will be heldjointly with the UNAIDS Thematic Group. Monitoring andEvaluationinformation and


                                                       - 49 -

conclusions o f site visits conducted by the supervision team will form the basis o f the discussions.

Progressreviewswould include a presentation by the PermanentExecutive Secretariat on progress
attained, problems encountered, and future steps. A progress report will be prepared for annual review
attendees to be distributed at least one week prior to the meeting. The presentation will employ data derived
from the project M&E system and observations made during site visits. Other information available at the
time, including studies conducted by the project or other donors, will be usedto complement M&Edata.
Progressreviews will culminate instakeholder meetings that will form a basis for planning for the next
year. These meetings will be usedto share information on trends and best practices andto provide general
technical information.

Regular supervision mission will be concluded by a debriefing to which all the stakeholderswill be invited.
The mid-termreview will be precededby abeneficiary assessmentand an evaluation o fthe project
performance done by an outside consultant.




                                                     - 50 -

                               Annex 5: Financial Summary
                 CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HIVIAIDS and Health (MAP program)
                                    Years Ending
                                       June 30
                                               IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                         1Year1 I Year2    I Year3    1 Year4  I Year5  IYear6  I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs           2.7       4.3        4.2       3.8      2.5     0.0      0.0
 Recurrent Costs             0.8       0.7        1.o       0.8      0.6     0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          3.5       5.0        5.2       4.6      3.1     0.0      0.0
Total Financing              3.5       5.0        5.2       4.6      3.1     0.0      0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                  2.9       4.4        4.7       4.2      2.8    0.0       0.0
   Government                0.5       0.5        0.4       0.3      0.3    0.0       0.0
       Central               0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
       Provincial            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers             0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1      0.0    0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      3.5       5.0        5.2       4.6      3.1    0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:




                                          - 51 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                 CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HlVlAlDS and Health (MAP program)

Procurement
General. The World Bank has not carried out a Country Procurement Assessment Report inthe Republic
o f Congo for more than twenty years. The appraisal mission assessedthe country procurement
environment and found the following major weaknesses:
i. Nationalprocurementregulationsarenotappliedandareoutdated;
ii. Directcontractingforgoodsandworksandsolesourceselectionforconsultantsaretherule
...      rather than the exception;
111.     When a competitive processis used, the evaluation criteria are rarely clear and are usually
         not applied;
iv.      As there is no tradition of soundprocurement practices, qualified procurement specialists
         are rare on the labor market; and
v.       Corruption is a matter for concern.

The absence o f a modem procurement code is one o f the main weaknesses o f the Congo's legal and
institutional framework. Early in2001, the Government started, on its own initiative, to review and amend
the procurement code. The Government solicitedand obtained comments and guidance from the World
Bank about the first version o f the revised procurement code. However, it seems that this reform is blocked
since there has been no evidence o f progress over the last twelve months. The dialogue with authorities on
this subject still continues. The Government can receive assistanceto pursue and complete the revisionof
the procurement code through the Transparency and Governance Capacity BuildingProject (Cr. 3600 Cob)
since this activity meets the objectives o f the Project.

Guidelines.Procurement of goods and works requiredfor the Project andto be financed from the proceeds
o f the grant shall be governed by the Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
publishedinJanuary 1995 andrevisedinJanuary and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
National Competitive Biddingwill be carried out inaccordancewith the procedures to be spelled out inthe
Project Operations Manual (POM) acceptable to IDA. The procurement procedures inthe manual will
ensure economy, efficiency transparency and fair participation. More specifically these procedures will be
ensure that: (i) will be advertised innational newspaperswith wide circulation; (ii) bid document
                 bids                                                                      the
clearly explains the bidevaluation and award criteria; (iii)  bidders are given adequateresponsetime
(minimumfour weeks) to prepare and submitbids: (iv) bids will be awardedto the lowest evaluated bidder
and not arbitrarily; (vi) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, will not be precluded from participation
and; (vii) no domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic manufactures and suppliers.

Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procuredinaccordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers (January 1997, revisedin September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002). The World Bank's Standard Request For Proposals will be used and forms
o f contracts as needed (lump sum, time-based and/or simplified contract for short-term assignment and
individual consultants) as well as the sample evaluation report for the selection o f consultants.

Procurement for community based sub-projects will conform to paragraph 3.15 o f the bank's procurement
guidelines (Community ParticipationinProcurement) and the Bank's Guidelinesf i r Simplfled
Procurement and Disbursementfor Communip-Based Investments (February 1998). The POM will
describe the specific procurement arrangement o f the community-based component.




                                                       - 52 -

Advertising. A General Procurement Notice will bepreparedand issueduponboard approval inthe United
Nations Development Business and inthe Development Gateway Market, listing all goods contracts above
US$150,000 equivalent and contracts for consultant services above US$ 100,000 equivalent to obtain
expressionso f interest andto identify solid candidate firms from which to compile a short list. Sufficient
time, not less than fourteen days, will be allowed before preparing the short-list. The general procurement
notice will be updated on a yearly basis as long as International Competitive Bidding(ICB) for goods
contracts and consultant contracts exceeding the above-mentioned amount are foreseen inthe annual
procurement plan. Specific Procurement Notices will be requiredfor all goods contracts procuredby ICB
and National Competitive Bidding(NCB). Specific Procurement Notices will be publishedinnational
newspapers o f wide circulation and inthe UNBDonline and the Development Gateway Market Portal
(dgmarket.com) for large contracts (ICB).

Procurementcapacity. The assessment ofthe procurement environment conducted duringproject
preparation indicates that this is a high-risk project. Inorder to mitigate the risks, a consulting firm, which
will be referred to hereafter as the Fiduciary Management Agency (FMA)will handle the Project's
procurement, disbursementand financial management functions. The recruitmentprocess o f the FMA is
underway. The selection process is expectedto be completedby the endof June 2004.

At this stage no procurement capacity assessmentof the implementingagency canbe done since the FMA
i s not inplace. The short listed firms for this assignment are beingevaluated, among other things, on their
relevant experience and on the proven records of their key staff inprocurement. Therefore, the project
team anticipates that the FMA eventually selectedat the endo f the process will be fully equippedto carry
out this assignment. A complete procurement capacity assessment o f the FMA will be camedout within
six months after the Project's effectiveness.

The secondmainmeasureaimed at reducing the procurement risk is the adoption of a satisfactory POM.
The procurement sections ofthis document will present the following: (i) responsibilities of the different
                                                                             the
parties involved inthe Project's procurement activities for each step o f the process; (ii)the procurement
methods to be useddependingon the nature andthe contract amount for goods, works and services to be
procured; (iii) standardbiddingdocuments to be used for NCB, national shopping and community
                the
basedprocurement (iv) the minimumrequirements to set up for a satisfactory procurement filing system.

Inaddition to the above-mentioned measures,procurement training activities will be conductedthrough
realizationo f the Project. Thus, the FMA will define a procurement-training program and will carry out a
two-day procurement training session for the dipartement level NGOs that will provide support and
guidance to community-based organizations. Regional procurement experts that are recruited on a
competitive basis and financed by the Project, will conduct subsequent training activities. During
implementation, support missionprocurement clinics will be organized. The topics o f the clinics will be
derived from the findings o f post procurement reviews and the findings o f the annual technical audit.

ProcurementPlan. The Borrower prepared a draft procurement plan which was reviewedduring
Negotiations; the plan will be finalized by April 15,2004. By November 1o f each year, a procurement
plan for the next year will be submittedby the CNLS for IDA prior review. The procurement planwill be
updated at least once a year and the progress report forwarded to IDA.

This planexcludes sub-projects to be implementedby NGOs, civil society organizations and private sector
entities. Their demand-driven nature makes it difficult to plan the activities o f this component. However,
the appraisal document o feach approved sub-project will include a procurement schedule for completing
the sub-project.


                                                       - 53 -

Procurementimplementationarrangements.The overall coordinationofprocurement will be handledby
the Permanent Executive Secretariatofthe CNLS inclose collaboration with line ministriesat nationaland
dkpartement levels and two nongovernmental organizations one for HIV-AIDS community-based
                                                              -
activities and one for the Orphans & Other Vulnerable Children component - that will be recruitedineach
one o fthe five dkpartements o f the country covered by the project, i.e. ten Technical Assistance NGOs
(TANGOs) intotal. As already stateda FMA will handle the Project's procurement activities for the
Permanent Executive Secretariat.

For the public sector responseand inparticular its health component, the Permanent Executive Secretariat,
through the FMA, will procure all the goods and works requiredunder the various procurement methods
foreseeninthe development grant agreement. Lineministries will conduct very few procurement activities,
either at the national or regional levels. Instead, the Permanent Executive Secretariatwill procure all the
items contained intheir annual work program that can be grouped and purchased inbulk. Goods and
various items that cannot be grouped inpackages should not exceedUS$5,000 per annual work program:
these will consist o fper diems and transportation costs when applicable, as well as small office supplies.
The POMwill indicate the procurement proceduresto be used: mainly local shopping and all the
requirements conceming the documentation.

For the civil society response, the procurement activities to be conducted by the NGOs at the dkpartement
level should be very limited. The equipment requiredfor the ten TANGOs that will cover the five
dkpartements o f the country assistedby the Project will be grouped into a bulk order and procuredby the
Permanent Executive Secretariat. Goods and various items that cannot be grouped into packageswill be
procured by the TANGOs themselves following the procurement procedures spelled out inthe POM,
mainly local shopping and direct contracting. The total value o f the itemsto be procured by TANGO
themselves shouldnot exceed USS 5,000 per year per NGO. Inthe same way procurement for
community-based organizations for commonly usedgoods and items like condoms, printedand other
materials for information and education activities will be made available by the Permanent Executive
Secretariat. The remaining goods and items derivedfrom their sub-project that cannot be grouped into
packages will be procuredby the community-based organization themselves. The total annual value o f the
items to be procuredby each community-based organization should not exceed US$2,500. The POM will
indicate the procurement procedures to be usedmainly local shopping and all the requirementsconceming
the documentation.

Procurement Methods. Civil works. There will be very few civil works contracts and the value ofthe
contracts will be relatively low. Hence, no ICB and no NCB are foreseen but this event cannot be
excluded. ICB procedures will be applied for procurement o f civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent o f US$ 250,000. Civil works estimated to cost between$US 30,000 and $US 500,000 may be
awarded by NCB inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 o f the Guidelines.

The number of small civil works will also be limited:the total cost of civil works is estimated at U S S
60,000; these will consist of rehabilitation and small extensions of existing infrastructure such as health
centers, youth facilities or community meetingfacilities. These small works, estimated to cost less than
USS 30,000 equivalent per contract, will be procuredon the basis o f quotations obtained from at least three
qualified contractors inresponseto a written invitation. The written invitation will include a description o f
the works, basic technical specifications, the completion date and ifnecessarythe plano fthe works. The
contract shall be awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest quotationprovided that the bidi s
substantially responsive to the conditions specified inthe written invitation. A simple format o f the
invitation to quote with all the subsequentdocuments (instruction to bidders,model of contract etc.) will


                                                      - 54 -

appear inthe POM.

Goods. The total cost o f goods contracts i s estimated at US$ 6.39 million equivalent for the Project. Itwill
include items such as pharmaceutical products, HIV test kits and other reagents, condoms, laboratory
equipment, vehicles, computers, office equipment, furniture, information, education & communication
materials and accessories.To the extent practicable, non-medical items will be grouped into packages
estimated to cost US$ 150,000 equivalent or more and will be procuredthrough International Competitive
Bidding procedures, using IDA Standard BiddingDocuments.
Contracts for drugs, reagents, medical and laboratory equipmentestimated to cost less than US$-lOO,OOO
equivalent may be procuredthrough International Shopping procedures as described inparagraph 3.5 and
3.6 o f the Guidelines and June 8,2000 Memorandum-"Guidance Procurement Note on Handling
Procurement under Shopping Method"- issuedby the Bank. This methodwill be used inthe cases where
there are only a few known suppliers and providedthat use of the method is indicated inthe annual
procurement planreviewedby the Bank.

Goods apart from medical items estimated to cost less than US$ 150,000 equivalent will be procured
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) usingprocedures acceptableto IDA. Apart from medical
items, procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
  specification commodities for individualcontracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent, will
be procuredunderNational Shopping or International Shopping procedures as described inparagraph 3.5
and3.6 of the Guidelinesand June 8,2000 Memorandum "Guidance Procurement Note on Handling
  Procurement under Shopping Method" issued by the Bank.

Goods, including drugs and medical supplies may be procuredthrough UnitedNations Agencies (IAPSO,
  UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO) inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 o f the Guidelines.

  Goods which mustbe purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or, are
  o f a proprietary nature may, with IDA'Sprior agreement, be procuredby direct contracting inaccordance
with theprovisions ofparagraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

  Communi* basedprocurement. The type o f sub-projects to be financed undercomponent 2 is defined in
  the POM. However it is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods, small works, and services to be
procuredunder these activities due to their demand-driven nature. Fundingfor these activities will be inthe
  form o f grants. The contract will be procuredfollowing simplifiedprocurement procedures as described in
  the POM. The tools and procedures to be usedfor community-based procurement will be basedon the
  Bank Guidelines for SimplifiedProcurement and Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments
  (February 1998).

-.                                   Consulting services financed under the credit will be for HIV-AIDS
training, information, education and communication, applied research, financial management, monitoring
  and evaluation, information dissemination, accounting; and strengthening o f the institutional and technical
  capacities. Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$ 100,000 or more, will be procured through
  Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCSS). The contracts for services estimated to cost less than the
  equivalent o f US$100,000 per contract may be procuredundercontracts basedon Consultants`
  Qualijkations inaccordancewith the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.
  Financial and technical audits estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f US$ 100,000 may be procured
underLeast Cost Selection ( L O inaccordance with the provisions of3.1 and 3.6 o fthe Consultant
  Guidelines



                                                      - 55 -

Short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 100,000 equivalent may be
comprised entirely o f national consultants (inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient numberof qualified individuals or firms (at leastthree)
are available at competitive costs.

Consultants for services meeting the requirements of section V o f the consultant guidelines, may be selected
under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants,i.e. inessence through the comparison o f
the curriculum vitae o f at least 3 qualified individuals. No civil servant can be hiredas consultant.

Single source selection may be usedexceptionally for (i)    the training andtechnical assistance. Training o f
NGOs to reinforce their capacity may be done through a contract with the internationalNGO `GRET' up
to a maximum amount o f US$ 300,000; and (ii)       technical assistance for the Demographic and Health
Survey may be procured through a sole source contract with Macro Internationalup to a maximum
amount o f the equivalent o f US$400,000.

Training, workshops, conference attendanceand study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved
annual work programs that identify the general framework o f training or similar activities for the year,
including the nature o f the activity, the number of participants, and the estimate cost.

Incremental operating costs will be financed under the Project. This includes salaries for limitedstaff o f the
Permanent Executive Secretariat, that will have been recruitedon a competitive basis, fuel, office supplies,
office rental, communications and insurance costs, utilities for rented office, costs o f the maintenance o f
vehicles andoffice equipment, and costs incurred on account of the supervision of the Project including per
diems while on mission.
PriorReview Thresholds. Works. Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more
will be subject to IDA prior review. Inadditionj the first three contracts o f works estimated to cost less
than the equivalent o f US$ 250,000 will be subject to IDA prior review.

Goods. Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$ 250,000 or more and the first three contracts
below the below the equivalent o f US$ 150,000 will be subject to IDA prior review.

Consultant services. Contracts estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or more for individuals and US$
100,000 equivalent or more for firms will be subject to IDA prior review procedures.

Contracts under community basedprocurement estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$ 50,000 or more will
be subject to IDA prior review. However suchcontracts are unlikely since the amount allocatedto a single
community basedsub-project shouldnot exceed the equivalent o f US$20,000.

All other goods, civil works, services contracts and community basedsub-project will be subject to post
review by IDA during implementation support missions andby auditors during the technical and financial
audits.

At leastonce every six months, supervision missions will be carried out. Duringthese missions, a selective
post review of contracts awarded below the threshold will be conducted. The Project activities will be
subject to annual technical audits carried out separately from financial audits.




                                                      - 56 -

Procurementmethods(TableA)


                           Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)




        nts' services, audit,




I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.

2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
  contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
  costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)
                                                   re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 57 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




                                                                Three Ouotations
2. Goods                                 >150                          ICB                     Contract > 250
                                          >30                         NCB                 The first 3 contracts and
                                          <3 0                       Shopping              afterwards post review
                                                                                                Post Review

                                         >loo                         QCBS                           All
                                         < 100                  QCBS, LCS, CQ             The first 3 contract and
                                                                                           afterwards post review

                                         >50                See Section V o f Guidelines  All (TOR, contract, CV)
                                         < 50               See Section V of Guidelines          Post review
                                      Sole Source                                                    All
                                                                Community based                  Post review
sub-project                            All values                  txocurement
 5. Training                           All values             Government procedures        Post review apart from
                                                              acceptableto IDA and         training abroad, annual
                                                              described inthe POM         training plans to be prior
                                                                                              reviewed hv Tl3A



                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US $ 7.25 million
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
     ,Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions proposed:            One every 6 months
                                                                        (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                        post-reviewlaudits)


liThresholds generallydiffer by country andproject. Consult "Assessmentof Agency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                    - 58 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                  CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HIVIAIDS and Health (MAP program)

FinancialManagement

1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
Conutryissues. The Republic of the Congo is gradually emerging from a decade ofpolitical instability,
conflict, and mismanagement. The country's institutions and economy are weak. Structural reforms have
been launched inthe areas of economic governance, public expenditure management, and transparency.
The Transparency and Governance Project financed by the WorldBank is helpingthe country to strengthen
capacity inpublic administrationand to tackle corruption andmismanagement.

However, there are no recent diagnostic studies that contain a definitive evaluation o f the country's
financial management environment. The CFAA exercisewill take place inFY05 as scheduledinthe latest
Transitional Strategy. The report o f the recent mission o f the IMF and the audit report o f KPMG, which
outlined several weaknesses inthe management o f oil resources,provides insight into the status o f the
country's public sector management. These lead to an unsatisfactory rating o f the control environment in
Congo Brazzaville, considering the weak institutions for economic, financial and administrative affairs.

Becauseo f this unsatisfactory rating and due to the lack o f capacity inthe Ministryo f Healthand
Population (MOHP), the project team and the Government decided to contract out financial management,
procurement anddata collection for monitoring and evaluation. The Fiduciary Management Agency
(FMA) for the Project will work inclose collaboration with the Permanent Executive Secretariat, in
particular the Coordinator-Administrator and the Accountant.

Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements. The Project's institutional arrangementsare
summarized in Section C4 o f the PAD and are detailed inthe Project ImplementationPlan. They include: a
National HIV-AIDSCouncil (CNLS or Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA),the decision making
institution chaired by the President o f the Republic which supervisesimplementationof the HIV-AIDS
National Strategic Plan, coordinates HIV-AIDS interventions at the national level, and guides the Project.
Itincludes representatives of civil society, such as PLWHAs and women groups, andofthe private sector,
as well as representatives o f each o f the ministries that have developed action plans to fight HIV-AIDS.
The CNLS meets as least once a year to review progress reports, annual plans and budgets and to make
broad policy towards HIV-AIDS.

A Permanent Executive Secretariat to the CNLS is responsible for day-to-day technical managementand
coordination o f HIV-AIDS interventions and, inparticular, o f the Project. The Permanent Executive
Secretariat includes a Permanent Executive Secretary, a Coordinator-AdministrativeSpecialist, a Sectoral
Response Specialist, a Community-Intervention Specialist, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, a
Social Communication Specialist, and an Accountant. All o f these were recruited on a competitive basis,
except the Permanent Executive Secretary and the Accountant, who are civil servants and not paidby the
Grant. Moreover, the CNLS is recruiting, on a competitive basis, a Public Health Specialist, to supervise
the health component, an internal auditor (international consultant), to assist with disbursementat the
community level, and data basemanagement specialist, to assist with the monitoring and evaluation
sub-component. Project activities will be implemented by three categories o f entities at the national level
and infive dipavtements: (i)   beneficiaries who may be at the Nationalor local levels, and may be
community groups or NGOs, (ii)    executing agencies who may be public or nongovernmental sector
organizations with a legal existence, credibility and acceptability intheir area o f operation (criteria will be
specified inthe POM), and (iii)  consultant firms or individuals.



                                                       - 59 -

A dipartement levelcoordinator, who will be assistedby an accountantandtwo community development
agents, will head the departement level offices. The Coordinator and the accountant will be recruitedon a
competitive basis and paidby the grant. The dipartement level offices (HIV-AIDS Ddpartement
Committees CDLS) will work with the local communities and associations, andwith the technical
               -
ministries to help them establish their priorities and identify their proposals. Proposalswill only be
financed ina dipartement once the ddpartement coordinator and the accountant are inplace to supervise
and monitor implementation. The accountant will coordinate with the central level internal auditor. It is
expected that by grant effectiveness, each CDLS will have recruitedsuch personnel, and ifnot, the
recruitment o f suchpersonnel, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of disbursement for the CDLS.

Review groups, selectedaccording to established procedures, will be establishedto approve proposals
made by public sector entities and civil sector organizations. These groups will includerepresentativeso f
the public sector and of the civil society to ensure complementarity andpartnership.       The National
Commission on OVC will approve or modify the planandbudget for assistance to OVC, following rules
established inthe manual o fprocedures for the OVC component (see Annex 2 for details).

Three special bank accounts will be opened in commercial banks, acceptable to IDA, and implementing
agencies with decentralized dipartement units will maintain separate secondgeneration bank accounts to
received funds transferred by the FMA with the approval o f the PermanentExecutive Secretariat.

Finally, the Project will recruit, on the basis o f terms o f reference acceptable to IDA, professional and
independentexternal auditors to carry out financial and technical audits on an annual basis. Moreover, the
internal auditor will be an InternationalConsultant with significant experience and qualification. The
Recipient agreedto recruit this auditor before October 31,2004. The Permanent Executive Secretariat
will provide overall policy guidance relating to management ofproject funds, andwill ensurethe follow up
o f audit findings and recommendations.

Summary risk analysis.

This part o fthe assessmentwas performed usingthe business risk approach to auditing based on the threat
that an event or action will adversely affect the Project's ability to achieve its ongoing objective.

The overall project risk i s rated as High. An effective financial managementsystemwill be vital for the
Projectbecause o f the need to deliver services to target groups quickly, over a large geographic area. The
objectives o f the Project's financial management system will be: to ensure that project funds are usedonly
for their intended purposes inan efficient and economical way; to enable the rapiddisbursement o fproject
funds to implementing agenciesandbeneficiaries; to ascertainthat funds are properly managed andflow
smoothly, adequately, regularly and predictably to implementing agencies; to enable the preparation o f
accurate and timely financial reports; to buildthe capacity o f the beneficiaries interms o f financial
management; to stimulate accountability through a strong flow o f information on project activities; to
enable project managementto monitor the efficient implementationof the Project; and to safeguard the
project assets andresources. The table below identifies the key risks that management may face in
achieving these objectives andprovides a basis for determininghow management will address these risks.




                                                       - 60 -

Risk:                              tating
The project managementteam         -I --AFMAwillberecruitedtoundertakefinancialmanagement
                                          IIMitipation:                                              -
lacks sufficient financial                  functions, including accounting, disbursement, procurement and
managementcapacity to                       monitoring & evaluation data collection. I t will also provide
?erformthe necessary financial              assistance and capacity buildingsupport (seminar and workshops) to
managementfunctions                         implementing agencies.
                                            --A percentageof funds intended for activities at eachlevel are being
                                            set aside for capacitv building.
'he sectorministries may lack               --Assessment o f the sector ministries to determine their capacity in
ualifiedstaff inspecific areas o            implementingHIV/AIDS activities andmanaging the funds.
l e Project such as planning and            --The FMAmay help recruit and train accountants for each sector
ccounting, leading to delay in              ministry and the dtpavtement coordinating committees ofthe
nplementing activities.                     Permanent Executive Secretariat as required.
'unds, especially incommunity      I        --Accountability will be built into the project coordination
                                                                                    - -
ub-projects, may not be usedin              mechanisms at the decentralized levels usingparticipatory
nefficient and economical way               approaches inidentification, implementationand monitoring
ndexclusively for purposes                  --Communities will be provided with easily understood financial and
itendeddue to the large number              physical information inorder to involve them inmonitoring.

I fparties and transactions                 --Financial managementsupervision at the community level will be
nvolved, the small value and                integrated with monitoring and evaluation to ensure a close link
nultiplicity o f contracts, and the         between physical progress and financial reporting. There will be a
cattered locations o f the                  qualified accountant ineach Permanent Executive Secretariat
ub-projects may impede ex-ante              dtpavtement level office.
ontrols on sub-projects.                   --Independentexternal financial and technical audits ofthe
                                           Project's transactions and activities will be carried out on an
                                           annual basis
                                           --Aninternal auditor will berecruitedto carry out regular
                                           audit mission and supervise the dtpavtement accountants to
                                           ensure that funds are usedproperly inan economic, efficient,
                                           and effective manner.
                                           --The Project's financial management procedures will be
                                           specified indetail inthe Financial and Accounting Procedures
                                           chapter o f the POM.
                                           --The CNLS will provide overall policy guidance relatingto
                                           managemento fproject funds, andwill ensure the follow up o f
                                           audit findings and recommendations.
3venthe weak financial and         /1       --Other fund transfer networks andmechanisms inaddition to the
ianking sector, there may not               regular bank system will be explored and used, provided their legal
xist satisfactory means through             and functional integrity is beyondreasonable doubt and costs.
vhichto make timely                         --The releaseof donor funds will follow an agreedschedule as
iisbursementof funds to                     documented inMemoranda o f Understandingsigned with Ministries.
mplementing agencies and                    --Fundswill bereleasedto implementingagencies (NGOs,Private
ieneficiaries.                              Sector entities, Association inaccordance with agreedcontractual
                                            arrangements [services contracts, performance based contracts,
                                            sub-project agreements]).




                                                   -61  -

Mechanisms used to identify         H         --The annual participatory planning approacheswill assistthe
community needs may leave                     communities inplanning andbudgetingof project funds
communities out o f the                       --TheProject will use atwo-tier system(with strong NGOs
decision-making processes                     (TANGOS) being contracted to assistweaker one) to assist
                                              communities inthe preparation o f community plans and proposals
                                              --A chapter of the POMon Community Initiatives includes detailed
                                              simple guidance on planning aspects andbudgetary control.



Other Financial Arrangements.

a.       The Fiduciary ManagementAgency. A FMA is beingrecruitedby the PermanentExecutive
Secretariat to carry out contracting, procurement, disbursement,and financial management functions and
data collection for M&E. Detailedterms of reference spell out the specific responsibilities of the FMA and
form the basis o f invitations for expressionso f interest, bids and later, the contract signedwith the
successful candidate. This contract will specify the nature, level, mix, andstandardso f services to be
delivered by the FMA.Insituations where the contractor fails to perform, it will be liable for any resulting
delays or damages, and this could lead to the termination o f the contract. This will help enhance the control
o f the Permanent Executive Secretariatover the management and control o f programresources. The FMA
will supply a Senior Financial Management Specialist and a Senior Procurement Specialist to the
Permanent Executive Secretariat:

The F M A will support the PermanentExecutive Secretariat in all aspects o f financial management (at the
national and ddpartement levels), accounting, contracting and procurement related to the Project. The FMA
will also be responsible for the collection of data for the monitoring and evaluation systemrequiredunder
the Project inaccordancewith standardand acceptedguidelines o f the donor agencies supporting this
program. Inparticular, the agency will be responsible for designing and establishing a computerized
financial management system, disbursement o f funds, maintainingthe Secretariat's bank accounts,
maintaining up-to-date accounting records and ledgers, and recording financial transactions, financial
reporting, and ensuring that a proper internal control system is inplace to achieve accountability at all
levels.

The Manager o f the FMA will be underthe supervision o f Permanent Executive Secretary and report to the
Permanent Executive Secretariat's Coordinator-Administrator with regardto day-to-day transactions. The
FMA`s first two tasks will be to put inplace an integrated financial management system, satisfactory to
IDA, andto prepare the format and content ofthe FMRwhich will reflect the project components, andthe
source and use o f funds. At least two sets o f financial reports will be preparedby the FMA: the quarterly
Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) and the Program's financial statements. Inaddition, donors andthe
Permanent Executive Secretariat may request ad hoc reports as reasonable. A senior manager with suitable
qualifications and experience inpublic administrationor inthe private sector, accounting, or project
management will manage the FMand will receive support from professional staff as necessary to assist
with accounting, disbursement and expenditure review.

The Terms o f Reference for the FMAwill indicate the staffing resourcesrequired, butthe FMAwill have
the discretionto determine the structure and staff required. These specialists will be familiar with World
Bank's procurement procedures as reflectedinthe terms o freference approved by the Bank. The FMA
will also determine the best structure to put inplace at the region, ddpartement and lower levels inorder to



                                                       - 62 -

enable the FMA to fulfill its obligations. This may be through the hiringo f staff, or through supervising
personnel that already exist inthose locations.

b.       Administrative, Financialand AccountingProceduresSectionof the POM. The accounting
systems, policies and procedures employedby the FMA inaccounting and managing for Project funds will
be documented inthe Section o fthe POMon Financial andAccounting Procedures. This will be usedby
staff as a reference manual, by IDA and other donors, to assess the acceptability o f the project accounting,
reporting and control systems, and by the auditors to assess project accounting systems and controls andto
design specific project audit procedures. Specific procedureswill be documented for each significant
accounting function. They will define document andtransaction flows, and will cover the flow o f funds,
record keeping and maintenance, the chart o f accounts, formats o f records andbooks o f account,
authorization procedures for transactions, planning and budgeting, financial reports (including formats,
linkages with Chart o f Accounts and procedures for reviewing these); andauditing arrangements.

Inaddition, the Project ImplementationPlanwill document the arrangementsthat have beenmade for
recording project impacts, outcomes, outputs, and inputs that are requiredto assess progress toward the
achievement o fproject objectives. A team o f consultants will be recruitedto prepare the Plan. It will be
revised, inthe first instance after the appointment of the FMA, and regularly thereafter.

The Section on Community Initiatives and the Section on the OVC component will include detailed
guidance on planning aspects. It is plannedto hire one training and supervision NGO per dipartement to
assist communities inthe preparation o f plans and budgets. Finally, there will be a short monitoring &
evaluation guide, specifying data collectionmechanisms and uses o f the data. Advanced drafts o f this
Section o fthe POM were reviewed duringproject appraisal. The POM will be finalized before the project
becomes effective.

c.       Planningand Budgeting. Each sector and level of administration will prepare a strategy for
combating HIV-AIDS, taking into account the views o f relevant stakeholders.The strategy will identifythe
activities to be undertaken, the role o f different parties. Sector ministries will have their strategies, their
annual action plans and budgets approved by the CNLS.

Sector and administrative level strategieswill be converted into work plans and budgets. Work plans for
each dipartement will be a consolidation o f the districts underits area o fjurisdiction, which intum will be
prepared usingparticipatory approaches.

The Permanent Executive Secretariat will consolidate annual sectoral and dipartement level work plans
into a single document and this will be submittedto the CNLS for approval. The consolidation will be done
after the PermanentExecutive Secretariat ensures, through its technical committee, that the plans meet
eligibility criteria.

A project budget and a disbursement schedulehas been drawnup and is included inthe Project Appraisal
Document and the Project Implementation Plan. It i s from this disbursementschedule (as may be
subsequently revised on the basis o f the annual consultations, the mid-termreview and/or the beneficiary
assessment) that annual budgets will be drawn.

The PermanentExecutive Secretariat and the'CDLS will be responsible for the review and approval of
proposals submittedby implementing organizations.

Each ministry will prepare an annual work plan and a budget for its sector o f responsibility incollaboration


                                                       - 63  -

nongovernmental partners active inthat sector, following the annual consultation meetings. These will
indicate the planned activities and related costs, and will form the basis for financial management
report-based disbursements.

Everyyear, community organizations will come together at the dkpartement level and determine their
priority initiatives ina participatory manner. The initiatives they determine will form the basis for the
preparation o f sub-projects. These will be submitted for approval to the nearest level o f project
coordination (at either the community or district level). They will be consolidated into the annual work
plans for that level o f coordination. The Section on Community Initiatives includes more guidance on these
aspects.

d.       Staffing. Staffing requirements relatingto the FMA have been addressedabove. Ministries and
other implementing agencies will retain staffing resources that are adequatewith their level of activities (as
mentioned previously, each ministrywill needto have a qualified accountant inits HIV-AIDS Sector Unit)
and are sufficient to maintain accounting records relatingto project financed transactions, and to provide
the FMA with the financial reports and returns that are necessaryto maintain the Project's overall
accounting records.

An evaluation o fthe accounting capacity of Ministries and ofthe CDLSs is beingcarriedout. Itwill
identifythe numberof staff available to carry out these functions at that level. Itis envisagedthat the FMA
will helpthe Permanent Executive Secretariat hire such staff as are necessary to fill any gaps at
dkpartement level. Training and capacity buildingplans will also be designed to ensure that the relevant
functions are transferred to ministries. Sufficient funds ineach work plan will be dedicated to capacity
buildingactivities aimed at reinforcingplanningand budgeting, implementationand monitoring and
evaluation capacity o f the implementing agency.

e.       Record keeping and maintenance. At the national level, the FMA will be responsible for
maintaining the Project's records. For the various implementingagencies including sector ministries and
ddpartement coordination, accounting source documents will be kept at their premises and made available
for the purpose o f verifying project expenditure incurred and for internal and external auditing.

f.       Financial Reporting. Financial reports will be designedto provide high quality and timely
information to project management, implementingagencies, and various stakeholders on project
performance. Formats o f the various periodic financial management reports to be generated, 9 or 12
months after effectiveness, from the financial managementsystemwill be developed usingthe World
Bank's Guidelinesfor Borrowers on Financial Monitoring Reports. These will include financial
statements (e.g. sources anduse o f funds; expenditure classified by project components, disbursement
categories, expenditure o f the Permanent Executive Secretariatand implementing agencies, and
comparisons with budgets variance analysis). Additional information requiredby the World Bank Loan
Department for disbursement purposes will also be included (see below).

Annual Financial Statementswill include: a Statemento f Sources andUse o f Funds showing all the sources
o f project funds, expenditures analyzed by project component and credit category; notes inrespect o f
significant accounting policies and accounting standardsadopted by management and any supplementary
information requiredto enhance analysis; a Special Account Activity Statement; an ImplementationReport
containing a narrative summary o f the implementationprogress for the Project; anda Summary o f
Withdrawals usingfinancial management reports, listingindividual withdrawal applications by reference
number, date and amount, and information on contracts above and below the prior review threshold. The
format o f the reports will be developed as soon as the FMA will be recruited.


                                                     - 64 -

At the community level, simplicity will be the primary objective indesigningrecords that are maintained to
account for sub-project transactions. Physical progress reports and financial reports from the sub-project
level will be submitted to the FMA inaccordance with agreedsimplifiedreporting formats specified ina
simple two-page agreement (see the Section on Community-based Interventions). The timingfor submission
o f the reports for sector ministries will also be specified inthe Memorandum o f Understanding. At this
level, the form and content o f the reports could include one or more of inter alia, progress and completion
reports, technical inspection certificates, minutes o f community meetings, memoranda o freceipts and
expenses, etc., as appropriate for each set o f circumstances. These reports will be available for review
duringregular supervision missions and for audit purposes. For small sub-projects of a short duration, a
single report issuedat the endofthe sub-project period may be sufficient. Other implementing agencies
will be requiredto submit reports inaccordance with terms agreedbetween the Project and the agency.

2. Audit Arrangements
There will be two parallel auditingprocesses:

InternalAuditing. As mentioned previously, the Project will recruit an international consultant to serve
as Internal Auditor within the Permanent Executive Secretariat. The Internal Auditor's task will be to
ensure respect for the Project's financial procedures and regulations relating to the management o f project
resources. To achieve this, the Internal Auditor will inspect the accounting procedures usedby the FMA to
ensure that they conform to the establishedprocedures and guidelines.

The InternalAuditor will supervise the various implementingagencies, suchas the sector ministries and
NGOs to assure the effectiveness ofthe Project's accounting and internal control systems.

At the dtpartement levels ofproject implementation, the InternalAuditor will designand carry out a simple
and inexpensive ex-post audit o f community sub-projects. These audits will be linkedto the overall
monitoring and evaluation of the community sub-projects. This will enable the Permanent Executive
Secretariat to confirm that sub-project fimds are spent on the intended purposes and that the community has
received value for money.

The POM will contain a description of the roles and responsibilities of the InternalAuditor and a
description o f the line o f reporting that guaranteesadequate independence.

ExternalFinancialAuditing. The Permanent Executive Secretariat will contract with a firmo freputable
auditors for an audit o f the Project's financial statements on an annual basis. The selection of the
successful firm will be basedon terms of reference that set forth the scope of the audit and that are
acceptable to IDA. The audited financial statementstogether with the Financial Auditor's report and
management letter covering identifiedinternal control and accounting systemweaknesses will be submitted
to IDA within six months after the endo f each financial year (as o f December 31). The Financial Auditor
will issue a single audit opinion on project income andexpenditures, special accounts and FMRs. Itwill
issue a further audit opinion on specific controls such as compliance with procurement procedures and
FMRrequirements. Any firm ofauditors subcontracted to carry out the audit mustmeet the IDA'S
requirements interms o f independence, qualifications and experience. The Recipient agreedthat this
Auditor will be recruited at the latest by October 31, 2004.

ExternalTechnicalAuditing. The Permanent Executive Secretariat will contract, on a competitive basis,
with a firm o f technical auditors who will review procurement, statements of expenditures, and stocks as
well as verifyingthe physical existence o f goods and equipmentand verifying the delivery services acquired


                                                       - 65 -

through the Project. This audit will be conducted on an annual basis as of June 30 o f every year. The
selection o f the successful firm will be basedon terms o f referencethat set forth the scope o f the technical
audit and are acceptableto IDA. The audited documents together with the auditor's report will be
submittedto IDA within four months ofthe end ofthe review. It is expectedthat the Technical Auditor
will be recruited within six months o feffectiveness.

Closing the accountability cycle: following up on audit queries. The CNLS is responsible for the review of
audited financial statementsand o f internal andexternal audit findings. When the audits fmd weaknesses in
the financial management system or incidences o f noncompliance with procedures, the CNLS will require
corrective action to be taken by the Permanent Executive Secretariat and the FMA. Moreover, the
PermanentExecutive Secretariat will use the results o fthe audits inmonitoring the performance o f the
FMA and of other implementingagencies. This arrangementwill ensure the satisfactory follow-up of audit
findings.

The successfulinternal control and financial managementofthe Project will require that beneficiaries and
other stakeholdersbe kept well informed at all times and at all levels about their entitlements, rights,
obligations, and the Project's costs andbenefits. This information will be provided ina manner
understandableto all interested parties and its availability will facilitate the involvement o f the beneficiary
coinmunity inthe fiduciary management ofthe Project. Itwill also enable them to demand accountability
from their leaders or from community organizations that are responsible for the implementationo f
sub-projects. Infurtherance o f this objective, summaries o f local project expenditures and procurement
information will be posted ina public place within the communities.

Conclusionof the FinancialManagementAssessment. The out-sourcing of the financial management
functions to an international FMA will enable the establishment o f a financial management system for the
project that satisfies the Bank's minimumrequirements under OP/BP10.02 and are adequateto provide,
with reasonableassurance, accurate andtimely informationon the status ofthe Projectrequiredby IDA.
The arrangements, once put inplace, will enable the disbursementofthe IDA Grantto be done onthe basis
o f Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) nine to twelve months after effectiveness subject to a Financial
Management Assessment satisfactory to IDA as well as the submission of satisfactory FMRs in the
preceding months. The actions that are requiredto facilitate the establishment o f this system are listed in
the FinancialManagement Action Planbelow.




                                                     - 66 -

 FinancialManagementAction Plan.

   Issue                       Remedial Action Recommended                              Due Date
     Fiduciary                    The recruitment o f the FMA is completed and the       Condition of
     managemento f the            contract signedby the Permanent Executive            I effectiveness
                              ~


     Project : FMA                Secretariat.
  Information System           Same as above.                                          By three months
  including accounting and                                                             after effectiveness
  M&Esoftware
  Section o f the POM on       Manual finalized and agreed                              Condition of
  administrative and                                                                    effectiveness
  financial procedures
  Extemal Auditing             Selection o f the Extemal Financial Auditor completed By Oct. 31,2004
  (Financial and Technical) and agreedby the Bank                                        (financial)
                                                                                         By January 31,
                                                                                         2005 (technical)

  Intemal Auditing             *    Recruitment o f the Intemational Intemal Auditor Three months after
                               completed and agreedby the Bank                          effectiveness
  Capacity o f Line            Assessment o f ministries completed and reports          Condition of
  Ministries                   finalized                                                disbursement
   Capacity o f CDLS of the .       Assessment of the capacity o f CDLS                  Condition o f
   CNLSIPES                                                                              disbursement

 SupervisionPlan.A supervision missionwill be conducted at least every six months. The mission's
 objectives will include that o f ensuringthat strong financial management systems are maintained for the
 Project throughout its life. A review will be carried out regularly to ensure that expenditures incurredby
 the Project remain eligible for IDA funding. The Project Status Report (PSR) will include a financial
 management rating for the component done by the Country Office Financial Management Specialist after
 an appropriate review.

 3. DisbursementArrangements
The PermanentExecutive Secretariat will open three Special Accounts incommercial banks, onterms and
conditions acceptableto IDA (See below for details, section on Special Accounts). The accounts will receive
disbursementsfrom IDA for use inimplementingthe Project andwill be denominated inCFA Francs. The
FMA will manage the Special Accounts inconjunctionwith the PermanentExecutive Secretariat.

 Disbursement o f IDA Fundsto the Proiect. After 9 to 12months o f project implementationand subject to
 a satisfactory FM assessment and regular submission o f FMRs, disbursements o f IDA funds to the project
 will be basedon Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) that integrate project accounting, procurement,
 contract management, disbursementand audit with indicators o f the progress o fproject implementation.

 After the Project becomes effective, IDA will deposit funds into each ofthe Special Accounts at the request
 of the Recipient. The initial deposit will cover project expenditures for the first 6 months of
 implementation, as indicated inthe initial six-month cash flow forecast. Once FMR-based disbursement
 has beenapproved, the Project will submit FMRs after every subsequent quarter, including a forecast o f
 cash flow for the following 6-month period. The request for cash at the reporting date should be calculated



                                                        - 67 -

as the amount requiredfor the forecast period as shown inthe approved FMRs, less the balance inthe
concerned Special Account at the endof the quarter. Subsequentdisbursements of the IDA funds will be
made inrespect o fthis request. Meanwhile, IDA will replenishthe Special Accounts on the basis of a
summaryof expenditures. Details ofpayments will be providedinaccordancewith performance-based
contracts, services contracts, sub-project agreements and financing agreements for micro-projects.

Fundswill also be disbursedthrough direct payments from IDA on contracts above 20% ofthe Special
Account authorized allocation. Withdrawal applications for such payments mustbe accompanied by
relevant supporting documents (i.e. copies o f the contract, contractors' invoices and appropriate
certifications).

Disbursementof funds from the uroiect to implementingagenciesand suppliers& consultants.
The FMAwill make disbursementsto implementingagencies or suppliers, after technical review by the
Permanent Executive Secretariat, basedon appropriate contractual arrangements (Le. services contracts,
performance-based contracts, sub-project agreements and financing agreements for micro-projects). The
submission of accounts for payments o f tranches under contracts will not be a condition for making
disbursements.However, appropriate corrective action will be sought from implementingagencieswhere
irregularities are identifiedas a result o f exercises carried out by the Permanent Executive Secretariat to
verify expenditures.

Sector Ministries. The Permanent Executive Secretariat will sign a Memorandum o f Understanding with
each o f the ministries. Each Memorandum o f Understanding will specify the expected results that can be
monitored and conditions o f implementation. Each ministrywill thenopen an account ina commercial
bank satisfactory to IDA to receive an advance for implementationof the activities, which appear inits
approved work plan. The Memorandum will contain a schedule of payments that reflects the nature o f the
activities to be implemented. (Other implementationagencieswould be financed basedon service contracts,
as indicatedabove).

The Ministries will submit requests for payment to the FMA inaccordance with the agreed schedule. The
FMAwill seek approval for payment from the PermanentExecutive Secretariatifthe request is in
compliance with the Memorandum of Understanding, the approved work plan, and the documentation
justifyingthe use ifthe funds. Once the Secretariat gives its permission, the cashwill be disbursedinto the
Ministry's bank account. (FMR-based disbursementsfor Ministries can begin as approved by AFTFM).

Approval o f new Action Plans will dependon the results o f overall performance as measuredby the
agreed-indicators. Misguided activities could result inthe suspension o f financing for a given entity.

The Project will also be able to sign a Management Services Contract with UnitedNations Agencies for the
purpose o f scaling-up and implementing their HIV-AIDS activities that are included inthe National
Strategic Plan. These Agencies will receive funds from the Project on the basis o f detailed annual budgets
and agreed-upon results that can be monitored, as described inthe contract payment modalities.

Disbursements for decentralized implementation(including communitv sub proiects). The decentralized
entities may sign a contract, a sub-project agreement or a financing agreement for a micro-project,
dependingon the nature ofthe services to be rendered., as specified inthe POM. Project funds to finance
activities inthe targeted dipartements will be transferred to second generation accounts opened inthese
dipartements for the CDLS. The amount to be heldin these accounts will not exceed FCFA 50.000.000.
Whennecessary,alternative channels for funds transfers will be usedto transmit payments to beneficiaries
inremote locations. The contract with the concerned implementing agencieswill stipulate tranche payments


                                                       - 68 -

and suitable disbursement triggers.

  Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

            Expenditure Category                Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
 Works (small rehabilitation and                       0.06                             100
  expansions)
 Goods (Vehicles, equipment, h i t u r e )             4.00                             100
 Pharmaceuticals (drugs, reagents and                  0.83                             100
 medical consumables)
  Services
   a. Consultants' services, audit for Part A          2.38                             100
1 andb. Consultants'
       D1.D2 and D3 of the Proiect
                    services for part D 4 o f I        0.38           I                 100                I
ITraining                                     I        1.40           I                 100                  I
  Civil Society Response

    a. Micro-grants for micro-projects                 2.49                             100
    b. Contracts with TANGOS                           0.25
  Incremental recurrent costs
    a. For Component 1, 3,4A, 4B and 4C                3.32                             100
1 of the Proiect                               I                      I                                      I
    b. For Component 4C o fthe Project                 0.42                             100
  PPF                                                   1.oo
 Non allocated                                         2.47

  Total Project Costs with Bank                        19.00
  Financing
  Total                                                19.00



  Use of statementsof expenditures (SOEs):

Disbursementsfor all expenditures would be made against full documentation, except for items of
expendituresundercontracts for: (a) consulting firms inan amount inferior to $100,000 equivalent, (b)
individual consultants inan amount inferior to $50,000 equivalent, (c) works andgoods, inan amount
inferior to S250,000, and (d) community sub-projects, multi-sectoral plans or work programs, training and
operating costs, which would be claimed on the basis o f Statemento f Expenditures(SOEs). All supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained at a suitable location at the FMA,the province and/or the
community level andmade readily accessible for review by periodic IDA supervision missions and internal
and external auditors.




                                                   - 69 -

Special account:

 To facilitate project implementationand reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, the FMA would
 open three Special Accounts inFCFA in a commercialbank on terms andconditions acceptable to IDA.

       e        Special Account A: Disbursementsto this account finance the Public Sector Responseto
                HIV-AIDS (Component 1) Management and Coordination, Capacity Building,and
                Monitoring & Evaluation (Component 4A, 4B and 4C);
      e         Special Account B: Disbursementsto this account finance the Civil Society Responseto
                HIV-AIDS (Component 2) and Investments inOrphans & other Vulnerable Children
                (Component 3); some h d s will be channeled from Special Account B to
                second-generationaccounts openedinthe targeted dkpartements. Special account B will
                be open ina bank which has offices inthe dkpartements;
      e         Special Account C: Disbursementsto this account finance data collection (sub-component
                4D) to be implemented by the CNSEE, following their annual work program and under the
                supervision o f the FMA.

  The authorized allocation would be FCFA 800,000,000 for Special Account A, 350,000,000 FCFA for
  Special Account B and FCFA 70,000,000 for Special Account C and would cover about six months o f
  eligible expenditures. The Special Account would be usedfor all payments inferior to twenty percent
  o f the authorized allocation and replenishment applications would be submittedmonthly. Further
  deposits by IDA into the Special Accounts would be made against withdrawal applications supported
  by appropriate documents.




                                                  -70  -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
               CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HlVlAlDS and Health (MAP program)




 First Bank mission (identification)                        04101I2002                      0410112002
 Appraisal mission departure                                0112612004                      01I2612004
INegotiations                                               03/03/2004                      03/03/2004
/PlannedDate of Effectiveness                     II        0711512004            II        0711512004      II

Prepared by:
National AIDS Commission (CNLS)


Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD grant No. TF051891: $628,575 (approved April 11,2003)
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) : $1 million (1st PPF o f S600,OOO approved in January 2003 and second
PPF of $400,000 approved inNovember 2003)

IBank Name
       staff who worked on the proiect included:
                                                            Speciality
 Michele Lioy                             Task Team LeaderlSr. Population Specialist
 MenahemPrywes                            Sr. Economist
 David Blankhart                          Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
 Myrina McCullough                        Operations Analyst
 Jean-Charles Amon Kra                    Financial Management Specialist
 Prosper Nindorera                        Procurement Specialist
 Mohsen Farza                             Community-led initiatives Specialist
 MohamedAli Kamil                         Public Health Specialist
 Monthe BienvenuBiyoudi                   ResearchAnalyst
 Jonathan Brown                           Operations Adviser
 Albert Sales                             Public Health Specialist
 Malonga Miatudila                        Sr. Public Health Specialist
Astania Kamau                             Language ProgramAssistant
 Anne Anglio                              Language ProgramAssistant




                                                    - 71 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
               CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HlVlAlDS and Health (MAP program)


A. ProjectImplementationPlan



B. Bank Staff Assessments

- Aide-memoire - Identificationmission - April 2-19,2002
- Aide-memoire - Preparation
-- Aide-memoire -- Pre-evaluation
                               mission - November 18-28, 2002
                   Preparation mission - January 27 February 10, 2003
                                                     -
- Aide-memoire - Evaluationmission - January 23 - February 12,2004
   Aide-memoire                   mission - June 23 - July 3, 2003


C. Other


- Reports dated September 2003 prepared by Consultant CREDES - InFrench

Tome I : Volume 1:Analyse actualiste de la situation et de la reponse nationale
Tome I:  Volume 2: Orphelins et autres enfants vulnkrables Proposition du Projet pilote sur
                                                              -
l'arrondissement de Moungali a Brazzaville et Analyse de la situationet propositions
Tome I:  Volume 3: Analyse institutionnelle des ONG
Tome I:  Volume 4: Renforcement duplateau technique des laboratoires et durkseau national de transfusion
sanguine

Tome 11:Plan d'action national multisectoriel2003-2005 de lutte contre le VIWSIDA et les IST - Rtsumk
exkcutif
Tome 11: Volume 1: Plan d'action national multisectoriel2003-2005 de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA et les IST
- Classementpar objectifgknkral, objectifs specifiques, strategies et activites
Tome 11:Volume 2: Plan d'action national multisectoriel2003-2005 de lutte contre le VIWSIDA et les IST
- Classement par secteur operateur
Tome 11:Volume 3: Plan d'action national multisectoriel2003-2005 de lutte contre le VIWSIDA et les IST
- Classementpar dkpartement benkficiaire

Tome 111: Suivi & Evaluation Manueldes indicateurs
Tome 111: Suivi & Evaluation   -- Manuel des indicateurs - Annexes

Tome IV: Manuel des prockdures     - Manuel  pour les initiatives communautaires
Tome IV: Manuel des prockdures - Manuel des opkrations: Procedures administratives, financikres et
comptables ainsi que le dktail des procedures de passation des marchks

- Medical Waste Management Plan - InFrench - Preparedby Consultant Djibril Doucourk - November
2003

*Including electronic files




                                                    - 72 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                           CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HlVlAlDS and Health(MAP program)
                                                                                                      ~~
                                                                 27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                                         Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                  and actual
                                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                        Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO81924      2003 Emergency RecoveryICommunity Project               0.00      28.00                         0.00   41.52        -1.17      0.00
PO73507      2002 Transparency and Governance Capacity Bui           0.00       7.00                         0.00     6.77       -0.45      0.00
PO74006      2002 EMERGENCY REHABILITATION,RECONSTRUC                0.00      40.00                         0.00   41.86         4.54      0.00
P074639      2002 Emergency Demob. 8 Reinteg. Project                0.00       5.00                         0.00     1.94        0.26      0.00

                                                          Total:    0.00       80.00                         0.00   92.09         3.18      0.00




                                                                     - 73 -

                                    CONGO, REPUBLIC OF
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                        June 30 - 2003
                                      InMillions USDollars


                                                       Committed                       Disbursed
                                                      IFC                            IFC
FY Approval   Company                           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic


                     Total Portfolio:           0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                   ApprovalsPendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                             Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:             0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00




                                              - 74 -

                                                    Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                     CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HIVIAIDS and Health (MAP program)
                                                                                   Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                 Congo,       Saharan        Low-
                                                                     Rep.         Africa   income          1 Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                        3.2           688      2,495                          Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                    720           450        430
GNi (Atlas method. US$ billions)                                      2.3           306      1,072
Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                             I                      T
Population(%)                                                         2.9            2.4        1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                        2.9            2.5        2.3                                                    Gross
                                                                                                                                                     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                        capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverty/inel
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                                 67             33        30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                         52             46        59
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                                 75           105         81
Child malnutrition (W ofchildren under5)                                                                           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                     51             58        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                    17             37        37
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                     97             86        95                     *"     Congo, Rep.

    Male                                                              101             92       103                           Low-incomearow
    Female                                                             93             80        87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1982        1992          2001       2002
                                                                                                              Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                         2.2        2.9            2.8        3.0
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                              59.7       21.6          26.8        26.3
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                          55.3       42.9          83.1        76.6                             Trade

Grossdomestic savingslGDP                                 46.5       24.4          60.3        52.7
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                            10.9          30.5        25.7

Currentaccount baiancelGDP                               -15.3      -10.8
Interestpayments/GDP                                       4.4         1.o           0.9        0.1
Total debt/GDP                                            91.8      162.6          161.1      170.9
Total debt servicelexports                                20.0       12.9            4.0        1.I
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                           151.8
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                       182.6                                      Indebtedness
                                         1982-92      1992-02        2001          2002    2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                *        Congo, Rep
GDP                                           0.8           1.9        3.6           3.5        4.8                         ci


GDP per capita                               -2.1          -1.1        O R           0 7        2 0                            Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                       ~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                         1982        1992          2001       2002            Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                 7.9                                               40  T
                                                                 '   11.5            5.9        6.1
industry                                                  52.6       35.5           65.2       65.6
   Manufacturing                                            4.8        7.9           4.1        5.2
Services                                                  39.6       53.0           28.9       28.4                                          00    01     02

Privateconsumption                                        40.0       54.5           29.1       34.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                              13.5       21.1           10.5       12.4
importsof goodsand services                               68.5       40.1           49.6       50.2

                                                      1982-92    1992-02           2001       2002         1 Growth of
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                  exports and Imports("A)             I
Agriculture                                                 2.7        2.1           7.7        4.4        l ? O T

industry                                                    2.2       3.2           -1.9        1.4
   Manufacturing                                            3.6       0.2           18.5        9.0          10

Services                                                   -0.6       0.7            8.5        5.3
                                                                                                               0
Privateconsumption                                         -2.0       2.1           -2.5       11.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                3.9       -1.6          -0.4       18.9
Grossdomestic investment                                 -12.9        -0.2          12.4        5.7
Importsof goods and services                               -7.8       2.6            0.7        9.0

'The diamondsshow four keyindicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                              - 75 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
                                          1982   1992    2001   2002
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                            12.7   -3.9    -0.9    2.0
Implicit GDP deflator                       6.0   -1.6   -14.0   -0.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                  22.5     30.9  27.7
Current budget balance                           -12.4     9.4   -0.2    I                GDP deflator    '"0"CPI       I
Overall surplusideficit                          -14.1    -0.7   -8.8                % *




TRADE                                                                                                                   I
                                          1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                            Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              1,206  2,285   1,880
  Crude oil                                       966   1,295   1,512
 Wood                                              142    166     177
 Manufactures                                      25      12      13
Total imports (cif)                               499   1,153   1,234
  Food                                             34      24      26
  Fuel and energy                                  104    237    246
                                                                                                                        I
  Capital goods                                    188    496     528
Export price index (1995=100)                      115    133     134            96   97    98     99     00     01

Import price index (1995=100)                      101    109     107              Q ~xports           Imports        O2
Terms of trade (1995=700)                          114    122     125

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           I Currentaccount balance to GDP (%)            1
Exports of goods and services             1,186  1,257  2,317   2,255      0
Imports of goods and services             1,361  1,176  1,382   1,477                            99      00     01   02
Resource balance                          -175      82    935     778     10

Net income                                -138   -378    -834   -781      20
Net current transfers                       -55    -19       3      4

Current account balance                   -332   -317
Financing items (net)                      251    290
Changes in net reserves                     81     27     142     -57

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millionsJ                     73     123
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)          328.6  264.7  733.0   697.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                            Composition of ZOO2 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and dkbursed       1,982 4,770   4,491   5,152
  iBRD                                      42     160     16      10                    A 1 0 8:qga
  IDA                                       49     74     187     198

Total debt service                         241     162     92      24
  IBRD                                        5     0      70       8
  IDA                                         0     0      10       4
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                           23     36      35       0
  Official creditors                       113      16    -17      -7
  Private creditors                        402      17       0      0
  Foreign direct investment                 35      4      59       0                                        E: 2,616
  Portfolio equity                           0      0        0      0
World Bank program
  Commitments                               16      0      43      40                                           -
  Disbursements                             15      0                                                        E Bilateral
                                                           38       2     A . IBRD
                                                                          8 . IDA    D .Other multilateral   F Private
                                                                                                                -
  Principal repayments                       2      0      54       9     C IMF
                                                                            -                                G Short-tarn
                                                                                                                .
  Net flows                                 13      0     -16      -7
  Interest payments                          4      0      26       3
  Net transfers                             10      0     -42     -10
fl



                                                      - 76 -

      Additional Annex 11: Medical Waste Management Plan Executive Summary    -
                CONGO, REPUBLIC OF: HlVlAlDSand Health (MAP program)

The Republic o f Congo, located in Central Africa, has approximately three million inhabitants spreadover
an area of 342,000 km2. Differentstrategies are beingusedto curb the spreadof HIV/AIDS infection, the
incidence o f which is alarming. One o f these strategiesinvolves biomedical waste management. The main
producers o f this waste are public and private heathfacilities. The country has one CHU [University
Hospital Center], four regional hospitals, thirty-five district hospitals, fifteen integrated health centers
delivering the minimumpackage o f activities (MPA), one hundredand fifty-five non-streamlined integrated
health centers, and four hundredother facilities. The private sector i s expanding rapidly, particularly in
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. Minimumproductionestimates o f hospitals and MPA health facilities alone
stand at 341 tons of medical waste per year or 934 kgper day.

Based on observations, biomedical waste managementposes a real problem inboththe public health and
environmental spheres. For one thing, general sanitation conditions inhealth facilities are disturbing,
despite the existence o f hospital sanitation services, where shortages exist interms ofboth resourcesand
personnel.

Selective sorting o f infectious waste is rare. Most often, sorting involves the placement o fneedles in
differentreceptacles, which endup inthe same place as waste that was never sorted at the source level.
From a storage standpoint, the number o f waste receptaclesi s very inadequate to facilitate sorting at the
source level, and there are no specific locations for intermediate or final storage. Health care personnel are
askedto perform collection and removaltasks, owingto the shortage o f hospital cleaning staff.

Outside o f hospital facilities, private entities transport waste (hand carts, NGOs, businesses). This service
i s sometimes provided by the local authorities. Waste ends up inillegal rubbish dumps, where adults, and
possibly, children, scavenge. Within health facilities, processing includes incineration, burying, and even
the unauthorized dumpingo fbiomedical waste. Placentasare buried, incinerated, or given back to parents.

Legislation, ineffect inCongo, very briefly alludes to the subject o f biomedicalwaste, without explicitly
mentioning it, when it addresses the impact o f certain types o f equipment, inparticular incinerators
(Ministry o f the Environment).

As a result ofthis situation, the plan of action focuses on: providing the biomedicalwaste disposal system
with a structure and equipment, developing and strengthening its institutional, legislative, and regulatory
framework, conducting an information and awareness-building campaign, and implementing a training
programwith the general and specific objectives indicated below:

General objective: Provide healthy living and working conditions and safeguardpublic health through a
sustainable system for the collection, removal, andprocessing o fbiomedical waste in Congo.

General objectiveNo. 1:Improve significantly the managemento f biomedicalwaste inhealth facilities in
Congo.
Specific objectives: Provide health facilities with equipment for the collection and disposal o f biomedical
waste; formulate plans for the management o f biomedical waste inhealth facilities.

General objectiveNo. 2:Develop a sustainable and securepartnership to manage biomedical waste by
putting inplace a more efficient management systemas well as a sustainable systemo f financing.



                                                       - 77 -

General objectiveNo. 3: Through IEC, buildawareness among the different players with respectto the
problem o f biomedical waste management.
Specific objectives: Provide more information to persons directly and indirectly involved inthis process,
point out to persons directly and indirectly involved inthe process the dangers associatedwith poor
management o f biomedical waste andthe risks posed by certain attitudes and practices.

General objectiveNo. 4: Strengthenand develop the capacity o fpersons involved inthis activity through
targeted training programs.
Specific objectives: Improveattitudes o f the differentactors, change practices, and provide more
information on biomedical waste.

General objectiveNo. 5: Strengthen the institutional, legislative, and regulatory framework.
Specific objectives: Prepare specific regulations for Congo on biomedical waste, design a planfor
implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

Interms ofthe collection, transportation, and internal storagecomponent ofthe management system, health
facilities should be provided with collection equipment inorder to encourage sorting at the source level,
final storage locations should be set-up, personnel shouldbe providedwith protective gear, and all health
facilities should draft a management plan following national training sessions. Inaddition, laundries will
be outfitted with equipmentto halt the spreadofnosocomialinfections and sterilization equipment will be
purchased and distributed.

An analysis of available equipment for waste processing, taking into consideration efficacity, scope of
waste processing, cost and environmental factors, ledto the selection o f small capacity incinerators for
regional hospitals, and Turbo 2000 incinerators for district hospitals and integrated health centers (this
choice was made becauseo f their relatively low cost, and easy maintenance). Montfort type incinerators
will be built in isolated healthcenters.

The Govemment o f Congo still has to select, among the severalproposals, how bio-medical waste will be
collectedand treated.

Fivebasic strategieshave beenproposed:

1.       The centralization ofbiomedical waste inhealthfacilities that have disposal equipment, with
different options for transportation (fee-based).
2.       Use of a sociktk depatrimoine, with the participation o fpublic hospitals, municipalities, clinics,
and other private health facilities, which would buy processing units. This agencies could be operated by a
designated private management company that could be assignedresponsibility for transportation.
3.       Investment inand operation o f systems for biomedicalwaste processingldisposal by municipalities
having contracts with health structures that produce biomedical waste.
4.       Investment inand operation by private agents with the appropriate expertise and financing
capacities.
5.       Intemal processing and disposal by means o f incineration or burial after decontamination.

The following proposal represents a blendo fthe above-mentioned strategies:

- A "centralized" system couldbe adopted for Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, on a contractual basis. The
transportation system couldbe managed by the private sector that would serve all health facilities in


                                                    - 78 -

exchange for a transportation fee. The municipalities couldprovide assistancefor pick up at intermediate
points. These health facilities will also contribute to the operation of the incinerator, which will be owned
by the hospital.
- All facilities inremote areas will have access to the centralized system.

A nationaltraining program, will be developed. Itwill include modules that focus on each stage ofthe
waste management system, good practices, the preparation of management plans to be implementedby
each facility, health (inparticular HIV infection) and environmental risks, and the use and maintenance o f
incineration equipment. Target audiences for training include:

         Administrative personnel, particularly those persons responsible for the application o f regulations
         (administrators, hospital directors, heads o f clinics);
    0    Doctors, nurses, and midwives;
    0    Individuals responsible for biomedical waste managementwithin the framework o f the management
         plan, municipal staff assigned to this task (cleaning staff, persons responsible for waste
         management);
    0    Organizations involved inthe awareness-building program (NGOs, community organizations).

Inpreparing targetedawareness-building programs, emphasiswill beplacedonthe linkbetween
HIV-AIDS and biomedical waste. The media (all forms), NGOs, and community organizations will be
used to conduct the awareness-building campaign. Radio andtelevision spots will be produced, skits will
be performedby drama groups, musicalprograms will be aired, anda documentary on biomedical waste
management will be shown at community gatherings and on television. Posters will also be designed, as
well as T-shirt with a logo that could be chosen through a national school competition.

Withrespectto legislationonbiomedical waste management, a legislative working group, assistedby a
consultant, could propose specific and detailed regulatory texts that cover all aspects o fbio-medical waste
management.
Several entities will be involved inthe implementationo fthis plan: the Ministryo f Health and its
departments and facilities, the Ministryo f the Environment, the private sector, Educational entities, NGOs,
community organizations, the media, multilateral andbilateral cooperation agencies, and the
implementation agencies andthe monitoring and evaluation system.

Activities included inthe waste management plan include:

- A six-month preparatory phase: launch seminar, donors meeting, preparation o f biddingdocuments, etc.,
-consensus  meetings, finalization o f plans, and establishment of an implementationcommittee;
  The five-year execution phasewill include the ordering, delivery, anddistribution of material and
equipment, the installation o f incinerators andthe construction o f Montfort-type incinerators inselected
sites, the implementation o f the "centralized" strategy (see above page 3), as well as training and
awareness-building. Duringthis phase, a legislative working group will be established to prepare a law
concemingbio-medical waste management and facilitating its submission for adoption;
- Overall monitoring will be providedby the implementation committee and the Direction Generaleof the
MOHP. It will include periodic on-site visits, activity reports, and discussions with the beneficiaries. All
implementation agencies will contribute to monitoring and will be assignedfollow up tasks.
- Two evaluations will be done: one intemal mid-termevaluation andone extemal evaluation during the
monthfollowing completion of the project. Eachwill last for one month.




                                                      - 79 -


MAP SECTION


