Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H082 COB 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS and Health Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 5, 2004 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H082 COB 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 2004, between the Republic of Congo (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Project is part of the second phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS 
Program (MAP II) for the Africa Region, approved by the Board of Executive Directors 
of the Association on February 7, 2002; 
(C)  
the Association has received from the Recipient a “National Strategic 
Plan for the Fight against HIV/AIDS 2003-2007” dated November 2002, containing 
details of the design and content of the Recipient’s national multi-sectoral strategy to 
fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic that was prepared through a participatory approach under 
the leadership of the National Council for the Fight against HIV/AIDS (
Conseil National 
de Lutte Contre le SIDA
)
(said document being hereinafter referred to as the “Program”) 
and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
(D) 
the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Action Plan” means the document describing a series of activities to 
fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic to be carried out by a PSO (as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;  
(c) 
“ARVs” means anti-retroviral medication;  
(d) 
“Bio-Medical Waste Management Plan” means the plan adopted by the 
Recipient satisfactory to the Association for the management of hazardous health/medical 
waste under the Project, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to the 
Project Implementation Manual; 
(e)        “CDLS” means a 
Comité Départemental de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA
,
the Recipient’s Provincial Committee for the Fight against HIV/AIDS established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 2003/245 dated September 25, 2003 
(the “CDLS Decree”); 
(f) 
“CNLS” means the 
Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA
,
the 
Recipient’s National Council for the Fight against HIV/AIDS, established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 2002/368 dated November 30, 2002 (the “CNLS 
Decree”); 
(g) “CNSEE” 
means 
Centre National de la Statistique et des Études 
Économiques,
 the 
Recipient’s national statistic authority under the Minister of Plan 
(h) 
“CSO” means a civil society organization established and operating 
under the laws of the Recipient, including 
inter alia
 rural or urban communities,  
grass-root organizations, religious and cultural organizations, professional and non-
professional associations, private enterprises, NGOs (as hereinafter defined) and 
community-based associations involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS and which have 
met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual (as defined 
hereafter) and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this agreement and, as a result, have 
received or are entitled to receive a Micro-Grant (as hereinafter defined) through a 
Micro-Grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for carrying out Micro-Project (as 
hereinafter defined); 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
“FCFA” means 
Franc 
de
la Coopération Financière en Afrique 
Centrale,
 the currency of the Recipient; 
(j) 
“Fiduciary Management Agency” or “FMR” means the firm to be 
recruited by the Recipient to carry out financial management, accounting and 
procurement activities under the Project, as well as the collection of data for monitoring 
and evaluation purposes, referred in Section 6.01 of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus; 
(m) 
“HIV/AIDS Sector Unit” means a team within each of the Recipient’s 
PSO (as hereinafter defined), in charge of preparing and implementing an Action Plan for 
said PSO; 
 (n) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the CNLS and a PSO (as hereinafter defined) for the purpose of carrying 
activities under an Action Plan referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(o) 
“Micro-Project” means specific activities in the fight against HIV/AIDS 
to be carried out by a CSO and financed, or proposed to be financed, through a Micro-
Grant (as hereinafter defined) under the Project; 
(p) 
“Micro-Grant” means a sub-grant to be made out of the proceeds of the 
Grant to finance a Micro-Project; 
(q) 
“Micro-Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the CNLS or CDLS, as the case may be, and a CSO, referred to in paragraph 4 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(r) 
“MOHP” means the Ministry of Health and Population of the Recipient; 
(s) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient; 
(t) 
“Orphans” means children under to the age of 16 who have lost one or 
both parents; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(u) 
“OVC” means orphans and other vulnerable children; 
(v) 
“PES” means the permanent executive secretariat of the CNLS the 
specific attributions of which are defined in 
arrêté
 No. 200 dated February 3, 2003 (the 
“PES Decree”); 
(w) 
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS;  
(x)  
 “Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual to be 
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, including, 
inter alia
,
policies, financial, administrative, 
procurement and accounting procedures as well as guidelines to be followed in the 
implementation and monitoring of each and all components of the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to the PIM; 
(y) 
“Project Preparation Facilities” means the project preparation facilities 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the Letters of Agreement signed 
respectively on behalf of the Association on January 13, 2003, and on 
 
November 26, 2003, and on behalf of the Recipient on January 28, 2003, and on 
December 22, 2003. 
 
(z) 
“PSO” means a public sector organization including sector ministries, 
secretariats of state, parastatal companies and public agencies existing and operating 
under the laws of the Recipient; 
(aa) 
“Second Generation Accounts” means the accounts referred to in  
Part B. 8 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(bb) 
“Special Account A” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Parts A, D.1, D.2 and D.3 of the 
Project, and referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(cc) 
“Special Account B” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Parts  B and C of the Project, and 
referred to in  Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(dd)  
“Special Account C” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Parts D.4 of  the Project, and referred 
to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ee) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Account A, Special Account B and 
Special Account C; 
(ff) 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infections; and 
(gg) 
“TANGO” means a technical assistance NGO, recruited to provide 
technical assistance to a CSO for the preparation and implementation of Micro-Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 12,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i)  
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; 
(ii)  
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of a PSO to meet the reasonable costs of goods and 
services to be financed under Part A of the Project out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and 
 (iii)  
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of a CSO to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works 
and services required for Micro-Project to be financed under Part 
B
of the Project out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Facility withdrawn and outstanding 
Page  7
-
6
-
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the 
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Facility shall thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of  
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in currency specified in this Agreement  or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
2.04.  Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on 
 
March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient.  
Section 2.06. The currency of Republic of France is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through CNLS and CDLS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and public health practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the future achievement of the operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. By October 31, 2004, at the latest, the Recipient shall have 
appointed the independent auditor satisfactory to the Association referred to in  
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements according to financial and accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year (or other period determined 
by the Association) audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period determined by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period determined by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts, and the report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 (c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-Based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least two years after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  10
-
9
-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statement of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period 
determined by the Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section. 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have a technical audit, the conditions of which are defined in 
more details in the Project Implementation Manual, carried out 
to review procurement, statements of expenditures, and 
immobilizations as well as verifying the physical existence of 
Page  11
-
10
-
goods, equipments and services acquired throughout the Project 
for each period running from July 1 of each fiscal year through 
June 30 of the following fiscal year (or other period determined 
by the Association) (the Technical Audit Period), by independent 
technical auditors acceptable to the Association; and 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of the Technical Review 
Period a report prepared by said technical auditors on said 
technical audit. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or the Project or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
(b) 
the CNLS Decree or any texts enacted for its application shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:  
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(b) 
the Recipient has employed the Fiduciary Management Agency 
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and established an accounting and financial management 
system for the Project satisfactory to the Association; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
the Recipient has amended the CNLS Decree, and any text enacted for its 
application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Economy, Finance 
and Budget is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
P.O. 2083 
Brazzaville 
Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile:     (242) 814 145 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI)  (202) 477 6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By: /s/ Serge Mombouli 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
A. General 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 40,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, equipment and 
vehicles; 
2,670,000 100% 
(3) Pharmaceutical 
560,000 
100% 
(4) Consultant Services and 
Audits 
(a)  Part A and D.1, D.2 
and D.3 of the Project 
(b) Part D.4 
 
1,590,000 
250,000 
 
100% 
100% 
(5) Training 
930,000 
100% 
(6) (a) Micro-Grants  
 
(b) Service contracts with    
TANGO 
 
1,670,000 
 
170,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
 
(expressed in SDR)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(7) Operating Costs 
 
(a)  Part A, C and D1, D2 
and D3 
 
(b)  Part D4 
 
2,220,000 
 
280,000 
 
100% 
 
(8) Refunding of Project 
Preparation Facility 
670,000 
Amount due 
pursuant to 
Section 2.02 
(b) of this 
Agreement
 
(9) Unallocated 
1,750,000 
_________ 
 
Total 12,800,000 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient, provided, however, 
that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be 
deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
(c) 
 “Operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, 
communication and insurance costs, Special Account banking charges, rental expenses, 
office maintenance costs, office equipment maintenance, utilities, documents 
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for travel 
Page  16
-
15
-
linked to the implementation of the Project and salaries of contractual staff for the 
Project, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(d) 
 “training” includes scholarships stipendiums, purchase of training 
materials, rental of training facilities, health insurance for travel abroad, per diem and 
travel costs. 
3.  
For purposes of this Agreement, it is understood that the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions of Letter 0426/MEFB-CAB from the 
Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient dated March 5, 2004 which provides 
for an exemption of taxes and custom duties levied in the territory of the Recipient on 
works, goods and services for this Project.  In the event of any change made to said letter 
which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such works, goods and 
services, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payment made for: 
(a) 
a Micro-Project unless the Micro-Grant has been made in accordance 
with eligibility criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Project 
Implementation Manual and paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(b) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Special Accounts to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (b) consultant services under 
contracts costing less than: (i) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and  
(ii) $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (c) Micro-Projects, training 
and Operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-Based Disbursements).  In 
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has 
been made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the  
six-month period following the date of such request. 
Page  17
-
16
-
B. SPECIAL 
ACCOUNTS
1. 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA 
three special deposit accounts (Special Accounts A, B and C) in a commercial bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and with the Project Implementation Manual, and shall be managed by the 
FMA, subject to the approval of PES. 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Categories” means for Special Account A, 
 
categories 1, 2, 3, 4.a, 5 and 7.a, for Special Account B, category 6, and for Special 
Account C, categories 4.b and 7.b as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
4. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.3 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:  
Page  18
-
17
-
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
 
Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as 
the case may be. 
6. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.3 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
7. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Accounts shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
Page  19
-
18
-
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
8. 
Upon completion of a financial management system review, to be found 
satisfactory by the Association, to evaluate the financial management system in place in 
each CDLS, the Recipient may additionally open and maintain in FCFA, for the benefit 
of each CDLS, one Second Generation Account of Special Account B, each in a 
commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and or attachment, and to be managed in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manuals by the FMA. 
9. 
(a)  
The Recipient shall withdraw from Special Account B and deposit into 
each Second Generation Account funds to assist each CDLS to pay for Micro-Grants and 
services to be provided by TANGO.  Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in amounts 
sufficient to assist each CDLS in the manner contemplated in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to pay for such Micro Grants and services in due course, provided that, at no 
time, shall the Recipient cause the amount held in any Second Generation Account to 
exceed FCFA 50,000,000. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal from any Second Generation Account must be justified 
to the Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible 
expenditures required pursuant to paragraph B.4 of this Schedule. 
(c) 
If the Association or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Second Generation Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the relevant CDLS shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association or the Recipient, refund to Special Account B such 
outstanding amount. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-Based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of FCFA 800,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account A pursuant to paragraph B.2 of this Schedule 1. 
2. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of FCFA 350,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account B pursuant to paragraph B.2 of Schedule 1. 
3. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of FCFA 70,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account C pursuant to paragraph B.2 of this Schedule 1. 
4. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to  
Part B.4
 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section
 
5.02
of
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining un-withdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
ANNEX B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-Based Disbursements
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in: (i) limiting the spread of 
HIV/AIDS and STIs
 in the Recipient’s population; (ii) mitigating the health and 
socioeconomic impact of HIV/AIDS and STIs on persons infected with or affected by 
HIV/AIDS and STIs within the Recipient’s territory; and (iii) building strong and 
sustainable national capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Public Sector Response 
1. 
Health Sector Response: supporting the MOHP in its initiatives against 
HIV/AIDS and STIs including, 
inter alia
:
(a)  improving the bio-medical waste 
management; (b) improving the quality of the blood transfusion system throughout the 
Recipient’s territory; (c) improving HIV counseling and voluntary testing and 
psychological support; (d) improving diagnosis, treatment and prevention of STIs;  
(e) promoting condom use and distribution of men’s and women’s condoms; and  
(f) setting up of a global system of care, support and treatment of PLWHA including 
“parents and child”; all through the provision of technical advisory services and training, 
the acquisition of goods and equipment. 
2. 
Multi Sector Response: Supporting PSOs in the implementation of measures to 
fight and mitigate the impact of the HIV-AIDS and STIs on communities through,  
inter alia
:
(a) information; (b) peer education; (c) communication for behavior change;  
(d) distribution of male and female condoms; and (e) adopt a legal framework appropriate 
to protect victims of HIV/AIDS and sexual violence; all through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training and the acquisition of goods and equipment.  
Part B
:
Civil Society Response
Supporting the mobilization of CSOs in their initiatives against HIV/AIDS 
through the preparation, implementation and management of Micro-projects aimed at 
HIV/AIDS prevention, provision of care and support and treatment and mitigation of 
HIV impact, all through the provision of Micro-Grants and the provision of technical 
advisory services in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
Part C
:
Orphans and OVC
Page  24
-
23
-
Investing in the social integration and education of OVC to limit future erosion 
of human capital by, 
inter alia
:
(a) identifying OVC using objective criteria included in 
the Project Implementation Manual; (b) providing medical insurance cards that provide 
for visit to health centers and medication; (c) providing registration fees for education 
and vocational training; (d) psychological support; and (e) improving socio-economic 
well being of OVC; all through the provision of technical advisory services and training 
in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
Part D
:
Management and Coordination, Capacity Building and Monitoring and 
Evaluation
1. 
Management and coordination: coordinating and supporting the CNLS with 
Project management activities including: (a) coordination of the Project, (b) updating the 
National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, (c) coordinating the preparation of Action Plans, as 
well as sectorial and regional work plans, and (d) carrying out financial management, 
accounting, procurement and data collection activities, as well as financial and technical 
audits; all through the provision of technical services and training and the acquisition of 
goods and equipment. 
 
2.   
Capacity Building: strengthening the capacity of CNLS, PSOs and CSOs in 
carrying out Project activities, through the provision of technical services and training 
and the acquisition of goods and equipment. 
3.   
Monitoring and Evaluation: supporting the CNLS, PSOs and CSOs in carrying 
out monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project; through the provision of 
technical services and training. 
4.   
Data Collection at the national level: acquisition of technical services and goods 
necessary to strengthen the capacity of the CNSEE
 within the Beneficiary’s Ministry of 
Plan to carry out a national demographic and health survey.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008.
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and pharmaceuticals shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods for contracts estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
and pharmaceutical products for HIV/AIDS and STI estimated to cost less than $100,000 
Page  26
-
25
-
equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines under contracts awarded on the basis of:  
(a) national shopping procedures, if available locally; or (b) international shopping 
procedures, if not available locally. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Proprietary items, such as HIV/AIDS testing reagent may be procured, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, from a particular manufacturer or an authorized local 
supplier in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, including pharmaceuticals and medical consumables, may be procured 
from, 
inter alia
,
the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United Nations 
(IAPSO), the United Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United 
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), and the World Health Organization 
(WHO), in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Micro-projects may, pursuant to paragraph 3.15 of the 
Guidelines, be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
defined in the Project Implementation Manual. 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more; (b) the first three contracts for goods estimated to cost less than 
$150,000; and (c) the first three contracts for works, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) 
and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- 
and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
Page  28
-
27
-
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial and technical audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Selection 
Based 
on
Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultant contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for training and the  demographic and health survey, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent may, with the Association’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines (including services for small studies) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. NGO
Services to be provided by NGOs shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
Page  29
-
28
-
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply with respect to the following, namely: (i) the contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more; (ii) the contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (iii) all contracts procured by sole source selection. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consultants and 
single source selections, regardless of value, the qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. General
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and the Bio-Medical Waste Management Plan, and shall not 
amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual and the Bio-
Medical Waste Management Plan without the Asso
ciation’s prior written approval. The 
Project Implementation Manual and the Bio-Medical Waste Management Plan will not be 
amended or waived if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
2. 
CNLS and CDLS
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain CNLS in a form and with functions, 
staffing, resources and operation satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
CNLS Decree and the Project Implementation Manual; 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause PES to carry out daily facilitation, 
implementation, monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the Project to include,  
inter alia
:
(i) the preparation of consolidated annual work programs and budgets for the 
Project; (ii) in collaboration with FMA, the preparation of FMRs in accordance with 
Section 4 of this Agreement; (iii) the preparation of reports on the status of Project 
implementation; and (iv) approving Action Plans and Micro-projects and entering into 
the relevant agreements in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
(c) 
the Recipient shall cause PES to furnish, not later than December 31, 
2004, and thereafter by December 31 of each year, to the Association for its review and 
approval, proposed detailed 12-month work plans, including the procurement plan,  
training programs and proposed budgets in respect of Project activities for the 
forthcoming year. 
(d) 
The Recipient shall cause CDLS to facilitate the implementation and 
coordination of the Project at the regional level to include, 
inter alia
,
approving Micro-
Projects and entering into the relevant agreements in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual.  
Page  31
-
30
-
3. Action 
Plans
(a) 
The Action Plans under Parts A of the Project shall be submitted by each 
PSO to PES for appraisal and approval, in compliance with the Project Implementation 
Manual, it being specified that no Action Plan may be approved until the relevant PSO 
has established a HIV/AIDS Sector Unit with a financial management system satisfactory 
to the Association. 
(b) 
Following receipt of the approved Action Plan, and prior to any 
financing of activities under an Action Plan, PES will enter into a Memorandum of 
Understanding with each PSO under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
and defined in the Project Implementation Manual, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include the 
following: 
(i) 
the obligation of the PSO to carry out activities under the Action 
Plan in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental, public health and managerial 
standards, and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Action Plan; 
(ii) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
compliance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement and used 
exclusively in carrying out activities agreed upon under the 
Action Plan; 
(iii) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, or if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites or plants financed under the Action Plan, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(iv) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information, as the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation and financial management of activities 
under the Action Plan; 
(v) 
the right of the Recipient, as the case may be, to suspend or 
terminate the right of the PSO to use or benefit from the 
proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the PSO to perform any of 
Page  32
-
31
-
its obligations under the Memorandum of Understanding or 
Action Plan and, as the case may be; and 
(vi) 
the right to receive from the PSO quarterly (or any other period 
agreed upon by the Association) progress reports reflecting, 
inter 
alia
,
the Action Plan’s performance indicators, and a final report 
upon completion of the Action Plan. 
4. Training 
and 
Workshops
Training and workshops shall be carried out on the basis of annual programs, 
which shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall, 
inter alia
,
identify: 
(a) the objective and content of training or workshop envisaged; (b) the selection method 
of institutions conducting such training or workshop; (c) the expected duration and an 
estimate of the cost of said training or workshops; and (d) the personnel selected to attend 
the training or the workshop. 
5.  
Micro-Projects
(a) 
Micro-Projects shall be prepared with the assistance of TANGO and 
submitted by each CSO to PES or to a CDLS, as the case may be, for appraisal and 
approval, in compliance with the Project Implementation Manual, it being specified that 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Micro-Project shall be 
eligible for financing under a Micro Grant out of the proceeds of the Grant unless the 
PES or a CDLS, as the case may be, has determined so on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with criteria and the guidelines set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and including, 
inter alia
 that the proposed activities and CSO 
must be eligible and that the CSO has the legal capacity to contract under the laws of the 
Recipient. 
 
(b) 
Micro-Projects shall be carried out pursuant to Micro-Grant Agreements, 
to be entered into by PES or CDLS, as the case may be, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(i) 
a description of the approved Micro-Project, with its budget and 
performance indicators; 
Page  33
-
32
-
(ii) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
(iii) 
the obligation to: (A) carry out the Micro-Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, technical and financial standards taking into 
account environmental and ecological implications and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual; (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the 
Project Implementation Manual, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Micro-Project; and (C) maintain 
adequate reporting in accordance with the standards specified in 
the Project Implementation Manual; 
(iv) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and referred to in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Micro-Project; 
(v) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites and plants included in the Micro-Project, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(vi) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the 
Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request regarding 
the administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
Micro-Project; and  
(vii) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the 
CSO to use the proceeds of Grant for the Micro-Project upon 
failure by the CSO to perform any of its obligations under the 
Micro-Grant Agreement. 
Page  34
-
33
-
6. 
Reports and MidTerm Review
Reports
The Recipient shall: 
(i) 
implement maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance 
with the Project Implementation Manual and performance 
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(ii) 
prepare, under the conditions provided for in the Project 
Implementation Manual terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 
January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31of each year, or at 
any later date agreed with the Association, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph 5 
above and including beneficiaries’ 
feedback reports and Micro-Project completion reports, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar quarter preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof 
during the calendar quarter following such date; and 
(iii) 
review with the Association, not later than one month after the 
submission of the report referred to in paragraph (ii) above, or at 
any later date agreed with the Association, the report referred to 
in paragraph (ii) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
(b) Midterm 
Review
(i) 
Not later than June 30, 2007, or any other period agreed upon by 
the Association, the Recipient shall carry out jointly with the 
Association a midterm review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). 
Page  35
-
34
-
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things progress 
made in meeting the Project’s objective; and overall Project 
performance against Project performance indicators. 
(ii) 
The Recipient shall cause PES to prepare and furnish to the 
Association, not later than April 15, 2007, a separate report 
describing the status of implementation of each component of 
the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally, including, in particular, the results of project 
beneficiary assessments. 
(iii)  The Recipient provides the Association, no later than 
 
September 30, 2007, with a working plan satisfactory to the Association integrating the 
results of the Midterm Review for future satisfactory implementation of the Project and 
Program.
 
Page  36
-
35
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.02 (l), 6.05, Article VII, are deleted 
in their entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) The 
term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in Sections 6.02 (a) 
(ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02  Currencies in  which Commitment  Charges  are  Payable 
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”. 
Page  37
-
36
-
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit 
agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  38
-
37
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Indicators 
Outcome
1. 
By the end of the Project, 60% of adults aged 15 to 49 used a condom during 
their last sexual contact with a casual partner (from 40%). 
2. 
By the end of the Project, 90% of adults aged 15 to 49 report knowledge of 
vertical transmission (mother to child)  (from 60%) and 90% mention condom 
use as preventive measure . 
3. 
By the end of the Project, 70% of women attending prenatal consultations accept 
voluntary testing for HIV (from PN>90%). 
4. 
By the end of the Project, HIV prevalence among 15 to 24 years old pregnant 
women is under 2% and under 1.5% among 14 to 19 years old men (from 2.4% 
and 1.9% respectively). 
5. 
By the end of the Project, the prevalence of STI among pregnant women is not 
more than 2% (from 3%). 
Performance and Monitoring
6. 
By the end of the Project, 13 HIV and STI sentinel sites are functional (from 0). 
7. 
By the end of the Project, 23 health facilities provide quality treatment of STI in 
five 
départements
 covered under the Project (from 0). 
8. 
By the end of the Project, more than 80% of pregnant women tested positive get 
benefit from the global care, support and treatment strategy. 
9. 
By the end of the Project, less than 20% of sale points experienced a shortage of 
condoms in the last month. 
10. 
By the end of the Project, all of the 12 selected sector ministries are 
implementing more than 80% of the agreed Action Plan. 
Page  39
-
38
-
11. 
By the end of the Project, disbursement for community, civil society and private 
sector initiatives reaches at least 70% of planned level. 
12. 
By the end of the Project, 90% of the population is reached through HIV/AIDS 
Information Education Communication /BCC radio/television. 
13. 
By June 2005, data for the monitoring of outcome and impact indicators are 
collected regularly. 
 
Page  40
-
39
-
