      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020075


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P106038                                         BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                               Additional Financing
 Brazil                                          Transport & ICT                                   P117122



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  COFN-C1150,IBRD-75060,IBRD-78200                     30-Jun-2013                                                            1,711,460,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  01-May-2008                                          30-Apr-2015

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           662,910,000.00                                                          0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            662,910,000.00                                                          0.00

  Actual                                                        662,910,000.00                                                          0.00




 Sector(s)
 Urban Transport(99%):Sub-national government administration(1%)

 Theme(s)
 City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery(100%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            John R. Eriksson                    Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project development objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 6) and in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, page
    6) had two sub-objectives, as follows:
    (a) improve the level-of-service provided to the urban rail transport users in the São Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR) in a safe and cost-
    efficient manner by increasing the peak-hour and off-peak carrying capacity of Lines A and F of the Companhia Paulista de Trens
    Metropolitanos(CPTM) and Lines 1, 2 and 3 of the São Paulo Metro Company (SMSP or "Metro"): and (b) continue the strengthening of the
    transport management and policy framework in the SPMR.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     Infrastructure and Equipment. estimated cost at appraisal US$1438.22 million, additional financing estimate US$150.57 million, actual
     cost at closure US$1459.10 million). This component had two sub-components.
     Sub Component One: This sub component planned to finance activities for the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Train Company (Companhia
     Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos, CPTM) network. Activities included: (i) acquisition of forty trains (Electrical Multiple Units-EMUs) of eight
     cars each and accessories for a total of 320 cars to be operated in Line A and Line F of the CPTM network; (ii) installation
     and rehabilitation of traction electrical power systems, electrical cabinets and auxiliary power lines for the selected substations; (iii)
     installation of a signaling system; (iv) supply and installation of an electronic telecommunication system for the lines A and F; and (v)
     associated civil works.
     Sub Component Two: This sub component planned to finance activities for the Sao Paulo Metro Company ( Companhia do Metro de Sao
     Paulo, CMSP) network, commonly known as the "Metro," which will henceforth be used to designate this network. Activities included: (i)
     acquisition of seventeen trains of six cars each and accessories for a total of 102 cars to be operated in Lines One and Three of
     the network; (ii) installation of a new signaling system in Lines one, two and three; (iii) installation of a telecommunications and access
     control system and platform screen doors; and (iv) modernization of the Operations Control Center for Lines One, Two and Three.
     Institutional and Policy Development: (estimated cost at appraisal US$33.64 million, additional financing estimate US$2.45 million,
     actual cost at closure US$50.58 million). This component planned to finance technical assistance (TA) to the three agencies: The Sao
     Paulo Secretariat for Metropolitan Transport (STMSP). the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Train Company (CPTM) network and
     the Metro network.
     Assistance to the STMSP included: (i) consolidation of the Integrated Transport Coordination Commission; (ii) updating the current
     integrated transport policy and Land Use and Air Quality Management strategy to meet transport quality targets and introduce cost-
     recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies; and (iii) preparation of an action plan for reviewing the funding of the urban transport
     system in view of the adoption of the Single Integrated Fare Ticket system (Bilhete Unico Integrado, BUI). This system allowed users to
     buy a single ticket that could be used across transport modes during a two-hour period.
     Assistance to CPTM included: (i) studies to evaluate the outsourcing to the private sector (activities such as maintenance of tracks and
     systems, rolling stock and other operational services) and (ii) assessing the impact of the project on low income urban rail transport users.
     Assistance to the Metro network included: (i) accessing the project's impact on low income users and (ii) provision of financing for the
     operating costs of the Sao Paulo Project Management Unit.
     Following the approval of additional financing for the project on 01/01/2010, the scope of the project was expanded as follows: (i)
     acquisition of at least nine trains of eight cars and related accessories for CPTM to increase the capacity on Line 11-Coral; (ii) TA for
     designing a climate change strategy; (iii) TA for managing and supervising the implementation of the new trains; and (iv) an additional
     financing loan that financed about 75% of the total estimated project cost of new trains and equipment for CPTM.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: Estimated cost at appraisal was US$1,548.63.00 million. Additional Financing had an estimated cost of US$161.19 million.
     With additional financing, the cumulative estimated project cost was US$1,709.82 million. Actual cost at closure was
     US$1,686.40 million. The team clarified that actual cost was lower than the appraisal estimate as some activities had not been completed
     at closure and are ongoing.
     Project Financing: The project was financed by an original IBRD loan of US$550.00 million and additional financing of US$112.90
     million. The cumulative IBRD loan for the project was US$662.90 million. At project closure, US$662.90 million was disbursed. The
     project was co-financed by the Japan Bank of International Cooperation (JBIC). The appraisal estimate from the co financier was
     US$535.00 million and at closure, US$510.00 million of this had been disbursed.
     Borrower Contribution: At appraisal, the borrower planned to contribute US$513.50 million and its contribution at closure was as
     planned. The ongoing activities were to be completed by the Borrower using their own funds.
     Dates: The approval of additional financing did not change the original project closing date. There was one level two project restructuring
     on December 2012. Following this restructuring, the closing date for the original loan was extended to April 30, 2015 and the closing
     date for the additional loan was extended to October 31, 2014. This extension was provided in view of the implementation delays, caused
     by the unforeseen technical issues associated with implementing the rail project in “brownfield” areas (that is, while the trains were still
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)



    operating).
    The project closed 22 months beyond schedule on 04/30/2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The project development objectives were highly relevant to the transport needs of Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR) in Brazil. Brazil
   had been experiencing steady economic growth in the years prior to appraisal and this growth had led to a considerable increase
   in motorized vehicle ownership. Of the estimated 39 million person trips that took place in 2007 in the region, 33% were by foot, 37% by car
   and the rest by public transport (23% by bus, 4.5% by metro rail and 2.5% by suburban rail). The over reliance on cars and motorcycles.
   besides having a negative effect on air quality, had contributed to an increase in road accidents.
   In the years prior to appraisal, despite having 315 km of rail network, the lack of integration between the public modes of transport, had
   discouraged low income users from using public transport in the region. The state of Sao Paulo had started a series of investments in the late
   1990’s aimed at integrating public transport systems. The integrated system allowed commuters to transfer between transport modes free of
   charge within a two hour period. The introduction of the system led to a dramatic increase in demand for rail based systems, with demand for
   rail services, increasing by 12% between 2006 to 2007. About 40% of the total demand for rail services came from low-income users at the
   appraisal stage. Given this increase in demand for rail services, it was important for the government to meet demand through increasing both
   the carrying capacity and the frequency of trains, especially at peak hours.
   The project development objectives continues to be relevant to the Bank strategy for Brazil. At the appraisal stage, the Country Partnership
   Strategy for the 2008-2011 period emphasized the need for promoting growth through strengthening public sector management, promoting
   competitiveness and environmental sustainability. The project development objective was also highly relevant to the Bank’s overall transport
   strategy and the customized sectoral strategy for Brazil. The objectives of the transport strategy included: (i) improving public transport in
   urban areas as a means to improve access to jobs, education and health facilities; (ii) contributing to poverty alleviation; and (iii) improving
   financial performance of service providers through better cost recovery measures and reducing dependence on public subsidies.
   The project development objectives were relevant to two of the objectives of the CPS for the 2011-2015 period. Objective three of the CPS
   identified the need for promoting regional economic development in Brazil through: (i) expanding investments in transport infrastructure
   projects including through rail-based transport systems and (ii) supporting improvements in urban transport governance through focusing on
   integrating transport in the broader context of city planning. Objective four of the CPS identified the need for improving sustainable natural
   resource management and climate resilience through among other things, supporting the efforts aimed at developing and implementing
   strategies for promoting low carbon growth and climate change mitigation action plans at the city level.




   Rating
   High


b. Relevance of Design

   The statement of the project development objectives was clear and the causal links between the project activities, their outputs and final
   outcomes were logical. And the intended outcomes were measurable. The design aptly included both civil works activities and activities aimed
   at institutional strengthening of the Regional Transport Coordination Commission and other state transport agencies. Exogenous positive
   benefits to the environment due to the lower emission of pollutants by the rail transport mode were identified at the appraisal stage.
   The outputs of Component One activities were expected to increase the rail capacity of the CPTM and the Metro (CMSP) and this in turn
   was expected to by increase the frequency of delivery of rail services both at peak and at off peak hours. This in turn was expected
   to improve service delivery to urban rail transport users in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region. The outputs of Component two technical
   assistance activities were expected to strengthen the capacity of the state transport agencies. This in turn was expected to improve
   the management and policy capability of the relevant transport agencies in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region. The combination of these
   activities was to contribute to providing affordable and accessible urban transport services to users, particularly low-income families.This in turn
   was expected to contribute to the higher level objectives of equity and sustained poverty reduction in Brazil.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     There were two sub-objectives. (a) To improve the level-of-service provided to the urban rail transport users in the São Paulo Metropolitan
     Region. (b) To continue the strengthening of the transport management and policy framework in the SPMR. The efficacy of achieving these
     objectives is assessed and rated separately.

    Rationale
    Objective (a): To improve the level-of-service provided to the urban rail transport users in the São Paulo Metropolitan Region. rated
    as Substantial.
    Outputs:

        • The following activities involving the CPTM and Metro networks were completed as targeted. Acquisition of forty Electrical Multiple Units
        (EMUs) of eight cars each and accessories in Lines A and F, six cars in Lines 1 and 3 and nine cars in Line 11-Coral.
        • 76% of the activities pertaining to CPTM systems were completed at closure. This included installation and rehabilitation of their traction
        electrical power systems, electrical cabinets, auxiliary power lines and of signaling electrical communication systems.
        • 75% of the activities pertaining to the Metro systems were completed at closure. This included installation of a new signaling
        system, platform screen doors and telecommunication and access control systems. The implementation of these activities was subject to
        delays associated with implementing brownfield activities (that is,railway upgrading activities while trains were operational). This meant
        that activities could be conducted done only in a small time window, generally from 1 a.m to 4 a. m.


    Outcomes:

        • The targets for the frequency of trains in peak and non peak hours were exceeded in Lines 7 and Line 12 of the Sao Paulo Metropolitan
        Region (STMSP). The frequency of trains during peak and off peak hours increased to 19 and 15, respectively in Line Seven at project
        closure, as compared to the revised target of 15 and 8. In Line 12, it increased to 20 and 16 as compared to the target of 15 and
        8 respectively. In Line 11, the frequency of trains at peak and non peak hours was slightly lower than the target (15 and 7.5 at project
        closure as compared to the target of 15 and 8 respectively).
        • The number of trains in peak and non peak hours in the Metro lines increased, although targets were not realized. The number of trains
        in the peak hour/non peak hours in Metro Line One increased to 31 and 26 as compared to the target of 41 and 26. The corresponding
        figures for Metro Line Two were 25 and 18 respectively at closure as compared to the target of 28 and 18 and for Line Three, 35 and 31
        respectively as compared to the target of 44 and 28. The ICR (page 13) notes that although targets were not realized,, the actual comfort
        level in the peak hour service increased due to a new trip distribution through the metro network, after the introduction of Line 4. This in
        conjunction with changes in transport patterns produced a less pronounced peak in demand.
        • The number of passengers per square kilometer was reduced in all the CPTM lines though not to the extent as targeted. The ICR
        reported that the number of passengers per square kilometer in CPTM Lines 7 was reduced from eight at the baseline to 7.8 at project
        closure and as compared to the target of 6. The corresponding numbers for Line 11 and Line 12 at project closure was 7.2 as compared to
        the target of 6.
        • 1.35 million new users were using the system as compared to the target of 1.40 million users at project closure.
        • Metro's working ratio (defined as operating costs divided by operating revenues) declined to less than one as planned. CPTM's working
        ratio remained unchanged at 2. The ICR (page 13) notes that although CPTM's operating revenue increased by 70% during the 2008-
        2013 period, operating costs increased by 105% due to a combination of factors including increase in demand and no corresponding
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)



        increase in tariffs.
        • Although there were no indicators in the results framework to measure safety, data at project closure indicated that the number of
        accidents declined from nine in 2008 to five in 2914.


    A beneficiary survey was conducted during the 2010 to 2012 period to gauge the users' perception about rail services. The methodology
    included household-based surveys (with about 1,300 households surveyed in Sao Paulo) and onsite intercept surveys. The survey indicated
    that the Metro and CPTM rail systems were perceived by users as the transport mode with the most improvements (as compared to the bus
    system). Approval rates ranged from 50% to 70% for CPTM and from 50% to 80% for the Metro. The main reasons cited by the users
    included reduction in waiting times, decrease in trip times, the provision of new and modern cars and enhancement of train stations which
    contributed to better service delivery.
    An impact assessment of the Project was conducted by the Bank team using data from the 2012 Mobility Survey from Metro. The
    methodology entailed comparing the current scenario with rail improvements to counterfactual scenarios that considered that portion of the
    new users of the rail system who would have otherwise had to use less efficient transport modes (such as bus, cars and motorcycles) had the
    Project not been implemented. The benefits of the intervention were assumed to come through: (I) traffic volumes; (ii) travel time savings;
    and (iii) savings due to lower carbon dioxide emissions. The results indicated a 14% savings due to lower emissions, 21% savings in traffic
    volume and 9% in travel time savings.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Objective (b): To continue the strengthening of the transport management and policy framework in the SPMR.

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • TA to the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR) was completed as targeted. This included activities pertaining to the consolidation of
        the Integrated Transport Coordination Commission, updating the integrated transport policy, the land use and air quality management
        strategy, an action plan to review the funding of the urban transport system in view of the adoption of the integrated fare system and
        studies pertaining to evaluating the outsourcing of selected activities to the private sector.
        • TA to the CPTM network pertaining to the assessment of the project's impact on low income users was completed as targeted. The
        other TA activities (such as environmental plan, GIS support systems and a climate change mitigation plan) are ongoing and were
        not completed at project closure as targeted.
        • TA to the Metro network was completed as targeted. This included assessment of the project's impact on low income urban rail transport
        users and designing a climate change strategy.
        • Financing was provided for meeting the operating costs of the Sao Paulo Metro Project Management Unit as targeted.


    Outcome

        • The Integrated Urban Transport Project report was completed as targeted. The ICR notes that the report did not include a full long term
        plan as targeted.
        • Some TA activities were not completed by project closure and there is little evidence of outcomes associated with this activity.


    The efficacy of objective (a), to improve the level-of-service provided to the urban rail transport users in the São Paulo Metropolitan Region, is
    rated as Substantial. Most of the outcomes were realized and it is reasonable to conclude that the project aided in reducing waiting times
    and trip times, and thereby substantially contributed to improving service delivery to urban rail users in Sao Paulo Metropolitan region. The
    efficacy of objective (b), to continue to strengthening of the transport management and policy framework in the region, is rated as
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)



 Modest. Some TA activities had not been completed at project closure and given this, it is reasonable to conclude that the project made a
 modest contribution to realizing this project objective.


 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

A cost-benefit analysis was conducted both at appraisal and at closure for the railway infrastructure and equipment project component. This
component accounted for 97% of the total project cost. The methodology consisted in comparing the situation with and without the project and
quantifying the benefits. Project benefits were assumed to come from operating cost savings, travel time savings, reduction in road
maintenance costs, reduction in the cost associated with managing the bus system (alternative mode of transport) and reduction in air pollution
costs. Project costs included the costs associated with acquiring the trains and signaling systems and operating costs (including maintenance
costs). At project closure, the Net Present Value (NPV) of benefits was US$720 million and the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was
15.3%, as compared to the NPV of US$1.34 billion and EIRR of 21.4% at appraisal. The lower than expected NPV and the lower EIRR at
closure were due to the increase in costs and delays associated with completing the project. While there were savings associated with the
procurement process with the final contract values being 40% and 49% lower than the initial estimates, these were more than offset by the
lower than expected NPV and EIRR at closure due to the increase in costs and delays associated with completing the project.
There were administrative inefficiencies. The problems associated with implementing signaling upgrades in brownfields was underestimated.
Contracts signed at the implementation phase in 2008 and 2009 were subject to significant delays. Arbitration was put in place to resolve the
contractual disputes and the arbitration process was ongoing for two major contracts at project closure. At closure, the delivery of the
Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) was not fully operational..




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                             Rate Available?             Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                          97.00
 Appraisal                                                              21.40
                                                                                                          Not Applicable

                                                                                                          97.00
 ICR Estimate                                                           15.30
                                                                                                          Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objective was rated as High. Relevance of Design was rated as Substantial. The efficacy of Objective (a) was rated as
Substantial. Most of the outcomes were realized and it is reasonable to conclude that the project aided in reducing waiting times and trip times
and thereby substantially contributed to improving service delivery to urban rail users in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region. The efficacy of
Objective (b) was rated as Modest. Some TA activities had not been completed at project closure and given this, it is reasonable to conclude that
the project made a Modest contribution to realizing this project objective. Efficiency was rated as Modest. The ex post EIRR was lower than the
ex ante EIRR and there were administrative shortcomings and some activities were not completed at project closure.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)




a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Technical Risk: Some project activities were not completed at appraisal, and there is a modest risk that the non-completion of the activities will
limit the capacity of the network to provide users with adequate levels of service, especially if the demand continues to grow.
Financial Risk: The ICR provides little evidence on whether the Metro and CPTM networks have a compensation mechanism or alternative
sources of revenue to be self-financing. In view of this, there is a Modest risk that the continued expansion of the Metro and CPTM network may
not be financially sustainable under the current subsidized fare structure.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project was prepared based on the lessons learnt from prior urban transport projects in Brazil and urban projects around the world. At
     the appraisal stage, a technical evaluation was undertaken to compare the acquisition of new trains with other alternatives such as do
     nothing, rehabilitation or modernization of trains, acquisition of second hand trains and leasing of trains. Acquisition of new trains was
     deemed to be the appropriate cost effective solution, because other systems were not feasible and there were no available immobilized
     trains to be rehabilitated. Given that an Independent Evaluation Group’s evaluation of transport projects in Brazil, had identified the need for
     strengthening the monitoring and evaluation of such projects, the design correctly incorporated relevant indicators for monitoring. Several
     risks were identified (including the institutional risks) and appropriate risk mitigation measures were applied at appraisal. Appropriate
     measures were taken at the appraisal stage to ensure compliance with safeguards and fiduciary (financial and procurement management )
     issues (discussed in section 11). The implementation arrangements were apt at the design stage, considering that the two implementing
     agencies had implemented prior Bank financed projects and hence were familiar with Bank financial and procurement procedures.




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     There were 15 supervision missions over a seven year period, implying frequency of supervision missions of more than two per year. In
     addition, there were financial management, safeguards and procurement supervision missions twice a year. Adequate measures were
     adopted to ensure compliance with safeguard issues that arose during implementation (discussed in section 11). Supervision
     missions were responsive and adapted to the needs, such as supporting additional financing for expanding the scope of the project. The
     supervision team was also proactive and aided the Borrower during the project implementation phase by assisting them in settling disputes
     between the implementing unit and the providers and through follow up actions to deal with unexpected implementation problems in a
     timely fashion. This aided in adapting the project to changing circumstances.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)



   Satisfactory



9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  a. Government Performance
  The State of Sao Paulo’s commitment to the project was demonstrated by its providing the planned counterpart funds in a timely
  fashion. The cost estimates for the trains and each of the systems were in line with those acquired by other equivalent metro and suburban
  rail systems.
  The delays associated with engaging with the Regional Transport Coordination Commission and in the preparation of procurement
  documents, resulted in delays in the implementation of the Long Term Transport Plan.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  There were two implementing agencies: The Sao Paulo Metro Train Company (CPTM) and the Metro. Metro was an experienced
  organization with a department dedicated to supervising the project while CPTM had a leaner management structure and hence had to
  rely more on outside consultants. Both the agencies had prior experience with implementing Bank projects and hence were familiar with
  the Bank’s requirements regarding financial and procurement management.


     • There were shortcomings in the performance of the implementing agencies. At the implementation stage, CPTM was unable to
     secure sufficient windows for companies to complete project activities within the deadlines. Neither agency was able to make the
     companies provide detailed schedules that would enable quicker project implementation, nor were they able to effectively recover
     from delays. The delays were exacerbated by disputes involving two major signaling contracts. Both agencies were slow in identifying
     possible solutions when contracts started to under-perform.
     • There were temporary lapses or delays in procurement and these resulted in delays in completion of the installation activities
     (discussed in section 11).



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  There were six project outcome indicators for monitoring the project development objective of improving the level of service provided to
  the urban rail transport users in a safe and cost-efficient manner. These indicators, the number of trains that were operating at peak
  hours and off peak hours, reduction in travel times, passengers per square meter, the increase in demand for rail services, the increase
  in demand for rail services from low income users, the operating costs of the metro),were appropriate.
  There was only one indicator (completion of the integrated urban transport, land use and air quality strategy) for monitoring the project
  development objective of strengthening the transport management and policy capability of the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region.
  There were no indicators in the results framework to measure safety at the appraisal stage.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)




b. M&E Implementation
   The team clarified that Metro already had a system for collecting the data required for monitoring and once the indicators were selected for the
   project, the data was updated to ensure monitoring. The Sao Paulo Metro Company did not have such a system and technical assistance
   was provided to the staff for administering the monitoring of the indicators.




c. M&E Utilization
   Both metro and the Sao Paulo Metro Company continue to collect data on indicators such as frequency of service on peak and off peak
   hours, time taken and accidents. No information is available as to the use made of the data collected.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as "Category B" for environmental assessment purposes. One safeguard policy was triggered at appraisal:
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01).
   At the appraisal stage, an assessment was made of the overall environmental impact of the project and an Environmental Management Plan
   (EMP) was prepared and a specific environmental management unit was created by the implementing agency. The ICR (page 11) notes that
   at the Mid-Term Review, the project was found to be implemented in accordance with the environmental management plan.
   During the implementation phase, the Bank’s safeguard specialists raised a possibility that additional safeguards (Natural Habitats, Physical
   Cultural Resources and Pest Management) would have to be triggered, since some interventions related to the Sao Paulo Metropolitan
   Region’s modernization program. The ICR (page 11) notes that a specific due diligence was carried out during the implementation phase,
   and the results indicated that the Bank financed project had not created any significant impact with respect to Natural Habitats, Physical
   Resources and Pest Management and the region’s modernization program did not involve any resettlement activities.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. Both the implementing agencies had prior experience with Bank loans and were able to handle aspects related to
   the financial management of the project. The financial management of the project was in compliance with Bank procedures. The task team
   leader clarified that the audits were unqualified.
   Procurement Management: The implementing agencies were knowledgeable about Bank procurement procedures. Although there were
   temporary delays associated with implementing supervision and project management contracts, these were mainly due to scheduling the
   payment for the contracts. The schedule of payments of the contracts were skewed towards the initial deliveries of costly components and
   the contracts did not have adequate mechanisms for ensuring installation of such equipment. The task team leader clarified that there were
   no reported cases of mis procurement.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)



       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                    Reason for
Ratings                                    ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                    Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                    Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory              ---
Risk to Development Outcome                Modest                              Modest                               ---
Bank Performance                           Satisfactory                        Satisfactory                         ---
Borrower Performance                       Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory              ---
Quality of ICR                                                                 Substantial                          ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR draws the following main lessons from implementing this project.

     1 A longer implementation period may need to be considered while implementing brownfield rail projects (that is, while trains are
     operating on the lines). This project included upgrading of the signaling systems and civil works for railway lines. As these lines were
     carrying more than a million passengers daily, an interruption in operations was not feasible, and work had to be conducted only during a
     small time window, generally from 1 a.m to 4 a.m. The experience of this project showed that it may be useful to consider a realistic time
     frame in designing a railway project while the trains are operational and there is only a small time window for construction work.
     2 Designing payment schedules that provide incentives for successful installation may be useful for minimizing the risks
     associated with incomplete deliveries. In the case of this project, the systems contract specified large payments for delivering equipment,
     since this equipment had a large weight in the financial proposal. However, in terms of complexity of the activities involved, installation can
     be a critical part. Since providers in the case of this project were paid a large percentage of the contract value when the components were
     delivered, the contractors had less incentive for installation of such equipment, and this contributed to delays during the implementation
     phase.
     3 It would be useful to have Indicators of reliability and safety in the results framework in projects of this kind. This project
     incorporated upgrading permanent ways and signaling, and these can be expected to improve the delivery of rail services. Pertinent
     indicators such as service stoppages (in units/months or hours/months) and punctuality (in percentage of on time trips) can better indicate
     progress towards project development outcomes.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and evidence based. It provides a candid discussion of the problems that were encountered at the implementation
stage.
The table provided in Annex 1 on project cost is confusing and it is difficult to disentangle the figures for actual project cost and total actual
costs of the project components. A more sparing use of acronyms would also have helped in making for easy reading.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sao Paulo Trains and Signalling(P106038)




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
