Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12993-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
DECENTRALIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY
EDUCATION PROJECT
AUGUST 12, 1994
Human Resources Operation Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Argentine Peso (A$)
Official Rate: US$1 = A$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metic syem
1 meter (m.)           =        3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km.)      -        0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (ke2) =      0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m. ton)    =       1.1 US short ton (sh. ton)
1 liter (1.)           =        0.264178 US gallon (gal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
March 15 to December 15



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBU               Basic Unified Cycle
(Ciclo Basico Unificado)
CFCE              Federal Council of Culture and Education
(Consejo Federal de Cultura y Educaci6n)
CGE               General Council of Education
(Consejo General de Educaci6n)
CRIE              Educational Information Center
(Centro de Informaci6n Educativa)
DDSR              Debt and Debt Service Reduction
(Prestamo parta la Reducci6n de la Deuda Externa)
DRAES             Delegation for Educational Administration
(Delegaciones Regionales de Administraci6n Educativa)
FEL               Federal Education Law
(Ley Federal de Educaci6n)
FSAL              Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Prestamo de Ajuste del Sector Financiero)
GP                Provincial Govemment
(Gobiemo Provincial)
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
(Licitaci6n Pu'blica Internacional)
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
LAPAME             La Pampa Ministry of Education
(Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Pampa)
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
(Licitaci6n Pdblica Local)
MCCI              Ministry of Culture, Science and Technology, Mendoza
(Ministerio de Cultura, Ciencia y Tecnologfa, Mendoza)
MIS               Management Information System
(Sistema de Infbrmaci6n Gerencial)
NGO               Non-Government Organizations
(Organizaciones no Gubernamentales)
NMCE              National Ministry of Culture and Education
(Ministerio Nacional de Cultura y Educaci6n)
NMIS              National Management Information System
(Sistema Nacional de Infbrmaci6n Gerencial)
NPCU              National Project Coordination Unit
(Unidad Nacional de Coordinacidn del Proyecto)



NSAS               National Student Assessment System
(Sistema Nacional de Medici6n Educativa)
OAS                Organization of American States
(Organizaci6n de Estados Americanos)
PCC                Project Consultative Council
(Comite de Consulta)
PERAL              Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
(Prestamo para la Reforma de las Empresas Publicas)
PME                Provincial Ministries of Education
(Ministerios Provinciales de Educaci6n)
PPCUs              Provincial Subproject Coordination Units
(Unidades Provinciales de Coordinaci6n de Subprojectos)
PROCEMA            Compensatory Program for Adult Secondary Education
(Programa de Compensaci6n para la Educaci6n de Adultos)
PSRL               Public Sector Reform Loan
(Prestamo para la reforma del Sector publico)
SAS                Student Assessment System
(Sistema de Medici6n Educativa)
SOEs               Statement of Expenditures
(Cuenta de Gastos)
SSMTAL             Social Sector Management Technical Assistant Loan
(Prestamo de Assistencia Tecnica para la Administraci6n de los
Sectores Sociales)
SUPEM              Subsecretariat of Educational Programming
(Subsecretaria de Programaci6n Educativa)
UNESCO/OREALC United Nations, Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization/
Oficina Regional de Educaci6n para America Latina y el Caribe
WID                Women in Development
(Mujeres en Desarrollo)



ARGENTINA
DECENTRALIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY
EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ............................                                             - vi
I.     THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND  ................                                        1
A.    The Economic Setting ..............................                                   1
B.     The Social Sector  ................................                                 2
II.    THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..............................                                         4
A.    Overview   .....................................                                     4
B.     Main Issues in Secondary Education .....................                            11
C.     Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy ................                        18
D.     Bank Role and Strategy .............................                                21
IZ.    THE PROJECT  ......            .............               ...................             28
A.    Project Objectives .................................                                 28
B.     Project Components ...............................                                  28
C.     Project Description   ...............................                               29
IV.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN  ........                       ..       ..........        39
A.    Cost of the Project ................................                                 39
B.     Financing Plan  ..................................                                  39
C.  Education Sector Budget for FY94 and Beyond .41
D.  Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project.42
E. Project Sustainability.42
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which visited Argentina in October
1993, and March 1994, respectively. The missions mere comprised by Messrs/Mmes. Julian Schweitzer
(Division Chief), Luis Pisani (Principal Operations Officer and Mission Leader), Bernardo Kugler (Senior
Economist), Shahrzad Gohari (Operations Officer), William Experton (Economist), Guiomar De Mello
(Education Specialist), Jorge Valenzuela (Human Resources Economist), and Marta Ospina (Operational
Assistant), Jose Augusto Carvalho (Senior Counsel, LEGLA), Joseph P. Formoso (Disbursement Officer,
LOAEL); and consultants to the Bank: Messrs./Mmes. Luis Secco (Architect), Robert McMeeken (Human
Resources Economist), Erika Himmel (Educational Assessment Specialist), and Ms. Anita Artaza (Operational
Assistant). Peer reviewers for this operation are: Messrs Eduardo Velez (Senior Education Specialist), and
Bruno Laporte (Principal Education Specialist). Ms. Aracelly Woodall (Staff Assistant) provided assistance in
the production of the report. This report was edited by Mr. William Mayville (Editor). The Department
Director, Acting Project Advisor, and Sector Division Chief were: Messr. Ping-heung Loh, Stefan Alber-
Glanstaetten, and Julian F. Schweitzer. Further processing of this project after negotiations was carried out by:
Messrs. Paul Meo (Acting Director), Orville Grimes (Project Adviser), and Alain Colliou (Division Chief).



Thble of Contents
Page No.
V.    IMPLEMENTATION, PROJECT MANAGEMENT, PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT, AUDMNG, MONITORING, AND SUPERVISION  ...                     45
A.   Status of Preparation  ..............................                 45
B.    Implementation Schedule ............................                 45
C.    Project Management ...............................                   45
D.    Procurement ...................................                      47
E.    Accounts and Disbursements ..........................                51
F.    Audits .......................................                       53
G.   Project Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision ..............        54
VI.   EXPECTED BENEFIS AND RISK ...........             ..      ............     55
A.   Expected Benefits ................................                    55
B.    Risks ........................................                       55
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . .57
A. Agreements .57
B. Recommendation .58
ANNEXES AND CHARTS
ANNEX A: Comparative Education Indicators .......................                59
ANNEX B: Organization and Structure of the Educational System ....    .......    60
Chart B.1:  Organizational Chart for the NMCE and the PMEs ....      ........    61
Table B. 1:   Pre and Post 1993 Educational Structure ...................        62
Tkble B.2:   Distribution of Financial, Technical, and Administrative
Responsibilities Between the NMCE and PMEs ..............            63
ANNEX C: Secondary Education Enrollment and Efficiency ..............            65
Table C. 1:  Evolution of Enrollment, by Educational Level,
Selected years .66
Table C.2:   Average Annual Enrollment Growth Rate, in Percent .66
lhble CG3:   Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools in the Public and
Private Systems, 1991 .67
Table C.4:   Enrollment, Tbachers and Schools in the Project
Provinces (1991) .68
TbLble C.5:   Average Number of Secondary Students per School,
and Average Student per Teacher .69
Thble C.6:  Average Drop-out Rates in Secondary Education .69
Table C-7:   Average Rates of lYansition from Primary to Secondary Education ...  69
Table C.8:   Average Repetition Rates ............................               70
Tbble C.9:   Average Completion Rates ...........................                70
Table CIO:  Percentage of Secondary Enrollments on 'Ibtal Enrollments ........   71



able of Cont
hapNo.
ANNEX D:         Part I: Education, Sector Budget Financing, and Expenditures         72
Table D. 1:      Public Expenditure on Education, 1992-94,
by Source of Spending .72
Table D.2:       Public Expenditure on Education by Level of Education                72
Table D.3:       Tbtal Education 'Expenditure, all Jurisdictions, by Level: 1992-94   73
Chart D. 1:      Composition of Expenditure on Social Services
by National Administration .74
Chart D.2:       Composition of Expenditure by National Administration                75
Table D.4:       Education as Percent of Total Public Spending in Seven
Provinces: 1984-93  ...........................                    76
Table D.5:       Private Education Subsidy  ........................                  77
Table D.6:       Private Expenditures on Education by Jurisdiction, 1991   ......     78
Table D.7:        Sources and Uses of the Education Sector Budget, year 1991 ...      79
Tble D.8:        Personnel as Share of 'Ibtal Education Sector Spending in
Seven Provinces, 1984-93 ........................                  79
Table D.9:       Transfer of Educational Services, year 1992 ....     ...........     80
'Able D1O:       National Administration Composition of Budgetary Expenditure
by Institution  ...............................                    81
ANNEX D:         Part II: Estimate Benefits Arising from the Project ....   .....     82
ANNEX E:         National and Provincial Government Policy and Strategy    ......     85
ANNEX F:         National Subproject ............................                     105
ANNEX G:          Cordoba Subproject ............................                     110
ANNEX H:         La Pampa Subproject ...........................                      115
ANNEX I:         Mendoza Subproject ............................                      120
ANNEX J:         Misiones Subproject ............................                     126
ANNEX K:         Neuquen Subproject ............................                      132
ANNEX L:         Rio Negro Subproject ...........................                     138
ANNEX M:         Santa Fe Subproject ............................                     144
ANNEX N:         Project CostTables  ............................                     149
'able N.1.1-3:    Total Project Cost Tables .........................                 149
Table N.2.1-3:    Naci6n Subproject Cost Tables  .....................                151
Table N.3.1-3:    Cordoba Subproject Cost Tables .....................                153
Table N.4.1-3:    La Pampa Subproject Cost Thbles ....................                155
Table N.5.1-3:    Mendoza Subproject Cost Thbles .....................                157
Table N.6.1-3:    Misiones Subproject Cost Tables .....................               159
Table N.7.1-3:   Neuquen Subproject Cost Tables  ....................                 161
Table N.8.1-3:    Rio Negro Subproject Cost Tables  ...................               163



Table of Content
Page No.
Table N.9. 1-3:   Santa Fe Subproject Cost Thbles ....................          165
Thble N. 10:    Detailed Project Cost by Component, Sub-component, Years
of Implementation .167
ANNEX 0:   Project Implementation Schedule .168
ANNEX P:  Project Management .169
Chart P.1:      Project Coordination Organizational Chart .175
Thble P. 1:     Distribution of Responsibilities for Project Implementation ....  176
Thble P.2:      Project Coordination Units (PCUs) Staffing Requirement
by Function .179
ANNEX Q:        Loan Quarterly Cumulative Disbursement Profile .180
ANNEX R:        Monitoring and performance indicators .181
Table R.1:  Impact Indicators .182
Tables R.2-9:    Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule ...  184
Thble R. 10:    Supervision Arrangement .........................               203
ANNEX S:        Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files    .......  204
MAP: IBRD #10450



-i-
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
DECENTRALIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY
EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Argentine Republic.
Beneficiary:      National Ministry of Culture and Education (NMCE) and seven
Selected Provincial Ministries of Education (PMEs), i.e. Cordoba, La
Pampa, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro and Santa Fel.
Amount:           US$190 million, equivalent, with retroactive finance of up to US$13
million.
Terms:            15-year repayment period including a grace period of five years with
loan amortization based on level repayments of principal.
PrQject Objectives:  The objective of the project is to: increase student learning in the
selected provinces by financing improvements in the quality and
efficiency of secondary education; increase/improve physical capacity
to serve the secondary-school-aged population more effectively and
strengthen institutional capacity in the PMEs under a decentralized
framework. The project would strengthen the capacity of the NMCE to
provide policy guidance and supervision, as defined by the FEL.
Additionally, the project would strengthen institutional capacity by: (i)
modemizing sector management; (ii) improving administrative
efficiency; and (iii) improving productivity.
prject Description: The project includes three components: (a) enhancement of education
quality: provision of in-service training and other programs for
upgrading the skills of teachers and administrators, establishing
mechanisms for assuring availability of textbooks and teaching
materials, and strengthening curriculum development; (b) institutional
strengthening: consolidating a new, downsized structure for NMCE by
providing technical and financial assistance to NMCE to operationalize
its new role in areas of curriculum, information, and student
assessment; and strengthening the seven participating provinces'
capacity in management, budgeting, and supervision. The project would
support a more efficient and simple administration of the sector. It
would support improved sector productivity, develop human resource
policies to ensure more disciplined management and control of sector
1. In Argentina there are a total of 23 provinces plus the Municipality of Buenos Aires.



-ii-
personnel, and develop management information and student assessment
systems; and (c) rehabilitation and maintenance of Dhysical
infrastructur: repair and rehabilitation of provincial schools and
essential infrastructure; and establishing systems for rational use and
continuing maintenance of buildings. About 82 percent of the loan
proceeds would be provided directly to the seven participating
provinces. The remainder would support the national component.
Benefits:          The project would: (a) contribute to a more educated and trainable
workforce by raising students cognitive achievement and problem
solving skills; (b) increase the opportunity of children in urban
marginal and rural areas to receive a better quality education thus
increasing their possibilities in the labor market and opportunities for
social mobility; (c) help consolidate the decentralization process by
strengthening provincial institutions, thus inducing more efficient
responses to local problems; and (d) help increase sector productivity,
thus creating net savings for the education sector which could be
reallocated to inputs which have a high impact on educational quality
(e.g., textbooks and teacher training).
:tislk:            The main risks associated with the project would be: (a) limited
implementation capacity at both the national and provincial levels as
well as limited sectoral experience with Bank financed projects; and (b)
unresolved policy decisions and political frictions among federal and
provincial governments arising from implementation of FEL such as
definition of new curriculum content, the criteria for compensation
policies towards the provinces, and funding implications.
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
ery  Category:   Not applicable; however, the project will invest in marginal areas with
a high incidence of poverty. The following activities will assist the
poor: provision of educational materials, which are a key factor in
efforts to improve educational quality; and construction and
rehabilitation of school facilities, which will also improve educational
quality by reducing overcrowded schools and facilitate access. The
project will also involve provincial areas with a high incidence of
poverty.



-iii-
(US$ Million)
Estimated Cos0t/                                                 Percent of
~~~Foreign           12W   BASe Cost
Nacion                          37.9          5.2       43.1        19.3
Cordoba                         16.0          5.4       21.4         9.6
La Pampa                        14.3          2.2       16.4         7.4
Mendoza                         37.9          7.9       45.8        20.5
Misionea                        16.7          2.1       18.8         8.4
Neuquen                         25.9          3.2       29.1        13.1
Rio Negro                       24.2          2.6       26.9        12.0
Santa F6                        18.7          2.7       21.5         9.6
Total Base Cost                i2L4          MA        222.9        100.0
Physical Contingencies           3.5          0.8        4.4
Price Contingencies             39.2          2.2       41.4
TQTALPROJECT COSTb/             234.3         34.5
Ein.anciuPlan                          Proiect Cos                                        Percent o Cost
SOUML                                        oureig    Loca    DsEut ies    Total Cost PrRjolaw
-il
Federal and Provincial            63.9          0.0       63.9        14.8       78.7        25      29
IBRD Loan                        155.5         34.5      190.0         0.0      190.0        75      71
Total                            219.4         34.5      253.9        14.8      268.7       100     100
TOTAL
Estimated IBRD Disbus  S         EY95         E7Y9       E122  E.                E12P
Annual                            29.4         51.8       45.9        30.6       32.3
Cumulative                        29.4         81.2      127.1       157.7      190.0
Economic Rate of Return        Not Applicable
*/ Totals may not add due to rounding
b/ Includes taxea mounting to US$14.8 million



-iv-
ARGENTINA
DECENTRALIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY
EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Circa 1990)
A.   General Country Data
GNP Per Capita U$ (1992)                                  $6,109.4
Area (Million km2)                                             2.8
Population Estimate (Millions)                                32.3
Density (inhabitants/km2)                                     11.0
Urban Population (% of Total)                                 87.0
B.   Basic Social Indicators
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                                   7.9
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                           1.4
Total Fertility Rate                                           2.8
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                             25.7
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)
Men                                                    67.0
Women                                                  74.0
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of persons 18 and over)               5.0
Average Schooling of Adults (years)                            8.5
C.   Basic Education Data
Enrollment Ratios (net):
Preschool (Age 3-5) (%)                                39.0
Primary (Age 6-13) (%)                                 90.0
Secondary (Age 13-18) (%)                              56.0
D.   Education Expenditure Data                   Billions of
pesos  1993    Percent ofD
Total Federal Education Spending        1.68            0.65
Total Provincial Education Spending     6.36            2.47
Total Municipal Educacion Spending      0.25            0.10
Total Public Education Spending         8.29            3.22
Total Public Spending by Education Level (all jurisdictions) 1993
Primary:       4.55 billion pesos or 54.9% of total
Secondary:     2.06 billion pesos or 24.9% of total
Higher:         1.67 billion pesos or 20.2% of total
Education Spending as % of total Federal Budget, 1994:    6.1%
Sourcec World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1990; World Bank, World Development Report,
1993; Situacion Educativa de America Latina y El Caribe 1980-89, UNESCO - OREALC, and Government of
Argentina, Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services, Secretariat of Economic Progamming.



DEFINITIONS
Adult Illiteracy Rate:              Percent of individuals over the age of 18 who do
not know how to read or write.
Average Schooling of Adults:        Average years of formal schooling completed
among individuals over the age of 18.
Cohort:                             A group of individuals having a statistical factor
(such as age, class, or year) in common.
Completion Rate:                    Number of students completing primary school as
a percentage of those entering in a given year,
regardless of the number of years it takes them to
complete.
Gross Enrollment Ratio:             The ratio of the total number of children enrolled
-regardless of age- to the number of school-aged
children in a given country, indicates the capacity
of the education system.
Internal Efficiency:                 Ratio of learning (a non-monetary outcome of
education) to the costs of educational input.
Internal efficiency addresses the question of how
funds within the education sector are allocated.
the objective is obtain the greatest educational
output for any given level of spending.
Net Enrollment Ratio:                Percentage of children of a given age group
enrolled in schools at a particular level of
education.
Rate of Population Growth:           Rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to a surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths, expressed as a
percentage of the total population.
Total Education Spending:            Federal and provincial education spending at all
levels of education plus private resources for all
levels.



-vi-
Total Federal Education Spending:      The yearly disbursement of resources to the
NMCE and PMEs, its centralized and
decentralized sectoral institutions, as well as the
subsidies for private and higher level institutions.
It also includes spending on special education,
adult education, and culture.
Transition Rate:                       Percentage of students who after finishing the last
year of basic education enroll in the first year of
the secondary cycle.



I. THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Setting
1.1   Argentina underwent a prolonged period of economic decline during the 1970s and
1980s. Savings and investment rates fell dramatically in response to an unstable economic
environment coupled with structural rigidity. Persistent public sector deficits caused endemic
inflation that could not be controlled by a series of stabilization programs. Capital flight in
response to the 'inflation tax' prevented job creation at home, thus contributing to increased
poverty. The currency was often devalued and public debt as a share of GDP doubled.
Consequently, Argentina, the most affluent Latin American country in 1962, fell to fourth
place by 1989, as national income per capita declined by about one fourth from that of the
mid 1970s.
1.2 Upon taking office during July 1989, the present Government undertook several
measures and structural reforms to address the sources of inflation, decline in investment and
saving, and productivity deterioration. To improve public finances and stimulate private
investment and productivity growth, the Government privatized public enterprises --an
important source of fiscal deficit-- and has terminated counterproductive interventions in the
markets. It has further avoided the persistent fiscal deficits by reorganizing federal
ministries (including education), reducing public employment, and improving revenue raising
and administration, and sharing revenue ("coparticipaci6n") with the provinces--provincial
revenue gains were estimated at US$1.2 billion in 1992. To further improve federal public
finances and to offset windfall provincial revenue gains due to improvements in raising and
collecting taxes, the Government also transferred responsibility for financing and provision of
the social services to the provinces, especially for secondary education' and public hospitals.
As a result of these and other government policies, the consolidated2 fiscal deficit of about
8.3% of GDP in 1989 was replaced by surplus of about 1.7% in 1993. The inflation, which
exceeded 1300% in 1990, dropped to an annual rate of less than 8% in 1993, while real
GDP grew at an average annual rate of 6% in 1993.
1.3   As Argentina has now emerged from the economic crisis and subsequently established
a solid base for sustainable development, the government is turning its attention to addressing
the large social deficits that if unattended could slow economic progress. Within the social
sectors, the role of the education system in supplying the human resources required for faster
economic growth and successful competition in global markets is crucial. In this context, the
Govemment has already passed (April 1993) a comprehensive Federal Education Law that
provides a framework for implementing the needed reforms to improve the coverage, quality,
and efficiency of education in the content of decentralized educational services and the
1.    All primiry schools were decentralized in 1978.
2.    Includes National Administration, Social Security, Public Enterprises, and quasifiscal balance of Central
Bank, and is calculated on the accrual basis.



resultant new roles for federal3 and provincial governments (Chapter 2 and Annex B, Table
B.2).
B. The Social Sector
1.4   Population Distribution, Migration, and Demand for Social Services. The
Argentine population of about 32 million has the lowest average growth rate in the region,
about 1.4%. Population distribution is not uniform, however, as about half is concentrated
within 300 kilometers of the capital, in the area known as the humid Pampa, while the
population density in the southern region ("Patagonia") rarely exceeds two persons per
kilometer. Strong internal and external migration in recent years, especially into the
northern, southern, and the so-called "Cuyo" provinces such as Misiones, Mendoza,
Neuquen and Rio Negro, has dramatically changed this pattern of population distribution.
Migrations into these provinces have swelled the population concentration and the poverty
ranks around large urban centers, increasing demand for social services, while draining the
population of the rural and small urban areas. Devising policies to cope with initial changes
in population distribution, which have induced a different pattern of demand for social
services like health and education, has posed a substantial challenge for provincial
authorities.
1.5   Employment. The economic change of the last decade has also affected the level and
structure of employment. High unemployment, about 10% in 1993, while encouraging
higher labor participation and secondary job seekers to maintain a given family income, has
also discouraged and hurt youth, women, and unskilled workers. Unemployment has been
especially severe in the northern provinces, which have also suffered long-term economic
structural problems as well as external immigration. The occupational structure of the
population has also evolved, as there has been a decline in employment in industry and
construction and an increase in both formal and informal services and commerce. The latter
types of employment also represent low productivity, low-paying jobs. Improved coverage
and better quality of education for youth, women, and unskilled workers not only increases
their chances of obtaining employment to supplement family income, but also improves their
social mobility by helping them to move into higher paying jobs.
1.6   Poverty and Education. Poverty is mainly an urban phenomenon in Argentina, since
about 85 % of the population lives in urban areas. While the exact magnitude of poverty in
recent years is unknown (recent data refer to the greater Buenos Aires area, where about
one-third of the population lives) some estimates suggest it may be as high as 10 million of
population of around 32 million. Poverty incidence in Metropolitan Buenos Aires is highest
among the currently unemployed . Inadequate income generating capacity, mostly due to
shortage of human capital stock in terms of educational achievement and job training, is
3.    This document refers to the Federal or National Government interchangeably.



generally known to be among the most important reasons in explaining why the population
remains poor since it limits workers' access to the job market. The inadequacy of the
income generating capacity, as reflected in the educational status of the household head,
seems to be particularly important in explaining differences in poverty in Argentina.
1.7   Since the household head is responsible for about two-thirds of family income in the
Metropolitan Buenos Aires area, the educational achievement of the household head largely
determines the income generating capacity of the family and thus the incidence of poverty.
The poverty rate is progressively reduced as the education of the household head increases.
The incidence of poverty among the illiterate household heads is more than double that of
those who are not illiterate. The reduction in poverty rates is most pronounced for secondary
school graduates, as the poverty rates drops by more than 60% compared to primary school
graduates. Furthermore, the incidence of poverty among the employed varies inversely with
the level of skills, size of the firm, informality of the sector, and economic sector--i.e.,
highest among unskilled workers, in firms that employ less than six workers, in the informal
sector, and among agricultural and construction workers. These findings provide strong
justification for investments to improve coverage and quality of secondary education.



4-
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. The Education Sector
Overview
2.1   Until the mid-1970s, Argentina had one of Latin America's most developed
educational systems in terms of enrollment rates for primary and secondary education (Annex
A). Following concerns that the system's quality and efficiency were deteriorating the
government decentralized primary education in 1978 as a means of fostering provincial
responses to local problems. Secondary education remained under National control (although
provinces developed parallel systems) until 1992 when, as part of a wide ranging reform of
the social sectors, the current government transferred all national secondary schools to the
prwvinces.
2.2   The principal thrust behind these administrative reforms, which have formed part of
larger reform efforts in the social sectors, has been the desire to improve the quality and
efficiency of Argentina's deteriorating system of human resources development. Argentina's
population is highly schooled relative to that of other countries in the region, nevertheless, it
is exceedingly ill prepared in comparison to countries with a similar income level with which
it competes in mrld markets. In 1985, for example, the average years of schooling in
Argentina (among the population aged 25 years and older) was 6.6 years, the highest in Latin
America. Nevertheless, when distribution of educational services --which are concentrated in
Buenos Aires- are taken into account, years of schooling varies significantly, especially
among some provinces. Average schooling in the City of Buenos Aires is above 8.0 years,
while among the poorest provinces it resembles the LAC average of 4.4. Korea and Taiwan,
for comparison, averaged 7.9 and 7.0 years, respectively, more than Argentina and far above
the LAC average.' Coverage is an area that needs improvement in Argentina, especially at
the secondary level --coverage at the primary level averages 90% while in secondary it
reaches approximately 56%. Nevertheless the country's overriding educational problem is not
coverage, rather it is low quality or student's lack of learning. Problems at the secondary
level, often the last stage before students enter the labor market, are especially acute: high
drop-out and repetition rates (approximately 50% and 10% respectively) plague the system
along with low completion. Available student achievement data further indicates that
secondary students are ill prepared: for example, a 1992 survey of 1,000 students in Buenos
Aires shows that on a scale of 0 to 6, 82% of students scored under 3 and 22% scored 0 in
math. In Spanish those proportions were 49% and 15% respectively. Low internal efficiency
is exacerbated by low productivity of human resources expressed by low student-teacher
afios which are as low as 6 to I in Santa Fe, and 8 to 1 in La Pampa.
1.  R. Barro d J. Leo. Intrnational Comparisons of Educational Attainment,- The Wbrld Bank,
Wahington, 1993.



-5-
2.3   To address problems in the education sector, the current Government has formulated
and begun to implement a strategy whose principles are embodied in the new Federal
Education Law (FEL) of 1993. The FEL contains a framework for reorganizing educational
administration (including support for decentralization) and the internal structure of the
educational system. The immediate Government aim is to improve the quality and efficiency
of the educational system, an effort illustrated in the FEL and the Government's declaration
of 1994 as the "Year of Education,, Science and Technology". Furthermore, the decision to
carry out a nation-wide inventory of education sector personnel manifests the Government's
will to improve sector productivity. Administratively, the FEL has redefined the roles of the
central and provincial governments: provinces have the responsibility of financing and
administering all public pre-university education while the central government provides
policy guidance, establishes minimum curricular contents, monitors student achievement and
provides technical assistance. Meanwhile, long-term goals outlined by the FEL consist of: (i)
raising compulsory education from 7 to 10 years, including one year of pre-school and 9
years of general basic education; (ii) reducing the secondary school cycle from 5 or 6 years
to 3 and reorienting it to a polimodal structure2; and (iii) upgrading the curriculum of each
cycle.
Structure and Management of the Sector
2.4   The structure and management of Argentina's education system is at a crucial point as
a result of the Government's reform efforts. Formal education begins at the age three at the
pre-school level. As a result of the FEL, compulsory education was extended. Compulsory
education begins at the age of five in the last year of pre-school and extends through basic
education (nine years). In summary, compulsory education includes a period of ten years
from the age of 5 to 14. The FEL also redefined the last year of secondary education
creating a polimodal system of three years duration. The system also contemplates technical
and vocational education.
2.5   Non-university educational services are provided by provinces and municipal
governments, as well as the private sector. The municipal governments play a very limited
role, controlling only a small percentage of primary schools. The quality of schooling varies
considerably by province yet generally, no significant differences exist between types of
provider. According to evaluation tests, there is no evidence of significant difference between
public and private schools. However, a much higher proportion of graduates from non-
subsidized secondary private schools enter higher education.
2.6   Secondary education comprises 2,160,410 students, of which 72% are enrolled in the
public provincial schools and 28% in private schools (1991 data). Enrollments are also
divided between curricular tracks as follows: 76% attend the baccalaureate and commercial
academic track and 24% the technical-vocational (technical and agricultural) track. The
2.  Polimoda, meaning various modities cf learning wil emphase integrtd knowledge of ifur cluste
areas -humanistic, social, scientific and technical.



-6-
transfer of secondary education services from the national to provincial governments affected
approximately 1,100,000 students or 50% of total secondary students. These students
belonged to public schools (54%) and private schools (46%). The seven project provinces
contain 270,326 transferred students (roughly 20% of the total transferred students). When
transferred students are combined with pre-existing provincial students, the seven project
provinces contain a total of 523,699 students -approximately 34% of all secondary students.
Annex C provides more detailed data on Argentina's secondary education enrollment and
efficiency, and specifically, for the seven project provinces.
2.7   Since the transfer of secondary education in 1992 and implementation of the FEL
(1993) the Argentinean education sector has been highly decentralized with a new
arrangement of functions and responsibilities between the NMCE and the PMEs. The NMCE
assumed the role of supervising, monitoring, and providing technical and financial assistance
to ensure quality and equity throughout the country. In special cases, the National
Government can finance, through earmarked grants, special activities: these include the
provision of educational materials or educational infrastructure to compensate for inequities
and deficiencies among the provinces. In addition to these functions, the NMCE now serves
three fundamental functions: development of basic curricular content for each cycle;
assessment of student achievement and monitoring of progress to meet nationally established
goals; and development of a national information network with educational data that will
permit the organization of appropriate activities and programs.
2.8   The PMEs on the other hand assumed all day-to-day financial and administrative
responsibilities for public preschool, primary, and secondary education including: financing
current and investment expenditures required for delivery of schooling; program supervision;
planning and budgeting; school maintenance and construction; provision of educational
materials; hiring and dismissal of teachers; and teacher training. PMEs vary widely with
Tespect to their experience and capacity. Furthermore, they vary with regard to internal
provincial organizational structures, given that some provinces have an internal network of
subprovincial administrative units, such as regional offices, or conversely may be more
centralized.
2.9   The PMEs and the NMCE, besides formulating and implementing their own policies
to fulfill new functions, will adhere to nationally established and coordinated policies as
defined by the Federal Council of Culture and Education (CFCE). The CFCE is presided
over by the National Minister of Education with the participation of all 24 provincial
Ministers of Education. Its principal functions are to: plan and coordinate national policies
aimed at, for example, developing education quality nationwide; provide advice about
national education priorities; propose amendments to existing national education legislature as
required; establish basic requirements for each educational cycle; and approve teacher
training programs.
2.10 The organization and structure chart of NMCE and PMEs appear in Annex B. Chart
R 1 is the organizational chart of NMCE and PMEs. For a description of financial,



-7-
technical, and administrative responsibilities of the national and provincial governments prior
to and after the FEL see Annex B, Table 2.
Education of Women
2.11 Argentina's record concerning the education of girls is very good yet leaves much to
be desired regarding labor market outcomes. Presently, no gender bias exists in school
enrollment nor in the area of achievement. Household data covering Gran Buenos Aires
shows that the average number of years of schooling for females has increased from 7.8 in
1980 to 9.8 in 1990 compared to 8.1 and 8.7, respectively, among males. Although
educational characteristics between males and females are very similar, there are some
differences in labor market outcomes: females tend to work fewer hours than males; on
average, there are twice as many part-time female workers than males; and females earn
approximately 64.5 % that of males. Females whose last educational level was secondary, and
were self-employed, earned 50.4% that of males, while among employees females averaged
72.0% as much as males. These earnings differentials seem to be less a result of "skills"
(attributes) than "treatment' (wage structure).3
Private Sub-System
2.12 Private enrollments reach 22% of total enrollments in all educational levels. The
participation of the private sector in providing education services is higher in pre-school
(31% of enrollments) and higher non-university level (29% of total enrollments) but is also
important in primary and secondary education in which 18% and 28% of students are in
privates schools (see Annex C Table C.3). These figures vary significantly among provinces.
The private sector is smaller in the poorer provinces (e.g. 5.6% in Formosa and 5.8% in La
Rioja) and larger in the more densly populated and higher-income provinces, such as
Cordoba (23%), Santa Fe (24 %), and the Federal Capital (41.3%). On average the private
sector provides better quality education services than the public sector, as recently shown by
the data from the first national student assessment test in Language and Math carried out in
1993.
2.13  As mentioned below (para. 2.17) Argentina's educational system has a strong tradition
of subsidizing the private sector. More than 75% of private sector institutions receive
financial support from the government to pay teachers salaries. This tradition was confirmed
by the new Federal Education Law that also established criteria for selecting schools to be
subsidized, including teachers' salaries.
3.  G. Psacha'opoulos und Z.. Tannatos. Women's Emplovment and Pav in Latin Amerca, Latin America
and the Caribbean Technical Department, The World Bank, 1991.



Education Fmancing and Expenditures
2.14  Structure and Trends Over two thirds of total public expenditures in education were
carried out by provincial governments in 1991, prior to the transfer of secondary schools,
and this share has increased to over three quarters in 1993 and 1994. Municipal spending on
education represented around three percent of the total in 1993.4 Total public spending on
education has increased from 3.14% of GDP in 1991 to 3.22% in 1993, and 1994 budget
figures call for spending an estimated 3.5% of GDP in 1994 (Annex D. Table 1). This
represents an important change from the situation during the chaotic 1980s, when total public
spending on education fell to 2.2% of GDP in 1982 and was subject to severe fluctuations.
2.15 The most salient change in the pattern of public educational spending is the drop in
federal spending from 0.96% of GDP in 1991 to 0.65% in 1993 as a result of the transfer of
secondary schools to the provinces. The provinces share rose from 2.10 to 2.74% of GDP
during the same period (Table D. 1). Looking at total public spending on education by all
three governmental levels in 1993, approximately 55% is devoted to primary education, 25%
to secondary education and 20% to the post-secondary level, including universities, teacher
training and non-university institutions (Thble D.3). In terms of total public expenditure at
the national level, education and culture accounted for 2.44 billion pesos or 9.5 % of the total
social federal budget for 1994 and of this total, the federal Ministry of Culture and Education
budget is 2.05 billion pesos (Charts D. 1, footnote 1). The seven project provinces devoted
between 19 and 31 % of their total public spending to education in 1992, with all but one
province allocating 22% or more to the sector (Thble D.4). The seven provinces spent 2.3
billion pesos on education in 1993, or approximately 27.4% of total public spending on
education and 35.7% of provincial education budgets.
2.16 Viewed in terms of the combined allocation of resources between levels of education,
primary and secondary education have experienced slight declines in the period since 1991,
while post-secondary education share has increased from 16.4 to 20.2% (Thble D.3). The
provinces devote approximately two thirds of their education spending to the primary level
and most of the rest to secondary and technical education, while most federal government
spending now goes to the university level in the aftermath of the transfer of the former
national secondary schools (Thble D.2).
2.17  Public Subsidies and Private Education Spending. Public educational spending in
Argentina includes subsidies to private schools, mainly at the secondary level. Subsidies are
for partial or total payment of teacher's salaries in private schools. A 1985 study indicates
that 76% of all private secondary institutions received subsidies.' Table D.5 shows total
subsidies to the private sector in 1991, prior to the trnsfer. The subsidies totalled 532
4.    The Municipality of Buenos Aires is included with the provinces in this analysis and is not included as
part of municipal spending.
S.  Beccaria, Luis A. and Riquelme, 0. 'El Gasto Social en Educacion y la Distribucion del Ingreso,
Facultad Latinoamericano de Ciencias Sociales, 1985, in Analisis del Casto Publico de Educacion, Ministerio de
Educacion y Justicia, 1990.



-9-
million pesos, equivalent to 0.29% of GDP, with over half coming from the provincial
govemments even before the transfer (Table D.7). The subsidies were the source of
approximately one third of total private sector education spending of US$1.7 billion in 1991.
Nearly half the subsidies (47.6%) were paid to schools in the Federal Capital of Buenos
Aires and the Province of Buenos Aires, with Santa Fe and Cordoba receiving between 14
and 15% each, thus 65 % of subsidies to private schools go to four jurisdictions (Table D.5).
2.18 Families contribute approximately 19% of total educational spending, or 0.73% of
GDP (Table D.7) in 1991. Most private spending is for school fees but a portion is paid to
school 'cooperadoras" that in turn pay minor expenses of the school, such as maintenance
and materials costs not otherwise provided.
2.19 Shares of Public Spending Personnel expenditures, mainly teachers' salaries,
represent the largest share of educational spending. In the seven provinces included in the
project, teachers' salaries account for between 71% (Cordoba) and 85 % (Neuquen) of total
sector spending in 1993, with most provinces over 80% (Tible D.8). High spending on
salaries means that few resources are available for teaching materials, building maintenance
and other important inputs. Capital spending has declined in real terms in recent years.
Although the provinces have tried, they have been unable to compensate for underinvestment
in infrastructure during the economic crisis. Existing schools have operated on multiple
shifts and demand for new school places has often been met by renting space in theatres,
stores and other spaces not designed for use as schools.
2.20 Teachers' salaries have tended to decline in real terms over the past decade and to
fluctuate widely, as noted in the Sector Study Argentina: Reallocating Resources for the
Impront of Education'. Both the downward trend and the fluctuations tended to
demoralize the teaching force for many years and to contribute to labor unrest, high
absenteeism and working two or more jobs. Salaries have improved in more recent years.
With the transfer, a number of provinces have had to raise the salaries of teachers in former
national secondary schools to make them equal to provincial pay levels. This in turn has
made the financial impact of the transfer even more severe and has created conditions in
which payments from the national govemrnent do not compensate for the increased
expenditure the provinces must make. The issue of teachers' salaries continues to be a
source of tension, although there have been improvements. Some of the seven provinces in
the proposed project have begun the process of modifying laws and regulations governing
teachers' pay and working conditions, including Cordoba, La Pampa, Neuquen and Rio
Negro.
2.21  Unit Cpst. Per student expenditures in the public sector in 1991 were estimated to
be about US$550 a year for primary education, US$880 a year for secondary and technical
education, and US$1,035 a year for tertiary education. Per student public expenditure in
6. Washington, D. C World Banlk, 1991. See p. 21 and Annexes 17 a and b, pp. 71-76.



-10-
secondary education varies largely among project provinces, ranging from about US$616 in
Mendoza to about US$1,452 in Neuquen in 1992. While not strictly comparable, the per
student expenditures in the private sector in 1991 were approximately US$800 a year for
preprimary, primary, and secondary and technical education; US$560 a year for post-
secondary and teacher training ("educacion superior"); and US$1,680 a year for university
education7. These show higher average spending per student, for private education, which
may reflect higher quality of private education. However, more studies are required to
pinpoint precise reasons for these differences in per student expenditures, including efficiency
considerations.
2.22 Financial Impact of Decentralization of Secondary Education. The financial impact of
the decentralization of secondary education to the provinces in 1992 has not been uniform.
The provincial public cost of the transfer of decentralized services varied according to the
size of enrollment, teacher and personnel costs, and the number and physical conditions of
the infrastructure of the schools transferred, Annex C, Table 4). Cordoba and Santa Fe had
the highest cost among the provinces involved in the project (Table D.9).
2.23 The capacity to meet these transfer costs of secondary education, which svas partially
offset by the increase in revenue-sharing resources (para. 1.2), varied among the provinces
depending on the status of provincial finances before the transfer. Intense negotiations to
determine the exact amount to pay for the cost of transferred schools and the respective
responsibilities of the federal and provincial governments took place when the formal transfer
occurred by signing an agreement between each provincial government and the federal
government.
2.24 However, the negotiated agreements for the transfer of the secondary schools (in 1992
about US$205 million in the seven project provinces) only considered the cost of federal
government spending for services prior to the transfer--the size of which varied according to
the number and type of federal schools. The agreements between the provinces and federal
government did not include provisions to level the pay or compensate for quality differentials
between the provincial and federally transferred teachers, improve school buildings, or
provide other essential inputs. These additional financial and administrative requirements,
together with the task of managing an additional 889 schools, 21,637 teachers, and 270,326
students in the proposed seven project provinces (1991 data) have placed a large burden on
provincial resources and administrative capacity and created serious management and
financial issues. Under these circumstances, the need to look for alternative modes of
administrative and financial management poses a substantial challenge for provincial
educational entities.
7. 'Gasto Publico Social', Draft, Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services, December 1993.



-11-
B. Main Issues in Secondary Education
2.25 The main issues in secondary education include: (a) low internal efficiency; (b)
unsatisfactory educational quality and inadequate school infrastructure; and (c) weak
administrative, managerial, planning and financial capacity.
Low Internal Efficiency
2.26 With a 56% net enrollment rate among the 13 to 18-year old population during 1991,
Argentina has one of the highest coverage indicators of secondary education in Latin
America. Furthermore, coverage has expanded almost 50% since 1980. Nevertheless the
internal efficiency of secondary school system is low due mainly to: (a) high dropout rates;
(b) repetition; and (c) low average student-teacher ratios. These inefficiencies affect the
quality of secondary education and result in waste of human and financial resources.
2.27 High dropout rates. The high dropout rate is the main efficiency issue in Argentine
secondary education. Although a national average rate is not available, six of the seven
provinces in the project have statistics that indicate there is a serious problem. Although the
cohorts are not the same from province to province (given varying time measurements
between the late 1980s to early 1990s) the incidence of dropout rates ranges from 65% in
Rio Negro to 419% in La Pampa (see Annex C, Table 6). These rates are averages of all
secondary education tracks. Nevertheless, dropouts rates are much higher within the technical
tracks. For example, data available in three provinces show that for the 1987/1992 cohort,
around 82% of the students in Rio Negro, 68% in La Pampa, and 71 % in Santa Fe left
secondary technical schools before completing the cycle. These figures indicate that
curriculum plans and classroom teaching need to be revised to better meet the needs of
students in technical tracks. Among the factors that affect the dropout rate is late secondary
school entrance due to late completion of primary school. According to estimates by United
Nations, Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization/Oficina Regional de Educaci6n
para America Latina y el Caribe (UNESCO/OREALC), the average number of student-years
required to complete the 7-year primary school cycle is 9.6 years, thus leading to a
significant number of students reaching secondary school being older than 13, the age
expected if there were no delays. These students actually enroll in the secondary schools as
shown by the fairly high transition rates from primary to secondary school that range from
90% in Misiones to 70% in Mendonza (see Annex C Table 7). Although students are more
likely to become dropouts before completing secondary education and need special attention
in relation to curriculum content and classroom teaching. The project would address this
issue with activities described in paras. 3.3 to 3.8.
2.28 Reetition. TJpdated infobmatioii on repetition rates is available in five project
provinces, yet it is not divided by grades and/or by tracks. The highest average repetition
rate conies from Rio Negro (17%) and the lowest (12%) from Misiones (see Annex C Table
8). Compared with the number of dropouts, repetition rates are low. Nevertheless, it is



-12-
possible that many students counted as drop-outs are actually repeaters that leave school
before final examinations, come back the next year and are enrolled as "new' students in the
same grade from which they had dropped out the year before. Although it is not possible to
satisfactorily quantify the repetition rate its cumulative effect with dropouts results in a high
number of students that are lost or delayed within the secondary school system. This can be
seen by the low participation of secondary school enrollments in total enrollments in all
levels of the educational system: despite the high coverage of secondary education (56% net
enrollment) and the fairly satisfactory transition rates from primary to secondary school, in
the seven project provinces the participation of secondary education is up to 26% of the total
enrollments (see Table C. 10). The scarcity and unreliability of information about repetition
and dropouts points to the urgent need to rebuild the management information system. To
correct this problem the project would support the development of National and Provincial
Management Information Systems that provide more reliable statistics on efficiency indicators
(paras. 3.10 and 3.12). Furthermore, as far as repetition is due to inadequate student
evaluation, poor curriculum planning and classroom practices, the project would support
activities that aim to improve the quality of the learning environment and curriculum,
evaluation and teaching practices (paras. 3.3 and 3.8).
2.29 Low student teacher ratios. In all project provinces except Mendoza these ratios are
lower than 12 to 1 (Annex C, Thble 5). This has an impact on costs per student, which are
very high, and on the payroll expenditures, which account for approximately 90% of all
education sector recurrent costs. These low student-teacher ratios, nevertheless, often do not
reflect what is presented in the classroom considering that the average number of students
per classroom averages between 24 and 35. This indicates that the low student-teacher ratio
is a problem related to overstaffing, absenteeism, temporary leave, and short-term
assignments by substitute teachers, which results in each post being occupied by two or more
teachers. Given the weakness in managerial capacity, the result is lack of guidelines or
priorities to define appropriate human resource policies. lb address this issue, the project
would finance a sector management productivity study (described in para. 3.23) to provide
reliable data on which to formulate adequate human resource policies.
Unsatisfactory Educational Quality and Inadequate Infrastructure
2.30 Secondary education in Argentina expanded without complementary improvements in
management capacity, internal efficiency, school management, and infrastructure. All these
factors are critical in determining educational quality manifested in uniform academic
achievement and adequate learning environments for students. The first national assessment
of student learning was carried out in late 1993, and the preliminary results show low
performance in some basic skills in spanish and mathematics. These results also showed
that students from the baccalaureate track fared better in language that students from the
technical track, while in mathematics the inverse occurred. Also, other studies have shown
similar evidence of very low attainment in basic skill areas. The level is poorest in
mathematics and spanish, with large variations between schools. For instance, a 1992 survey
of 3,000 students in 11 provinces shows that on a scale of 0 to 6, 82% of students scored



-13-
under 3 and 22% scored 0 in math. In Spanish those proportions were 49% and 15%,
respectively. Lack of educational inputs, such as didactic materials and other pedagogical
resources, inadequate teacher training and supervision, poor curricular content and deficient
school infrastructure have partially contributed to this low educational achievement. Issues
related to unsatisfactory educational quality would be addressed by the project through the
activities described in Chapter III under Educational Quality Improvement project
component.
2.31 Limited Access to Didactic Materials and Other Pedagogical Resources. Many of
Argentina's public secondary school students and teachers have limited access to libraries,
laboratories, and other essential educational equipment. In-class libraries such as reading
corners are virtually nonexistent while school libraries, when available, are outdated and
limited in their selection. Access to supplementary didactic materials such as maps, globes,
charts, and dictionaries is also limited. Likewise, laboratories used for teaching basic science
courses like biology are poorly equipped and lack essential supplies for their use. Other
educational equipment, such as information laboratories are often concentrated in schools
attracting students from higher income groups. Most of the available learning materials are
donated by parents or parents' associations. In the past, most provinces did not finance this
type of matexial given limited budgets and high costs, especially for salaries. Students have
thus been largely dependent on the use of photocopies, lessons copied from the blackboard,
and computers donated by the community. In some cases, learning materials have been
provided on a selective basis (such as science modules and laboratories purchased from
Spain) and their use needs to be expanded. Unfortunately, these science-based interventions
have not been accompanied by an adequate introduction or training for the teachers who will
use them. Provision of educational textbooks (para 3.5), didactic materials (para. 3.6) and
teacher training (para. 3.7) would be main activities under the project to overcome this issue.
2.32 Inadequate Teacher Training. Secondary teachers receive pre-service training in
national and provincial colleges and universities. The lack of national norms and evaluations
of teacher training institutions accounts for great heterogeneity in the quality of pre-service
preparation of teachers. Low investments in the education sector and large budget allocation
for salaries, have led to scarcity of resources for investments aimed at improving quality,
including in-service teacher training. Because teacher in-service programs are comparatively
expensive, the opportunity to take refresher courses in subject fields and in classroom
management techniques have been nearly absent during the last decade. In recent years some
provinces have made significant efforts to provide in-service training for secondary teachers
related to on-going curriculum reforms. These reforms have generally been designed to
reinforce basic subjects to overcome the fragmented nonexistent curricula and to improve
content relevance of subjects disciplines. However, these efforts are still insufficient to meet
the challenges that secondary education faces in the context of rapid economic and
technological change. Moreover, teachers' in-service training programs are poorly designed
and the use of new technologies and more creative models are very limited. This situation is
exacerbated by desincentives in teacher career paths, where credentials and time on the job
are the main criteria for promotion. Because of this, there are no incentives for teachers to



-14-
update their knowledge of content and teaching skills. Presently the NMCE is elaborating
the contents of a program to update gradually the skills of all teachers. The project would
support this activity strengthening the provision of a variety of training programs aimed at
teachers, school directors, and supervisors. These range from refresher courses on basic
subjects to curriculum planning and classroom management, (described in paras. 3.7 and 3.8)
2.33 Lack of Relevance and Integration in Curricular Contents. As previously described
(para. 2.4), the curriculum is divided into two major modes of study (academic and
technical-vocational), which includes nearly 150 different programs. The evolution of the
curriculum has been complicated by an ad-hoc system that adds new programs rather than
renews the content of existing programs. As a result, a majority of current programs are
obsolete and do not reflect evolution in knowledge or changes in labor market demand. The
program's contents consist of too many disciplines thus allowing a fragmented presentation of
knowledge and limiting time teaching basic disciplines thus providing insufficient time for
students to assimilate new knowledge. It is estimated that approximately 20 standard
programs are taught in nearly 70% of the secondary schools while around 130 different
programs are dispersed in the remaining 30%. The widest dispersion is observed in technical
schools. Some programs are available in only one school. The accumulation of programs and
disciplines contribute to a higher unit cost of secondary education with no demonstrated
positive effect on quality. The curricular policy espoused in the FEL requires a long-term
strategy to define its implementation. First, the project would support studies to survey the
present curricular situation in each project province. Second, technical assistance would be
given for curriculum design and its development in the context of the federal agreements.
Lastly, production of new curriculum contents would be supported (see para. 3.8).
2.34 Poor School Management of Pedagogical Activities and Lack of School-Based
Initiatives. Schools have essentially no control over any resources nor any means or
incentives to improve quality. Innovation and management to improve pedagogy is virtually
nonexistent, because of the lack of teacher preparation and incentives. School directors
devote most of their time to meeting bureaucratic requirements which could be significantly
reduced by modernization and decentralization of management decisions. Some initiatives to
empower the schools and training the school staff to define the schools institutional
development plans began to be undertaken in some provinces, namely Cordoba and
Mendoza. These initiatives should be evaluated, supported, and improved. Training of school
directors and regional management staff (described in para 3.7) should be the activities
supported by the project to address this issue. Furthermore, provincial educational systems
have been designed in a predominantly centralized, top-down hierarchy which rests decision
making from schools. The system is not currently structured to encourage on-site teacher
participation to detect school-relevant problems thus thwarting the enhancement of
educational quality and designing and implementing solutions. The project would address this
issue by financing school-based grants as a mechanism for encouraging school-based
initiatives (described in para. 3.8).



-15-
2.35 Inadequate School Facilities. The quantitative expansion in secondary education
provision was not supported by complementary investments in improving school
infrastructure or in development of procedures to manage systematically existing available
space. This was especially true in rural and marginal urban areas around large cities where
expansion of enrollments was largest due to population growth and migration. The weak
capacity for planning and budgeting to allow for the increase in demand led to the
paradoxical situation of overcrowded schools in poor areas and at the same time underutilized
classrooms using less than 50% of its capacity in many of these poor areas (designed for
35-50 students but used for 20-25 students). In all project provinces there are secondary
schools using shared buildings with primary schools or using rented and inadequate space in
rural or the most deprived urban areas. Furthermore, a lack of maintenance has caused high
deterioration of both ex-national and provincial school buildings. School rehabilitation and
school construction (described in para. 3.15) would be supported by the project to address
this issue, as well as training for school directors and supervisors (described in paras 3.7).
Weak Administrative, Managerial, and Planning Capacity
2.36 Education sector management is weak at both the national and provincial levels. This
poses a challenge to NMCE and PMEs and impedes their efforts to assume the new
responsibilities envisaged in the new Federal Law (see para. 2.3 and 2.47). To meet these
requirements, such as NMCE responsibility of providing policy guidance and supervision and
PMEs responsibility of administering public secondary education, modem administrative
organizations with more efficient norms and procedures will have to be designed and
implemented. At both levels there is insufficient institutional capability to ensure educational
efficiency, quality and equity improvements. lb overcome this situation and generate
institutional capacity to assure efficiency, improved quality and equity, the NMCE has
initiated a deep reorganization and restructuring of its functions. Specifically, the project
will address the following issues: (a) inadequate and overcentralized administration of PMEs;
(b) limited ability of the PMEs to plan and manage activities needed to provide efficient and
effective secondary education; (c) limited ability of the NMEC to translate its new legal
functions into effective actions of national coordination, monitoring evaluation and provision
of technical support to the provincial administrations; (d) inadequate or lack of timely and
reliable management information systems and students assessment systems both at national
and provincial levels; (e) low sector productivity manifested by inefficient use of physical
and human resources; and (f) inadequate administrative physical facilities. Issues related to
weak administrative, managerial, planning and financing capacity are addressed by the
proposed project through a variety of activities described in Chapter III under the
Institutional Strengthening project component.
2.37 Inadequate and Overcentralized Administrative Organization at the PMEs. The
decentralization of secondary schools marked the transfer of all pre-university education to
the provinces (see para 2.1). In the seven provinces under the project the transfer of national
secondary schools highlighted the weakness within their organizational structures.
Overstaffing of central administrative units, duplication of responsibilities, and a lack of clear



-16-
distribution of functions lengthen and obstruct PMEs decision-making processes and their
ability to deliver efficiently services for which they are responsible. These include school
construction and maintenance, teacher training, curriculum planning, and provision of
educational materials. There is a risk that decentralization may lead to recentralization at the
provincial level if the PMEs do not restructure their own organizations through shift of
responsibility within the provinces toward the local and school levels. This would initially
require the establishment of regional offices. It would also require strengthening the role of
school principals and school boards and the redefinition of the normative, regulatory, and
operational functions at each level of the management hierarchy. The project would address
these issues through technical assistance, administrative and school directors in-service
training, training materials, and provision of hardware and software (described in para 3.10.)
2.38 Limited Ability of PMEs to Plan and Manage Secondary Education . Current
weaknesses in planning capacity do not allow PMEs to anticipate changing demands within
their systems, nor design appropriate strategies to meet challenges, such as, enrollment
growth, change in demand for teachers or subject specialties, or the need to alter resource
allocation to balance social and educational disparities. The lack of hardware, software, and
technical resources need to be overcome to be able to address educational requirements
efficiently and cost-effectively, especially since the transfer of secondary education has
further complicated sector financing and stretched the limited financial management capacity
of the PMEs (paras. 2.22-2.24). Additionally, PMEs record keeping systems of technical
and administrative units arc outdated and unreliable. Moreover, the unreliability of data about
schools, staff (number of teachers and other teaching professionals, number of hours that
teachers work each week, leaves, absenteeism, short-term reassignment and other conditions
of service) constitutes a serious burden for school management when trying to match
available human resources with physical infrastructure. Low student-teacher ratios serve as
proxies for poor human resource management at both the central and school levels (Annex C,
Table 5). These issues should be addressed by the project through technical assistance and
through training of both educational planners and financial/budget specialists. Furthermore,
studies for a complete review of existing personnel data bases would be financed by the
project along with local and foreign technical assistance and training for over 500 senior
staff, school directors and pedagogical supervisors (described in para. 3. 11) .
2.39 Limited Ability of NMCE to Translate New Functions into Effective Programs.
Although the organizational structure of the NMCE has radically changed, this change and
the implementation of efficient procedures have not yet been consolidated. The lack of
control and evaluation, and the duplication of supervisory functions leads to managerial
weakness and protracted planning and decision-making at the national level. The lack of
hardware, software, and high-level professionals in administrative, financial, and normative
management areas do not allow NMCE to fulfill its strategic planning functions. The
proposed project would address these issues by: providing technical assistance and hardware
and software to modernize and rationalize the organizational structure, norms, and
procedures of NMCE (described in para. 3.10); and support the training of technical and



-17-
administrative professionals both locally and abroad to benefit NMCE and PMEs
administrative staff (describe in para. 3.21).
2.40 Lack of National and Provincial Management Information Systems and Student
Assessment Systems. There is a pervasive lack of essential information needed for
educational decision-making. At the national level, the basic educational statistics system has
collapsed; no national statistics have been maintained since the beginning of Argentina's
economic crisis (roughly 1988), complicating comparisons between regions. An information
system is crucial to collect basic data from the local, provincial and national level. Without
an information system neither NMCE nor PMEs would be able to monitor the school system
performance, or target specific programs to compensate for learning inequalities between
regions. In the provinces educational statistics systems have developed without any national
coordination; hence, they do not necessarily conform to each other or to the national system,
which is currently being improved. Data on school staff, repetition, dropouts, transition
ratios from primary to secondary school, student-teacher ratios, and other management
indicators are partial and unreliable in nearly all of the seven provinces included in the
project. This is because the systems were designed without taking into account either the
potential users of the system or the use of the information produced. At each Province the
project would support the development of modem Management Information Systems (MIS)
linked to the national level, which would require local and foreign technical assistance,
training, software, and hardware (described in para. 3.11). Within NMCE, the project
would support the establishment of a National Management Information System (NMIS)
which would receive local and foreign technical assistance in the design and implementation
phases, fellowships and study tours abroad, hardware, and software (described in the para.
3.19).
2.41  One critical weakness of educational sector management in Argentina's secondary
education is the absence of information about student achievement. Only two of seven project
provinces--Mendoza and Rio Negro--have begun developing their own student assessment
systems. In Mendoza a sample of primary and secondary students were assessed and the
results are already available for schools and administrators. Rio Negro assessed only primary
students, but because of problems in the design of the system the production of information,
analysis, and dissemination of results has been delayed. Even in these cases the limited
information that is available is inappropriately analyzed or shared with key affected and
interested groups. In all seven provinces the lack of systematic information on student
achievement limits educational authorities' efforts to monitor students' progress toward
educational goals and to identify regions and/or schools that need special attention. Since
1988, NMCE has undertaken initiatives to assess secondary education students but these
experiences have been largely ineffective due to their discontinuity. This ineffectiveness is
being corrected by the NMCE in response to its legal mandate to provide technical assistance
and compensatory interventions to improve quality of secondary education and promote
equity nationwide. Specifically, the NMCE applied in primary and secondary education the
first national sample assessment in mathematics and language. In 1994 and 1995, this
measurement will be extended to all students. Furthermore, the few and generally weak



-18-
initiatives in this area were undertaken without articulation between the national and
provincial levels, thus precluding comparisons and coordination. Development of Student
Assessment Systems (SAS) will be supported by the project in each province interconnected
with a National Student Assessment System (NSAS). At both national and provincial levels
the project would provide resources for local and foreign technical assistance to assist in the
design and implementation of the systems, training, and hardware and software (described in
paras. 3.11 and 3.18).
2.42 Low Sector Productivity. There is a lack of precise information on the efficiency of
the educational system at the national and provincial levels; nevertheless, rough estimates
indicate there are current inadequacies in the use of physical and human resources as
manifested by low student/teacher ratios for a majority of the provinces. There also seems to
be an uneven distribution of pedagogical supervisors, directors, and other non-teaching staff
in the provincial public school systems, reflecting a lack of strategies for reallocation of
personnel. In Misiones and Neuquen, for example, there is an average of six teachers for
every non-teaching staff. Similarly, estimates show provinces spend on average less than 7%
of their educational budgets on inputs like educational materials and teacher training, which
are a key to improved educational quality. Despite these estimates, more reliable and
desegregated data by subprovincial level or personnel category is needed before formulating a
specific plan to correct the inefficiencies. This plan would be based on the information
gathered through a sector management productivity study (described in paras. 3.12 and
3.22).
2.43 Lack of or InapproRriate Physical Facilities. Educational management has been
hindered by the irrational use and distribution of physical facilities, hampering coordination
and distribution of functions. This is an issue at NMCE, where infrastructure has deteriorated
and is inadequate for accommodating new functions defined by the FEL. In at least three
PMEs (Rio Negro, Neuquen and Cordoba) central administrative functions are dispersed in
different locations making integration and communication difficult. In every province there is
a lack of regional or local facilities to support the decentralization of administrative or
technical tasks. Construction of central, regional/local offices, as well as rehabilitation of
infrastructure would be supported by the project to address these issues, (described in paras.
3.14, 3.15 and 3.23).
C Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy
2.44 The Argentine Government has assigned high priority to education within an overall
strategy of reform of the state to increase the competitiveness of the Argentine economy in
the worldwide markets. Improving the coverage, quality, and efficiency as well as the equity
of secondary education is a crucial part of this strategy. Moreover, the transfer of
responsibility for secondary education in 1992 (Law 24.049, January 1992) to the provinces
has changed the roles of the federal and provincial govemments and has further stimulated
the initiation of educational reforms. Annex E shows the policy and strategy matrix to
overcome identified issues as well as project responses for each specific issue.



-19-
2.45 The Government has taken several important measures as part of its strategy for
reforming the educational sector. A crucial measure is the passage of the new
comprehensive Federal Education Law (Law 24.195, April 1993) that defines the objectives
for education at all levels, sets out the new structure of the education system, states the
respective roles of public and private educational authorities in the new decentralized system,
emphasizes and gives special priority to the provision of high quality education and its
measurement, establishes the financing mechanism through the budget and other means, and
indicates the direction of the transition toward a new educational system.
2.46 More specifically, the FEL: (a) guarantees the rights of the Argentines to have access
to education in all levels and delineates the obligations of federal, provincial, and community
entities for providing educational services; (b) establishes a new structure of formal and non-
formal education that extends the duration of obligatory formal education to encompass that
of basic education (up to grade 9)8; (c) defines the role of private sector and its rights and
obligations in providing educational services; (d) establishes the principle of fres basic public
education and the necessity of financing it through the federal and provincial educational
budget, while allowing universities to supplement their publicly financed budget through
other sources of income (subject of a new proposed law in the Parliament) and providing
scholarships beyond basic education for needy students based on academic achievements; and
(e) reiterates the importance of public investment in education and its financing through the
federal and provincial budgets. On the latter point, the FEL requires that the education
budgets be either doubled gradually with an annual increase of 20% starting in 1993, or be
increased by 50% as a share of GDP--that is from 4% to 6% of GDP-- whichever results in
a larger increase in the education budget.
2.47 Moreover, the FEL: (a) defines educational unit/school and its management, and the
respective rights and responsibilities of students, parents and teachers that constitute the
educational community; (b) confirms the obligation of the federal and provincial governments
in ensuring the requisite quality of education at different levels and its conformity to the
established rules --by the Federal Education Law, the National Council of Culture and
Education, the relevant education policies and the rules that serve the community needs--
through continuous evaluation of the education system.
2.48 The FEL also: (a) delineates general education policies; (b) establishes the principles
of national unity, democracy, decentralization, participation, equity, intersectoral
relationships, transformation and innovations as overriding criteria for advancing the
objectives of the law; (c) sets out the governance and administrative entities in the education
system; and (d) mentions the necessity of transitional steps to implement the changes and
obligations that are created through this law, through agreements reached by the National
Education Council, and by approval of provincial legislatures, especially in relation to
financing education (Article 62).
8. Annex B has detailes of the pre-FEL and post-FEL distribution of financial and provision responsibilities
between the NMCE and PMEs.



-20-
2.49 The Government is also taking measures to consolidate the process of decentralization
both at the federal and provincial levels, that would improve the planning and financial
management capacity and administrative efficiency in the medium to long term. At the
federal level, these measures include the restructuring of the NMCE in accordance with its
new role of setting norms, monitoring and evaluating the quality of education, and
supervising and providing technical assistance to the provincial ministries of education.9
Furthermore, the Bank was informed that NMCE plans to reduce central staff by forty
percent in the next two years. At the provincial level, the process of regional
decentralization has already begun in some provinces, such as Cordoba, and needs to be
improved and consolidated. The provincial government strategy in this case is to improve
the management capacity of the top executives at the central ministries, as well as that of
middle management, supervisors, coordinators, and directors of the schools through extensive
training, as well as improvement and construction of administrative buildings and the
provision of modern equipment.
2.50        Both federl and provincial governments regard the production of systematic
and timely information to facilitate educational decision-making, as the cornerstone to the
process of the educational change and reform. In this context, federal and provincial
authorities have begun to design and implement information systems to evaluate the quality of
education at national and subnational levels. The process of discussions, elaboration of
indicators, and training in the use of systems would enhance the possibility of collecting data
systematically as well as implementing change once the systems are installed.
2.51        Other measures in the context of the reform of the educational system involve
a series of agreements reached between the federal and provincial govemments, within the
sphere of Federal Council of Education, to improve the quality of education. These
agreements would allow, in the medium term, to elaborate the minimum content of the
curriculum for all provinces. In the short run, self-contained updated blocks of the
curriculum would be prepared that would replace the existing blocks. These agreements
would also allow for teacher upgrading and training, provision of educational materials and
technology, and pedagogical innovations.
2.52 Finally, through the Education Social Plan, the federal government is undertaking
social compensation' measures that are introduced to achieve equity in access and retention
in the educational system. In secondary education, two measures are foreseen: (a) provision
of educational materials in low-income areas; and (b) aiding students with obtaining their
first employment. Furthermore, the Government plans to use the results of the National
Management Information System (NMIS), the National Student Assessment System (NSAS),
and the technical assistance financed by the project for policy decisions and establishment of
investment priorities for the sector, thus, provinces will be motivated to provide timely
information.
9. See Chapter II, The Education Sector, and Annex B, Organization and Structure of the Educational System.



-21-
2.53 While these measures taken so far are important steps in advancing educational
reform and decentralization, enormous challenges lie ahead to improve the access, quality,
efficiency and equity of secondary education. The Government has requested Bank support
in accomplishing these tasks. The Government is also seeking other sources of financing and
technical support, including the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the World
Bank for improvements in the primary and tertiary levels of education, respectively.
De Bank Role and Strategy
2.54 The Bank's assistance strategy in Argentina since 1989 has supported the
government's efforts to improve public finances, to privatize public enterprises, and to
restore Argentina's creditworthiness in the private financial markets. Bank lending thus
concentrated on a program of public sector and enterprise adjustment loans, a debt and debt
service reduction loan, supplemented by investment and technical assistance loans"0, based
on extensive economic and sector work and policy dialogue. In the post-adjustment era after
1992, the Bank strategy calls for consolidation of macroeconomic reforms and deepening
their impact, by strengthening the greatly weakened institutional and infrastructure base, both
at the federal and provincial levels and by fostering the development of the private sector.
Moreover, the increased transfer of resources and responsibilities from the federal
government to provinces during 1992 as a result of decentralization of social services has
increased the need for both more analytical work and dialogue as well as Bank support in
strengthening the institutional capacity of the provincial governments.
2.55 The social sectors are becoming a key area for the Bank's assistance since the
Government agrees that investment in human resources is crucial for the future development
of the country and poverty alleviation. In health, the Bank has already approved a loan in
support of a Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (Loan 3643-AR for US$100
million, July 1993) and has begun assisting the Government in preparation of a project to
address specific provincial health issues as well as health sector finances.
2.56 In education, the Bank's long term strategy emphasizes equitable access to primary
education of good quality; establishing and strengthening the decentralized system of
secondary education and improving its quality and efficiency as described above; and
10. These loans included Provincial Development Project (US$200 million, November 1990) Public Sector
Reform Loan (PSRL, USS325 million, July 1991), the accompanying Public Sector Reform Technical
Assistance Loan (US$23 million, May 1991), Tax Administmation Technical Assistance I (US$6 million, January
1989) and HI (US$20 million, March 1992) in support of the federaI public sector reforms; Public Enterprise
Reform Loans (PERAL I, USS300 million, February 1991, and PERAL II, US$300 million, January 1993) in
support of the privatization in telecommunications, railways, hydrocarbons, and milituy-related industries; and
Debt and Debt service Reduction Loan (DDSR, US$450 million, February 1993) and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (PSAL, US$400 million, February 1993) in support of the Government's effort to renew debt
service payments, to reduce the role of the state in the financial sector and to strengthen the banking sector and
supervisory framcwrk.



-22-
enhancing the relevance and efficiency of higher education. With some 95 % of the school
age population enrolled, Argentina does not face a large problem of lack of access to primary
education. The challenge in primary education is to improve equity and quality. The IDB is
assisting the government in this area (para. 2.60).
2.57   Sector work (Bank Country Study, Argentina: Reallocating Resources for
Improvement of Education, Washington, 1991) and the ongoing Social Sector Management
Technical Assistance Loan (SSMTAL, Loan 2984-AR for US$28 million) have laid the
groundwork for Bank interventions in the education sector. As preparatory steps for the
proposed project, the Bank, through SSMTAL, initiated the primary activities required to
strengthen selected management and institutional capacities of the Federal Ministry of Culture
and Education (NMCE) and to improve educational quality. Among the most important
products from these activities were the inventory of physical facilities, studies of educational
finance under the federal system, analyses regarding organizational restructuring of the
NMCE, and the development and pilot testing of a system for evaluating educational
achievement on the basis of standardized tests. These activities, complemented by further
support from the Provincial Development Project, and a Grant (from the Japanese PHRD
Fund), supported project preparation.
2.58  The proposed project, effectively the first in the Argentine education sector" to be
financed by the Bank, comprises an integral part of the Bank assistance strategy of
supporting the initiation ard consolidation of education reforms, promoting institutional
capacity of federal and provincial governments, and improving the coverage, quality and
efficiency of educational services at the secondary level. The project would: establish
evaluation and information systems as the basis for accountability and decision-making within
the federal education system, strengthen provincial capacities in quality- enhancing areas,
including teacher training, curriculum and educational material design and development, and
would provide technical assistance to the provinces in budgeting and educational
management. By financing the construction, maintenance, and rehabilitation of
administrative buildings and schools, the project would improve the efficiency of national,
and provincial governments, and schools. The proposed project would also alleviate poverty
in certain provinces by improving access of the poor to secondary education. At present,
seven provinces are now eligible to participate in this project. A similar project
(Decentralized Secondary Education II) currently under preparation will support the
decentralization efforts of another group of provinces.
2.59    The Bank is also supporting the Government's efforts in the area of Higher
Education. The Bank strategy in higher education would involve facilitating the
implementation of the Govemment's policy to reform and strengthen the national public
universities, especially in areas of education finance, allowing the universities to diversify
their revenues and charge tuition; introducing efficient management practices; and adopting
11. The Vocational Training and Technical Education Project (1980) was never implemented.



-23-
changes in admissions policies and the curriculum to reduce unit costs. In addition, the Bank
will support efforts to promote private sector participation in the provision of higher
education.
Role of Other Donors and Other Agencies
2.60  Other multilateral international agencies and donors are supporting or planning to
support the education sector in Argentina. The IDB is preparing a project to improve the
coverage, quality and efficiency of pre-school and primary education. This project will
support: (i) strengthening the decentralization process by enabling and empowering the school
as an educational management unit; (ii) improving the efficiency of financial allocations
mechanisms to target financial resources to the schools; (iii) strengthening teacher pre-service
training and rationalizing teacher's career normative framework; (iv) providing technical
assistance to update curriculum in order to adapt curriculum planning and implementation to
the guidelines of the new FEL; (v) rehabilitating schools and providing educational
equipment. UNESCO and the NMCE, on the other hand, have agreed to develop educational
materials in the framework of the Escuela Nueva model as well as training programs on
financial management to support the decentralization process. Meanwhile, the Organization
of American States (OAS) is providing assistance to the NMCE and provinces in the areas of
educational management, budgeting and financing, and execution of an infrastructure survey
in primary, technical and higher education. Misiones province is receiving financial support
from IDB through the Provincial Development Project, to provide training in educational
management, financial planning and budgeting. Lastly, France and Spain are supporting
Cordoba province with technical assistance in the areas of educational technology. The
planned contribution/loans from donors and bilateral agencies are summarized below.
Table 2.1: Funding Provided by Donors and Other Agencies
(In Thousands of US$)
PROGRAMS/AREAS                    IDB    UNESCO           OAS  FRANCE   SPAIN
Basic Education (pre-school and     250,000                   111.3
primary)
Technical Education                                           124.7
Higher Education                                               27.3
Tmining in Educational
Management and Financial Planning     323.4       61.0         50.0
Budgeting and Financing               323.4
Educational Technologies
Teaching Materials                                72.5                   T.A'   T.A2
1 & 2 TA: Technical Assistance only.
Lessons Learned



-24-
2.61 World Bank lending to Argentina's social sectors began with its only education
project to date, the Vocational Training and Technical Education Project (1980). This
project of US$58 million aimed at improving CONET's (Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n
Tecnica) institutional capacity and expanding the quality of Argentina's vocational training
system to support the Government's economic policies and facilitate expected growth of
production in sectors requiring technically trained workers. This project was canceled seven
years after approval, disbursing less than 2% of project funds because of complicating
factors, including changes in project administration, project complexity, deteriorating
economic conditions, and political turmoil. Also, since this was the initial project in the
sector,counterparts were not familiar with Bank procedures and misunderstandings about
procurement, in particular, greatly contributed to the failure to move the project forward.
2.62 The lessons presented below draw on this project experience as well as: the Bank's
more recent lending experiences in Argentina's social sectors, particularly through the Social
Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan -SSMTAL- (1989) and the Maternal and
Child Health and Nutrition Project (1993); the Bank's lending experience to subnational
governments in Argentina, particularly through the Provincial Development Project (1990),
the Municipal Development Project (1988); worldwide Bank lending for secondary
education; Bank studies on decentralized educational systems in Latin America"2. The
SSMTAL provided analytical ground work for decentralization of secondary education and
institutional strengthening in the area of management information systems, nevertheless, since
this project solely focused on the NMCE the provinces did not receive technical assistance.
2.63  The factors that affected these projects are:
(a)    Project design--to the extent possible, be simple and flexible despite the
inevitable complexities inherent in education sector projects. Project scope
should concentrate on a few well-defined objectives and tasks. Furthermore, it
is crucial that borrower commitment be strong to fulfil these objectives and
that it is clearly demonstrated in policy reorientation, institutional improvement
and budget allocations;
(b)   Institutional weaknesses--both at the federal and decentralized (provincial) level
expressed in the form of ill trained personnel, low salaries among civil
servants, and poor preparation in policy formulation and implementation.
(c)    Project implementation-- the location and structure of project coordination unit
must balance the advantages and disadvantages of using existing structures or
new project coordination units to manage projects. Experience indicates that, if
12. The Design and Administration of Interyovernmental Transfers, Report No. 29, Regional Studies Program,
Latin America and the Caribbean Technical Department, The World Bank, 1993, and Educational
Decentralization in Latin America: Lessons Learned. A View Frm LATHR No. 27, Human Resources
Division, Technical Department, Latin America and the Caribbean Region, The World Bank, 1993.



-25-
the legal and administrative normative framework permit sufficient
management autonomy and flexibility, strengthening existing agencies is the
preferred option.
(d)   Implementation delays--caused by unfamiliarity with Bank procedures (this is
common in the social sectors, where investment projects are relatively new)
especially in the areas of procurement and disbursements have been common.
Especially important is the need to standardized bidding documents and
establish procedures that are tailored to the needs of each project prior to
initiation to avoid implementation delays;
(e)   Interventions specific to secondary education--a number of areas have been
demonstrated to have particular impact: (i) improving general education,
especially in basic studies such as math, science, and language, given that it
increases worker flexibility; (ii) promoting better access to secondary
education especially among the poor and rural population to improve their
chances for future training and their ability to earn higher incomes;
(iii) supporting teacher training, especially in basic studies and the appropriate
use of educational materials; (iv) discouraging of financing processes aimed at
defining curriculum reform, given that they may prove to be lengthy and
directed by political rather than technical aims; (v) providing technical
assistance to help governments fine tune curriculum reform proposals and
develop institutional capacity.
(f)    Unclear definitions of functions between central and provincial levels--projects
aimed to improve quality and efficiency of education in a decentralized
framework require clear definition between central and provincial levels
specially with regard to whom is to execute and finance the different activities
of the project.
(g)   Weakening the decentralization process--in educational systems that are already
decentralized or in the process of decentralization investments should give
support to decentralized agencies to execute the project activities with
autonomy to take technical decisions and capacity for procuring and hiring
services and technical assistance. Experience show that projects managed by
the central level may weakening the decentralization process when the
executing agencies are not given enough decision capacity.
2.64 These lessons have been incorporated into the proposed project, as follows:
(a)   Project Design--the project to be implemented by each province includes three
main components and well defined subcomponents for institutional
strengthening, quality improvements and infrastructure improvements. The
national and provincial governments have been fully involved in defining the



-26-
scope and content of the project and ensuring that the objectives and the
corresponding tasks are well defined and not overly complex. Borrower
commitment to the project has evolved through preparation of detailed project
documents by project preparation units in each of the participating ministries
of education based on priorities established by national and provincial
governments. To ensure continuity, the same project preparation units will be
responsible for project coordination and implementation. A strong sense of
"ownership" among both the National and Provincial Governments has also
been manifested by policy orientation and budget allocations;
(b)   Institutional weaknesses--the project has incorporated financing of recurrent
expenditures, including salaries for PCU staff, into the project, as well as
extensive training for project and ministerial staff in management and
implementation issues;
(c)   Project implementation and the location and structure of the PCU--The
subproject PCUs will be located in the respective ministries of education while
the executing agencies (e.g. for construction) will be located or would report
to existing ministerial departments. To strengthen PCUs and ministerial
departments involved in project coordination or implementation, the project
will finance technical assistance and short-term training needed to establish
management units and a system for monitoring and supervising project
activities. Meanwhile, the PCUs will be staffed by highly qualified and
experienced personnel within each ministry to avoid delays;
(d)   Implementation delays--capacity building in Bank procedures (disbursement
and procurement) has been carried out through training of local staff an
continuous interaction both in the country and at Bank headquarters during
project preparation. Also, procurement document models for LCB, ICB and a
letter of invitation for consultants have been agreed upon with the
Government. During implementation coordination with other social sector
projects will be strengthened. Moreover, a project launching seminar will be
organized with the participation of all provinces; and
(e)   Interventions specific to secondary education--the project will stress: (i)
improvements in general education stressing mastery of basic skills which will
help increase worker flexibility; (ii) extension of secondary education
coverage, especially among the poor and rural populations; (iii) strengthening
of teacher training, especially in basic skills as well as in the appropriate use
of related educational materials; (iv) support for curriculum development, only
in cases where the tasks entail technical activities; and (v) assistance to the
national and provincial ministries of education for fine tuning their curriculum
proposals, as a means to helping them develop institutional capacity.



-27-
(f)   Distribution of financial and provision responsibilities. The project design is
based on a detailed distribution of responsibilities between the NMCE and
PMEs related to financing and provision of each input required to carry out
the project activities (see Annex B Thble B.2).
(g)   Implementation arrangements. Additional to the above mentioned distribution
of functions in the execution of project activities, each phase and task of
project implementation was agreed upon between the Bank, the NMCE and the
PMEs with the purpose of giving the provinces greater responsibility in all the
implementation activities (see Annex P, lTble P. 1).



-28-
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1    The objective of the project is to increase student learning in the seven selected
provinces' by financing improvements in the quality and efficiency of secondary education,
increase/improve physical capacity to serve better the secondary-school-aged population and
strengthen institutional capacity under a decentralized framework. The project would
strengthen the capacity of the NMCE to provide policy guidance and supervision, as defined
by the FEL. Additionally, the project would strengthen institutional capacity by: (i)
modernizing sector management; (ii) improving administrative efficiency; and (iii) improving
productivity. Several subcomponents, such as the School Innovation Programs and school
rehabilitation will be implemented with community participation.
B. Project Components2
3.2    The provincial subprojects (82%  of total project cost) and national subproject (18%  of
total project cost) will have the components shown below:
Table 3.1: Project Components
Infrastructure
Educational Quality   Institutional
Subprojects         Improvernent        Strengthening  Impwrernent  Rationalization
Provincial              x                   x               x
National                                    x                            x
1.    The seven provinces to be included in this project were selected jointly by the Bank and NMCE based
on the following criteria: (i) signed Transfer Agreement for secondary schools; (ii) sound fiscal standing of each
province, asessed according to criteria established by the Ministry of Interior; (iii) commitment of the
provinces to participate in the National Management Information System (NMIS) and National Student
Asessment System (NSAS); (iv) a utisfactory diagnosis of the provincial education sector and project proposal;
(v) willingness to carry out reforms to improve productivity and efficiency in the sector; and (vi) need to
improve coverage and quality as reflected by educational indicators. The remaining 16 provinces would be
eligible for participation in future projects, which would complement the proposed project in objectives and
design.
2.     The Argentine Government requested that the order of the components be changed so that Institutional
Strengthening precedes Educational Quality Improvement and Infrastructure. However, the Project Team
indicated that the order of presentation is not indicative of the importance of priorities allotted to each
component.



-29-
C. Project Description3
PROVINCIAL LEVEL
Educational Quality Improvement (US$ 84.1 million, including contingencies, or 31% of
total project cost).
3.3    A major objective of the project is to increase the quality of public secondary
education as reflected by student's cognitive learning and indicators such as repetition, drop-
out and completion rates. This goal would be achieved by the provision of an array of inputs
through a variety of activities. These activities can be grouped under six main
subcomponents --not all of which are included in every subproject. Despite having
subcomponents with the same name in different subprojects, these vary in design,
orientation, and contents from province to province on the basis of local conditions and
requirements. The subcomponents by province are shown in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: Educational Quality Improvement Activities by Subproject
Provision of Didactic Matcrial
Development
Province/                                                                 of
Subproject   Curriculum                        Texibooksl   Ubraries/   lnformatioa   School
Development   Staff Trining       Guides     Laboratories  Workstations Based Granta Other
Cordoba          x                                             x          x          x
La Pmpa          x             x                x              x                     x
Mendoza          x             x                x              x          x                X4 XI
Misioner         x             x                x              x                           x'
Neuqudn          x             x                               x          x
Rio Negro        x             x                x              x                     x
Santa Fe         x             x                               x
3.  The sum of the components in percent will not add up to 100% since they do not include the National and
Provincial Project Coordination Units.
4. Compensatory Program for Adults - training and textbooks.
S. Improvement of Student Achievement Program - textbooks and special services.
6.   Streogthening of an Open and Distance Education Program - didactic matezials and teacher trining.



-30-
23.4 There are four main subcomponents contained in every subproject which would
comprise the bulk of what would support the project: (i) textbooks; (ii) didactic materials;
(iii) staff training: and (iv) informatics, curriculum development, and school based grants.
3.5   Textbooks. Textbooks in the basic core subjects will be provided for students either
individually, and/or through school libraries. The selection of textbooks will be done
through a two-step process: first, the provincial ministries will select a short list based on
quality and economic evaluation criteria from those available in the market; and second, the
schools will participate in the final selection of textbooks based on the preselected short-list.
In some provinces the production of new textbooks and/or complementary reading books will
be contracted on a competitive basis. Specifically, the project will finance over 3.5 million
textbooks.
3.6   Didactic Materials. Educational materials such as textbooks, school libraries, science
laboratories, and other supplementary materials are key inputs in the educational process.
Research worldwide has shown that provision of the above inputs is among the most effective
methods of increasing student learning. Given that availability of educational materials varies
widely among provinces and among schools in a given province, subproject proposals reflect
considerable heterogeneity. The project would finance: nearly 420 basic science laboratories;
approximately 125 modules in basic areas such as biology, physics, multimedia, information
and others; over 2,000 school libraries; over 5,000 teacher guides; over 1,000 sets of
supplementary learning materials such as maps, charts and dictionaries; and lastly, over 130
sets of televisions, videorecorders and cassettes. During the annual implementation review
(para. 5.20) the above figure would be reviewed and updated.
3.7   Staff Training. Together with education materials, teachers are a key factor within the
education process: their ability to facilitate or transmit knowledge and devise strategies for
reaching heterogeneous audiences is essential. The project would support training aimed at:
updating teacher's skills in basic subject disciplines; adequate use of education materials and
new technologies such as computers; and preparing teachers for the curriculum changes
already underway. The project would also support training of directors and supervisors in the
areas of school management and pedagogical monitoring and supervision. Specifically, the
project would finance: training for approximately 40,000 teachers in the contents of subject
disciplines, pedagogical strategies that make adequate use of education materials and
technologies and classroom management; training of around 1,000 directors and supervisors
in school management, pedagogical support, monitoring and supervision techniques; training
of 100 coordinators in support and dissemination practices; teaching and training materials;
teachers compensation for extra service hours; and fares and per diems associated with the
above activities. In some cases, staff training would be implemented through sub-contracts
with universities and post-secondary professional institutes, while in others, ministerial staff
would be responsible with external technical assistance.



-31-
Informatics. Secondary Education Curriculum Development, and School Based Grants.
Computers have become an important means for teaching different subjects --from the
sciences and language to extracurricular activities. Several provinces plan to establish
information workstations to instruct teachers and students on the use of computer
technologies and promote their participation in the design of relevant regional teaching
materials. Specifically, the project will finance approximately 3,000 computers, 400 printers,
plus educational software and other communication equipment. As discussed in para. 2.3,
the provinces are undergoing a process of curriculum reform and/or adaptation to the new
FEL law guidelines. To assist the provinces in this process, the project would support:
studies to evaluate the impact of prior, and more limited, curricula reforms already
undertaken by some provinces; studies that take stock ("estudios de situaci6n') of the
curricula presently taught in schools, especially among technical schools where there is very
large variance. This later type of study is necessary for revising and reorienting curriculum
to the new multi-modal cycle. The project would also support technical assistance for
curriculum planning and development, especially from specialists in different subject areas.
Production of curriculum guides, teachers guides and/or teaching materials, training of
teachers and educational staff in development of curricula and educational materials would
also be supported. Specifically, the project would finance: over 300 staff/months of local
technical assistance; approximately 20 staff/months of foreign technical assistance; training
for approximately 2,000 teachers, principals, and supervisors in curriculum development;
provision of training manuals and guides; and study tours and seminars. In addition, the
project would support special school based proiects designed as a mechanism to encourage
school initiatives through competition for extra financial resources. Through this grant
program the project would respond to local teaching conditions and support the improvement
of learning conditions within the school. Each school project would have a duration of one
year. The grants would be targeted to schools operating in disadvantaged areas and will be
allocated on a competitive basis. The grants would be used for funding non-personnel, non-
recurrent expenditure activities such as: (a) developing teaching and learning materials for
schools; (b) implementing cultural activities organized by groups of parents and teachers; and
(c) organizing school theater and/or school radio broadcasting operated by students and
teachers. The project will finance approximately 900 grants of around US$9,000 each;
training of teachers, directors, and supervisors in identification of school quality needs and
formulation of grant proposals; and production of dissemination and training materials.
Institutional Strengthening (US$ 48.4 million including contingencies, or 18% of total
project cost).
3.8   To overcome management deficiencies and complexities at the provincial level and in
keeping line vith the recommendations of the Bank's Portfolio Management Task Force7,
the project would support an institutional strengtnening component through a number of
different inputs and activities. Thexe are five general subcomponents, all of which are not
7. One of the principal recommendations of this report to improve Bank's portfolio performance management
is to 'oncentra selectively on critica& perfonnance variables' and 'avoid project complexity that may prevent
Borrowers from effectively implementing the projects.' Effective Imwlementation: Kea to Develdoment IMct.
Report of the World Bank's Portfolio Management Task Force. The World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1992.



-32-
included in every province, and whose contents vary from province to province depending on
diagnosed weaknesses and needs (Annex E). These subcomponents are: (i) development of
administrative organizations with efficient norms and procedures; (ii) development of
educational and financial planning capacity; (iii) development and implementation of a human
resource policy; (iv) development of a management information system; (v) development of a
student assessment system; and (vi) carry-out studies of the education sector internal
efficiency at the provincial level.
Table 3.3: Institutional Strengthening Subcomponents by Subproject
Development of
Administative    Development of
OrganizAtions    Educational and  Development and  Development of    Development
with Efficient  Ftancial     Implementation of a    a Management    of a Student
Notna and       Planning      Human Reaource    Information    Aueuament
Province       Procedures      Capacity         Policy           System         Sysem       Other
Cordoba           x               x               x                 x             x
LA Pampa          x                                                 x             x
Mendoza           x               x               x                 x             x
Misiones          x               x                                 x             x          x'
Neuquen           x                                                 x             x          x'
Rio Negro         x               x                                 x                        x"
SantaFi           x               x                                               x
3.9    Development of More Efficient Administrative Organization with Simpler Norms and
Procedures. To ensure that provinces have the necessary organizational set-up to carry out
responsibilities defined by the FEL (e.g. day to day administration of pre-university
education, planning and budgeting, and program supervision) the project would support
improvement of management capacity through: decentralization of administrative
organizations; equipping organizations with modern office technology; and establishing more
efficient procedures and norms. Restructuring would consist of: ensuring a clearer definition
of responsibilities among existing administrative organizations; creating new organizations to
meet enlarged areas of responsibility (such as budgeting, planning and assessment), and
elimination of organizations serving unnecessary functions. Furthermore, the project would
8.  Program to Maintain the Sector's Infrastructure.
9.  Decentralization and Strengthening of School Management.
10. Decentralization of the Education Sector (creation of zonal/local education councils).



-33-
support reform of current sectoral norms and administrative procedures to foster more
expedient decision-making and administrative processing. The project would finance:
approximately US$3.2m of technical assistance which will be contracted through a
competitive bidding process following Bank guidelines for consultant services; training for
around 8,000 administrative staff, directors and pedagogical supervisors; personal computers
(approximately 300) and other communications equipment; development of operational and
training manuals; and fares and per diems.
3.10 Development of Educational and Financial Programming Budgeting Capaity.
Provincial administrative organizations need to develop capacity to be able to anticipate and
monitor changing demands on their system and to orient their educational systems towards
desirable goals. Such capacity would make it possible to utilize management information
(see following paragraph). To improve management effectiveness, the project would
establish well-trained organizations capable of addressing issues such as enrollment growth,
growth in demand for teachers, or new demands for educational inputs, such as learning
materials or teacher training. Administrative organizations also need strong implementation
capacity in program areas like improved staff utilization, improved allocation of material
resources, and reduced disparities among students. The project will specifically support
strengthening of budget and financial management and planning in functions such as: control
of resource use by specific departments or line items; management of work being carried out
by each organizational unit; monitoring performance of administrative and educational
indicators; and analyzing the allocation of resources towards specific areas. This
subcomponent would also finance training for senior staff in the personnel departments in
records management, personnel management (i.e., recruitment, promotion, performance
incentives, and staff evaluation), education administration, applied informatics, and
information-based decision-making. Specifically, the project would finance: technical
assistance at a cost of around US$500,000 which will be contracted through a competitive
bidding process following Bank guidelines for consultant services; training for over 3,200
senior staff, directors and pedagogical supervisors; training and dissemination of materials;
and transportation and per diem.
3.11  Development of Managemient Information Systems (MIS) and Student Assessment
Systnms (SAS). The project would support the development of modern MIS and SAS systems
which are user friendly and which emphasize the timeliness and the usefulness of information
produced. The new MIS and SAS systems would be developed within each province and
extend to Regional Centers or schools, while also being linked to national networks. The
MIS would integrate modules for educational statistics, financial information, physical
inventory, human resources management, and educational research. To design a MIS, the
project would contract a specialized consulting firm using standard bank procedures.
Specifically, the project would finance: technical assistance at a cost of approximately $1.3m;
training for over 500 operators, policy analysts, planners and managers; around 70
staff/months of training for nearly 1,000 school directors and supervisors; over 1,100
personai computers, printers, fax machines, networks and other communications equipment;
training and operational materials; fares and per diems for the above training activities; and



-34-
maintenance, operation costs and recurrent salaries. Development of the SAS system would
provide data on student achievement in basic subject disciplines such as mathematics,
language, and science, which would permit federal and provincial authorities to monitor
progress towards academic goals. It would also permit these authorities to identify provinces
or schools that need special assistance. To design and implement the provincial SAS
organizations; the project would finance: local and foreign technical assistance at a cost of
approximately US$1.Om which would be contracted following Bank guidelines for consultant
services; training for approximately 200 operators, analysts, and managers; over 40 personal
computers, 20 printers, 15 fax machines, networks, and other communications equipment;
incremental recurrent expenses, which would include maintenance and operational expenses
and salaries; training, training materials and manuals; and fares and per diems.
3.12  Provincial Sector Productivity Studies. The project would finance, during the first
year of project execution, in-depth studies to identify inefficiencies in the use of human and
physical resources in each project province. The studies would: review the quality and
timeliness of existing personnel data bases (and their correspondence with payroll data
bases); assess procedures and practices in the personnel department of the PMEs; carry-out a
sample survey of staffing requirements and salary schedules by function; and analyses
provincial educational policies and practices with regard to personnel compensation,
incentives and attendance. Special attention would be paid to the problems of teacher
absenteeism and low student/teacher ratios. Activities to be financed under this subcomponent
include studies, surveys and technical assistance. The project would finance: local and
foreign technical assistance at a cost of approximately US$ 1.2 million which will be
contracted with specialized consulting firms following Banks consultant guidelines. Prior to
negotiations, the Government presented a final version of the terms of reference for the
studies. Action Plans to address sector Inefficiencies, satisfactory to the Bank In light
of the standards set by the project's impact indicators (Table R.1), would be condition
for disbursement of civil work components. Implementation of these Action Plans
would be a responsibility of each Provincial Government. The existence of Action Plans
is the condition for initiating disbursement of civil works regardless of whether Sector
Productivity Studies and the corresponding Action Plan has been carried out with Bank
financing. During negotiations the Bank and the Government agreed on the schedules
for carrying out the Sector Productivity Studies. During negotiations, the Bank was
Informed by the Argentinean authorities of the status of measures currently in-place to
improve efficiency.
Infrastructure Improvement (US$ 73.7 million including contingencies, or 27% of total
project cost).
3.13 Under this component the project would support improvements in educational quality
by constructing and rehabilitating secondary schools in resp)nse to needs caused by the
transfer. Furthermore, this component would support strengthening institutional capacity in a
decentralized framework by constructing and rehabilitating regional or local administration



-35-
facilities. As shown below, provincial infrastructure components vary considerably among
them. Prior to negotiations, the Bank received final versions of architectural designs,
construction specifications and list of sites for aU new civil works.
Table 3.4: Infrastructure Improvement Subcomponents by Subproject
School
Rehabilitationl   Conatfcion/
Expansion/    Rehabilitation Regional
Province         Construction     Compiction          Center         Other
Cordoba                                                 x
LA Pampa             x               x                  x
Mendoza              x               x
Misioncs             x                                  x            xU x"
Neuquen              x                                                x"
Rio Negro                            x                  x             xs
Santa                                x                  x
3.14 Construction. Expansion. and Rehabilitation of Schools. This subcomponent would
support provincial efforts to improve the quality of secondary education. The project would
support the construction of approximately 20 new schools. Additionally, the project would
finance the rehabilitation of about 130 deprived urban and rural secondary schools, many of
which were recently transferred from the national government. School rehabilitation projects
would be selected on the basis of their cost-effectiveness and provincial commitment to their
sustained maintenance. Furthermore, some 40 schools would undergo expansion and
approximately 5 schools would be completed. The technical, financial disbursement,
managerial, and logistical learning experience achieved in school remodeling in many
provinces through the Bank's Provincial I project would be transferred to this project.
3.15 Construction/Rehabilitation of Regional Centers and Administrative Facilities. To
strengthen institutions capacity to adopt new responsibilities defined by the FEL, the project
would rehabilitate and provide equipment for facilities. The project would finance
construction of central administrative facilities in two provinces and rehabilitation in three
11.  Gas installations in schiools.
12.  Rehabilitation of the Ministry of Education.
13.  Provision of classroom equipment to schools.
14. Construction of consolidated administrative headquarters.
15.  Construction of consolidated administrative headquarters.



-36-
others. In several provinces administrative decentralization will transfer responsibilities from
central provincial ministries toward regional or local ministerial offices. To this effect, the
project would support construction and equipment of Regional Centers (RCs) belonging to
and staffed by PMEs. RCs would be equipped to serve functions such as personnel
management, resource allocation, data gathering for the MIS, and supervision of schools. In
some instances, such as Cordoba, RCs would house information workshops for teacher
training. Specifically, the project would finance: construction and equipment of
approximately 7 regional centers in 4 participating provinces, ranging considerably in size
and magnitude of operation; and rehabilitation of 2 regional centers.
NATIONAL LEVEL
Institutional Strengthening Component and Infrastructure Rationalization (US$ 39.2
million including contingencies, or 1S% of total project cost).
3.16   Under this component the project would assist the NMCE to: (i) develop a national
management information system and national student assessment system; (ii) strengthen
management, financial, and administrative capacity; (iii) upgrade the skills of administrative
professionals at the national and provincial level; and (iv) carry out studies of the educational
sector internal efficiency at the national and provincial level.
3.17 Development of a National Management Information System (NMIS) and National
Student Assessment System (NSAS). A NMIS would be established to provide information
on: (i) educational statistics; (ii) educational infrastructure; (iii) socio-demographic trends;
(iv) number and profiles of NMCE human resources by level and location; (v) budgeting and
accounting; (vi) educational facilities; and (vi) educational documentation and research. The
project would finance the design and operation of the NMIS, articulation between the
National and Provincial management information systems, development and purchasing of
appropriate software and hardware, an administrative support system, training of NMIS
personnel, information and dissemination processes, and the required local and external
technical assistance. An important activity would be the execution of an "education census"
providing information on teachers, students and schools to overcome existing information
gaps and shortcomings emanating from the crisis during the 1980s. The census would
provide well-designed and consistent information on all jurisdictions of the federal system,
with special emphasis on data involving teachers.
3.18 A NSAS would be established to: (i) provide information and monitor student
academic achievement nationwide; (ii) define policies and strategies to improve educational
quality; (iii) process, create, and disseminate information on student achievement; (iv) assist
the project provinces in establishing their own provincial academic assessment; and (v)
compile academic achievement information provided by the provinces. The project would
support the design and organization of the system, the design of tests to meet high technical



-37-
standards, pilot measurements, and full-scale application of tests during the execution of the
project.
3.19 Specifically, the project would finance for the NMIS and NSAS: approximately US$
2.Om of local technical assistance; an estimated US$80,000 of foreign technical assistance;
training courses for approximately 11,500 managers, planners, operators and surveyors;
approximately 40 fellowships and study tours abroad to visit institutions with experience in
assessment; over 200 microcomputers along with printers and other communications
equipment; publications and dissemination activities; and operating expenses.
3.20 Strengthening of Management. Financial, and Administrative Capacity. The project
would support strengthening institutional capacity of the NMCE by improving: (i)
administrative and financial accounting systems; (ii) procurement and distribution procedures
for goods; (iii) management and maintenance of NMCE properties; and (iv) management of
personnel and educational systems. Specifically, the project would finance: the required
hardware and peripheral equipment (approximately 30 PCs, fax machines, and other
communications equipment); approximately US$350,000 of local technical assistance;
training for approximately 4,000 staff; publications and dissemination activities; and
transportation and per diem.
3.21  ypgrading the Skills of Administrative Professionals at the National and Provincial
Level. The project would strengthen the managerial and technical capacity of NMCE and the
project provinces by enabling approximately 200 high-level professionals to obtain
postgraduate training in: (i) education policy and management; (ii) economics of education
and financing; (iii) educational assessment; and (iv) curriculum improvement and innovation.
Specifically the project would finance a fund to provide loans to selected candidates to pursue
postgraduate studies through a program that would strengthen the education departments of
selected regional universities and provide short-term study tours abroad; select and contract a
qualified local university to develop masters and doctoral programs in liaison with a foreign
university; and provide funding for organizing, evaluating, staffing, and operating the
programs' administration. Specifically, the project would finance: approximately US$500,000
in local technical assistance; over 180 study tours; training for over 640 students; financing
for 5 in-country post-graduate programs; publications and dissemination activities; and
operating costs. Prior to negotiations, the final version of the plan to update the skills of
education sector professionals was presented to the Bank.
3.22  Education Sector Productivi.1t Studies at National Level, and for Second Group of
Provinces. The project would finance, during the first year of project execution, in-depth
studies to identify inefficiencies in the use of human and physical resources at the national
level and each of the project provinces to be selected for a future project. The study would:
review the quality and timeliness of existing personnel data bases (and their correspondence
with paycoll data bases); assess procedures and practices in the personnel department of the
NMCE and PMEs; carry-out a sample survey of staffing requirements and salary schedules
by function; and analyze provincial educational policies and practices with regard to



-38-
personnel compensation, incentives and attendance. Special attention would be paid to the
problems of teacher absenteeism and low student/teacher ratios. Activities to be financed
under this subcomponent include studies and surveys, and technical assistance. The project
would finance: local and foreign technical assistance which will be contracted with
specialized consulting firms following Bank's standard procedures; this amount includes
US$2.6 million for the national subproject and the second group of provinces. The
remaining amount of US$1.2 million is included under the provincial subprojects. Prior to
negotiations, the Govermnent presented a final version of the terms of reference of the
studies. Action Plans to address sector inefficiencies, satisfactory to the Bank in light of
the standards set by the project's impact indicators (Table R.1), would be condition for
disbursement of civil work component. Implementation of these Action Plans would be
a responsibility of the respective Federal or Provincial Government. The existence of an
Action Plan is the condition for initiating disbursement of civil works regardless of
whether a Sector Productivity Study and the corresponding Action Plan has been
carried out with Bank financing. During negotiations, the Bank and the Government
agreed on the schedules for carrying-out the Sector Productivity Studies. During
negotiation, the Bank was informed by the Argentinean authorities of measures
currently in-place to improve efficiency.
3.23 Rationalization of the Use of Physical Facilities and Development of the National
Center for Research and Documentation (NCRD'. The project would support the
rationalization of physical space by providing technical assistance to carry out an inventory of
NMCE facilities and elaborate a rehabilitation and maintenance plan. Specifically, the project
would finance approximately 120 staff/months of local consultants. The project would also
support the partial rehabilitation of NMCE headquarters by financing: remodeling, and
provision of furniture and office equipment for the "Paraguay Annex" of NMCE and the
National Center for Research and Documentation and Teacher's Library. Specifically, the
project would finance: approximately US$190,000 of local technical assistance; required
hardware and peripheral equipment (approximately 50 PC's, and printers; communications
equipment such as videocassettes, televisions, and film projectors; and furniture and other
office equipment.



-39-
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost of the Project
4.1   The total cost of the project is estimated at US$268.7 million based on local currency
prices of December 1993 converted to US dollars. The total foreign exchange cost is
estimated at US$34.5 million, or about 13% of the total cost. Table 4.1 summarizes the
estimated project costs by component and main intervention categories. Detailed project
costs for the national level subproject and the provincial subprojects are shown in Annex N,
Tables N.1.1-10.
Contingency Aliowance
4.2   Physical contingencies amount to 5% of base costs for civil works and maintenance,
and 3% of base costs for goods, and equipment. No physical contingencies are considered
for consultant services and training. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on Bank
calculations of international inflation. Local cost price contingencies are based on projected
local inflation of 6% yearly for the 1994-99 period.
Duties and Taxes
4.3   Locally procured and imported goods necessary for the project are subject to 18%
value-added tax. Imported goods will be exempt from customs tax. Taxes associated with
the project amount to about USS14.8 million.
B. Financing Plan
4.4   The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$190 million or 71% of
total project cost. The loan would cover 100% of foreign exchange expenditures and about
70% of estimated local costs (excluding taxes). Given the social nature of the project, the
bulk of project costs are composed of local expenditures, mainly comprising technical
assistance for development of a management information system and a student assessment
system, teacher training, and rehabilitation of school facilities. The Government of Argentina
would finance the remaining US$78.7 million (including duties and taxes) broken down as
follows: US$10.2 million from the Federal Government and US$68.5 from the Provincial
Governments. The proposed project cost sharing is in line with current guidelines given the
social nature of the project and its future impact on children in urban and rural marginal
areas which will benefit from increased social and economic opportunities. Table 4.2 shows
the project financing plan, with a breakdown by project categories.



-40-
Table 4.1: Summary Cost Table
% of       % of
LOCAL   FOREIGN         TOTAL        Base    Forcien
NACION Suboroiect
Institutional Strengthening                  22.6         4.8        27.5         12         1S
Infrastructure                                2.5         0.2         2.6          1          7
Project Coordination Unit                    12.8         0.2        13.0         6           1
Subtotal                                      37.9         5.2        43.1        19          12
CORDOBA Suboro*ect
Institutional Strengthening                   4.4         0.6         5.0         2          11
Quality Improvement                           5.0         4.5         9.5         4          47
Infrastructure                                4.7         0.3         5.0          2          6
Project Coordination Unit                     1.9          0.1        1.9          1          3
Subtotal                                      16.0         5.4        21.4        10          25
LA PAMPA Subpro*ect
Institutional Strengthening                   3.7          1.1        4.8         2          23
Quality Improvement                           5.0         0.7         5.7          3         12
Infrastructure                                4.7         0.3         5.1          2          7
Project Coordination Unit                     0.9         0.0         0.9         0           2
Subtotal                                      14.3         2.2        16.4         7          13
MENDOZA Subproiect
Institutional Strengthening                   3.9         0.9         4.7         2          1S
Quality Improvement                          21.5         6.3        27.7         12         23
Infrastructure                               11.0         0.7        11.7         5           6
Project Coordination Unit                     1.6         0.0         1.6          1          3
Subtotal                                      37.9         7.9        45.8        21          17
MISIONES Suboroiect
Institutional Strengthening                   6.2         0.8         7.0          3         12
Quality Improvement                           5.0          1.0        6.0         3          16
Infrastructure                                4.4         0.3         4.7         2           7
Project Coordination Unit                     1.1         0.0         1.1          0          2
Subtotal                                      16.7         2.1        18.8         8          11
NEUOUEN Suboroject
Institutional Strengthening                   3.4         0.7         4.1          2         16
Quality Improvement                          12.0          1.9       13.8         6          14
Infrastructure                                9.4         0.7        10.1          5          7
Project Coordination Unit                     1.1         0.0         1.1         0           0
Subtotal                                      25.9         3.2        29.1        13          11
RIO NEGRO Suboroict
Institutional Strengthening                   7.5          1.3        8.7         4          15
Quality Improvement                           3.3         0.6         3.9         2          16
Infrsstructure                               11.7         0.7        12.4         6           6
Project Coordination Unit                     1.8         0.0         1.8          1          0
Subtotal                                      24.2         2.6        26.9        12          10
SANTA FE SubDroiect
Institutional Strengthening                   4.3          1.6        5.9         3          28
Quality Improvement                           3.8         0.3         4.1         2           a
Infrastructure                                9.5         0.8        10.2         5           7
Project Coordination Unit                     1.2         0.0         1.2          1          2
Subtotal                                      18.7         2.7        21.5        10          13
Total Baseline Cost                          191.5        31.4       222.9       100          14
Physical Contingencies                         3.5         0.8         4.4         2
Price Contingencies                         39.2          2.2       41.4         19
Total Cost                                 234.3         34.5      268.7



-41-
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLANU
% Financing
Nacion &        IBRD      Nacion &       EBRD
TOTAL2/    Provinces           Loan     Provinces      Loan
Civil Works                                        49.5         19.6         29.8           40         60
Land                                                2.5          2.5          0.0          100          0
Informatics and Communication Equipment            17.6          3.5         14.1           20         80
Vehicis, Fumiture, Training Materials,             37.6          7.4         30.3           20         80
Teaching Materials & Equipment
Consultant Services 3/                             69.4          6.6         62.8           10         90
NPCU and PPCUr Peonnel                              3.9          1.5          2.3           40         60
Scholarships                                        4.5          0.0          4.5            0        100
Grants                                              8.2          0.0          8.2            0        100
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                          4.7          2.3          2.3           50         50
Operating Costs4/                                  19.4          5.8         13.6           30         70
Project Implementation Costs 5/                    36.8         14.6         22.2           40         60
Taxes                                              14.8         14.8          0.0          100          0
TOTAL                                             268.7         78.7        190.0           29         71
'!      Totals may not add due to rounding.
2V      Taxes are not included in totals and are listed on a separate line
;!      Includes: Studies, US$12.0 million; training consultants, USS12.7 million; technical assistance, US$43.1 million;
and auditing, US$1.6 million.
4/      Includes: building and equipment maintenance, office rentals, insurance, utilities, operating cost, publications, and
office materials.
S/      Includes: Fares and per diems for training and project coordination, office rentals and materials, utilities,
publications, promotion, and bidding expcnse needed for project implementation.
C. Education Sector Budget for 1994 and Beyond
4.5     The Budget Law  for 1994 provides 2.4 billion pesos for expenditures for education
and culture for the national administration', which includes educational expenditures of
entities other than the NMCE. The NMCE budget itself is 2.05 billion pesos, which
represents an increase of 19.5%  over 1993 (Annex D, Charts I and 2 and Table D. 10). The
budget for education and culture amounts to 6.1 %  of the total national administration budget
and 9.5% of the national social sector budget.
4.6    The 1995 budgets for the participating provinces are under preparation. While some
provinces have already made provision for counterpart financing in their 1995 budget, other
1.      National administration includes central government, decentralized agencies, and special accounts, that
undertake expenditures at the national level.



-42-
provinces would need to do so. At negotiation, the Government provided assurances of
the availability of counterpart financing. The new Federal Law of Education requires that,
starting in 1993, both Federal and provincial education investment budgets for the next five
years increase by 20% or by 50% as share of GDP, whichever is higher (para. 2.46). The
necessary financing could be raised, if unavailable, through new taxes on other sectors
(Federal Law of Education, Articles 61 and 62). This is an ambitious goal and will need to
be ratified by the provincial legislatures. If implemented, it would provide the necessary
resources for revitalizing the sector.
D. Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project
4.7   The proposed project will give rise to some incremental operating costs that will
continue after the project is completed, such as the costs of personnel for the National
Management Information and Student Assessment Systems. These are expected to total
$7.6 million pesos in 1999, the last year of project implementation, and subsequent years
(Table 4.3). By comparison, total projected public spending on education in the seven
project provinces in 1999 would be $3,613 million pesos. Expected incremental recurrent
costs amount to 0.02% of the seven provinces education budget for 1999.
4.8   The project will lead to several categories of savings and economic benefits that will
more than offset the increased recurrent costs. As presented in Annex D, Part II,
conservative estimates of partial benefits that will accrue to the project provinces would be
on the order of US$55 million per year around the year 2000 and beyond, once the project is
in operation and its programs take effect. These estimated benefits include savings from
reduced repetition (US$13.8 million), incremental earnings of students who otherwise would
not complete the secondary level (US$2.48 million), a two percent improvement
instudent:teacher ratios (US$36.30 million), and a five percent reduction in administrative
costs of PMEs (US$2.84 million).
E. Project Sustainability
4.9   The effect of the proposed project on sector expenditures and the ability of the federal
and participating provincial governments to sustain the resulting increase in expenditures--
both in terms of the counterpart financing during implementation and the future additional
incremental recurrent expenditure--has been a matter of continuous discussion with the
federal and provincial governments. As part of the eligibility criteria for participation in the
proposed project, the participating provinces had to meet the financial performance criteria of
the Argentina Provincial Development Project (loan No.3280-AR), especially on the status of
their fiscal balance.
4.10 Education expenditures ranged from 21 to 29% of provincial public expenditures in
the seven participating provinces in 1993 (Table D.4). While this is not unreasonable given



-43-
the provincial focus on education, health and basic infrastructure, as well as increased
provincial responsibility for secondary education, it is clear that improvements in quality and
access during the next few years must come primarily from efficiency gains and improved
use of resources. This is a key focus of the project. Counterpart financing requirements and
incremental recurrent expenditures arising from the project will average annually less than
0.5% of provincial expenditures during the lifetime of the project. The ministries of economy
of all participating provinces have shown their commitment and willingness to provide for
counterpart financing by signing financial commitment letters. In some provinces, such as
Cordoba, counterpart financing is already included in the 1994 budget and has been sent to
the provincial legislature. At negotiations, the federal and provincial governments
provided assurances on the provision of counterpart funds each year during project
implementation in the amount of US$20.5m for 1995, US$23.Om for 1996, US$15.7m for
1997, US$10.6m for 1998, and US$8.8m for 1999. These figures would be used as the
basis for annual discussions between the federal and the participating provincial governments
and the Bank. Table 4.4 shows the annual counterpart funds to be made available by the
federal and principal governments during each year of project implementation.
4. 11 To ensure sustainability, the project draws from the Bank's worldwide experience in
educational investment projects.2 Under this framework of lessons learned, project design
has taken into consideration from the preparation stage, the following measures: (i)
establishing monitoring indicators expressed in quantitative targets to be reached for each
year of project implementation; (ii) linking project monitoring and evaluation to the planning
and management information system that the project would support; (iii) defining with the
borrowers a set of performance indicators which will be used to evaluate the improvements
in quality and efficiency during the implementation period and after the project completion;
and (iv) agreeing with the borrowers on the execution of an in-depth study at the national and
provincial level to identify inefficiencies in the use of human and physical resources and
whose recommendations would be presented in the form of Action Plans. With these
measures, the project aims to ensure that gains made in quality and efficiency would improve
the borrowers investment capacity to sustain the recurrent costs after project completion.
2. 'Me Sustaiuabilitv ot Investment Proiect* in. Education, Report No. 9225, Opertions Evaluation
Dep,artment, Tre World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1991.



-44-
Table 4.3: Estimated Annual Recurrent Expenditures
Arising From The Project
Subproject              Cost with Contingencies in US$ million
I2W     122m   122k    1222   1221   1222
Naci6n                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cordoba                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
La Pampa                   0.5    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Mendoza                    0.6    0.1    0.1       0.1    0.1    0.2
Misiones                   1.2    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3
Neuquen                    1.7    0.2    0.3       0.4    0.4    0.4
Rio Negro                  0.7    0.0    0.2    0.3    0.2    0.0
Santa F6                   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
ToWa                       4.7    0.5      1.0    1.1    1.1    0.9
Table 4.4: Annual Counterpart Funds
for the National and Provincial Subproject
$ Millions
I229    1M2       1997     1221       1999
Naci6n                   4.2       1.9       1.5      1.3        1.2
Cordoba                  2.7       1.7       1.3      1.0        1.0
La Pampa                 1.7       2.0       1.4      0.6        0.5
Mendoza                  4.8       5.0      2.7       2.4        1.8
Misiones                 1.5       1.9      2.0       1.1        0.8
Neuquen                  2.3       4.8      2.7       1.0        0.9
Rio Negro                1.4       2.2      2.5       2.6        2.0
Santa Fd                  1.9      3.5       1.6      0.6        0.6
Total                   20.5      23.0      15.7     10.6        8.8



- 45 -
V. IMPLEMENTATION, PROJECT MANAGEMENT, PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT, AUDITNG, MONITORING, AND SUPERVISION
A. Status of Preparation
5.1   Consultants hired for the preparation of various project components and to provide
assistance to the provincial preparation units were financed by the PRONATASS Project.
Each project component and subcomponent is consistent with the Government and Bank's
sector policies, objectives, and strategies, as indicated in para.2.44 to 2.59. The Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) was set up under the Secretarfa de Programacidn y Evaluacil6n
Educativa, and at the provincial level, local Project Preparation Units prepared the provincial
subprojects under the guidance of the Secretariat of Programming. The Bank provided
substantial technical assistance both to the central and provincial PPUs.
5.2   Project preparation has proceeded to an advanced stage of readiness for
implementation. Action plans for each activity, terms of reference, and implementation
schedules were prepared and discussed with the Bank. Various startup activities are now
being undertaken, including those related to technical and bidding specifications for materials
and civil works. Since preparation activities are under the Secretariat of Programming and
Educational Assessment, which reports directly to the Minister of Education, the project
enjoys substantial support and commitment on the part of local authorities.
B. Implementation Schedule
5.3   The project is expected to be implemented over a five-year period, from January
1995 to December 1999. The NPCU and PPCUs and the Bank would update and review the
implementation schedules during the annual reviews (see para. 5.21). The implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 0, while yearly implementation targets (monitoring matrix) are
shown in Annex R.
C. Project Management
5.4   Project implementation would be carried out within the existing organizational
structures of the NMCE and PMEs, supported by project coordination units at both the
national level (the National Project Coordination Unit (NPCU)), and the provincial level (the
Provincial Project Coordination Units (PPCUs)). The overall responsibility of project
implementation will rest under the Secretariat of Programming and Evaluation, while the
Undersecretariat of Programming and Education Management will have the responsibility for
project execution and coordination. Each of the project coordination units will comprise a
management structure with programmatic and service subunits. The programmatic units will
be in charge of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of their respective project



- 46 -
components, whereas the service units will be responsible for a wide range of activities
including: (a) planning, programming, monitoring, and evaluation of subproject activities; (b)
procurement of civil works, goods and services; (c) hiring technical assistance, and
personnel; (d) budgeting, financing, disbursement and accounting of the subprojects; and (e)
hiring independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The heads of these subunits would
report to the unit's overall Project Coordinator, who in turn will report to that provinces'
Minister of Education or, in the case of the national subproject, the Technical Secretariat of
Operations. Annex P describes the Project Management, Objective and Structure, as well as
NPCU and PPCU function, responsibilities and staffing. Chart P. I shows the PCU
organizational structure, and Table P. 1 is a tentative distribution of functions and
responsibilities among the NPCU, PPCU, IBRD, and the Ministry of Economy. A final
version of the resolutions establishing the NPCU and PPCU's were presented at
negotiations. The legal establishment of the NPCU and at least two PPCUs would be
needed to declare the loan effective (in those same provinces with signed subsidiary
agreements, as discussed in para. 5.6). The legal establishment of the remaining PPCUs
would be a condition for loan disbursement for each remaining province. Project
implementation arrangements between the NMCE and PMEs were confirmed during
negotiations.
5.5   The NMCE would be responsible for coordination with the Bank and other federal
ministries. The NPCU would have responsibility over the following areas: (a) directing,
coordinating, and supervis,ng the overall project implementation; (b) serving as the technical,
administrative, and operational counterpart of the World Bank during the life of the project;
(c) monitoring project execution according to the project monitoring matrix explained in
Annex R, Tables R.2.-R.9; (d) preparing administrative and technical guidelines and
procedures required for project implementation; (e) timely submission to the Bank of
disbursement applications for civil works, goods, and services payments; and (0 periodically
reporting to the NMCE and the Bank on project implementation. PPCUs on the other hand
would be responsible for: (a) coordinating and supervising implementation of their respective
subprojects; (b) coordinating and administering the bidding procedures for civil works,
goods, and services required by their subproject implementation schedule; (c) timely
submission to the NPCU of disbursement applications for civil works, goods, and services
payments; (d) coordinating PCUs activities with PMEs, subprovincial offices, NGOs and
other participating entities; and (e) periodically reporting to the provincial Ministers of
Education and the NMCE on project implementation. Project coordinators would be assisted
in policy and monitoring by a Project Consultative Council (PCC). The PCC would be
comprised of the national Minister of Education or his(her) representative, the Secretary of
Educational Programming and Evaluation, and the provincial Ministers of Education from all
of the project provinces. The main responsibility of PCC would be to analyze policy and
strategy, monitor project implementation targets, and resolve any implementation or
organizational problems that may arise. Annex P, table P.2 describes in more detail the
staffing requirements of each PCU. Salaries of staff employed by the different subprojects
would be fully paid out of project funds. The resolution establishing the Project



- 47 -
Consultative Council (Instancia de Consulta Institucional) would be promulgated prior to
loan effectiveness.
5.6   Loan Arrangements. The proceeds of the loan will be on-lent from the Ministry of
Economy to the Provincial Governments who will have the obligation to repay, to the
Federal Government, under the same terms and conditions of the Bank loan. To this effect,
a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, will be signed between the Ministry of
Economy, NMCE, and each participating province. These subsidiary loan agreements will
include a description of the provinces' financial and project obligations as well as provisions
for: withdrawals, conditionalities, remedies, and bearing of the foreign exchange risk. The
final draft version of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be signed by the Ministry of
Economy, NMCE, and each participating province, was presented at negotiations. At
least two signed subsidiary loan agreements would be needed to declare the loan
effective. The subsidiary loan agreements signed between the Federal Government and
each remaining province would be a condition of disbursement for each respective
subproject.
D. Procurement
5.7   The project would involve procurement of civil works, equipment, furniture, didactic
materials and equipment, consultants services, and training. Procurement of goods, works
and services, subject to Bank financing, would be carried out by: the NPCU for the NMCE
subproject; and by the seven PPCUs, for their subprojects in a completely decentralized way,
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement methods would require documents and
procedures as follows:
(a)   International competitive bidding (ICB) would require the use of Bank issued
standard bidding documents, which are mandatory. Under ICB, domestic
preference may be applied, in accordance with Bank guidelines for the
procurement of goods;
(b)   Limited international bidding (LIB) would also require the use of Bank issued
standard bidding documents;
(c)   Local competitive bidding (LCB) would be carried out using standard bidding
documents. The format and content of the prototype document for LCB
was agreed at negotiations.
(d)   Local shopping would be done according to procedures acceptable to the Bank
and will require a minimum of three price quotations;
(e)   Selection and appointment of consultants would be done in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants issued in August 1981. The Bank



- 48 -
standard form of contract is mandatory for time-based consulting services. A
final version of the standard letter of Invitation and contract model was
agreed during negotiations; and
(f)   During negotiations the Bank informed the borrower that any proposed
change to Bank standard procurement documentation should be kept to
essential aspects and would require approval by the Bank.
5.8   Table 5.1 summarizes procurement methods for the proposed project. Procurement
for the different categories to be financed with the Bank loan would comply with the
procedures stated in the paras. below
5.9   Civil works. The project would allocate US$53.5 million, or 20 percent of total
project cost, to construction and rehabilitation of schools and other facilities. Contracts for
civil works expected to exceed US$5.0 million -aggregating to approximately US$20.0
million, or 7 percent of total project cost- would be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures.
Contracts for works expected to cost between US$300,000 and US$5.0 million, with an
aggregate amount of approximately US$23.0 million, or approximately 9 percent of total
project cost, would be awarded through LCB procedures. Civil works contracts to cost less
than US$300,000, expected to aggregate to US$10.5 million, or around 4 percent of total
project cost, would be awarded through local shopping procedures.
5. 10 Goods.
(a)   Informatics (computers, peripheral equipment, computer software), and
communications (fax and photocopying) equipment in packages of US$100,000
or more, will be procured on the basis of limited international bidding (LIB)
procedures among firms that have established maintenance services in the
country. The estimated amount for this bidding procedure would reach an
aggregate amount of US$15.5 million, or 6 percent of total project cost.
Packages to cost below US$100,000 would be procured through local
shopping, and they are expected to aggregate to US$5.6 million, or 2 percent
of total project cost, approximately; and
(b)   Vehicles, furniture, training materials, and books/didactic materials/equipment
in packages of US$250,000 or more would be procured following ICB
procedures. Textbooks will be awarded on the basis of two-step ICB
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines for all contracts valued above
US$250,000 each, following the procedures indicated in para. 3.5. The
aggregate for these packages would be approximately US$10.0 million, or 4
percent of total project cost. Packages valued between US$100,000 and
US$250,000, aggregating to US$19.5 million, or 7 percent of total project
cost, would be procured through LCB procedures. Packages valued below
US$100,000 would be procured through local shopping procedures. These



- 49 -
packages would aggregate to US$15.0 million approximately, about 6 percent
of total project cost.
5.11 Technical Assistance. The project would allocate: (a) US$43.1 million for technical
assistance consultants; (b)US$12.0 million for studies and US$1.6 million for audits; (c)
US$12.7 million for training consultants; and (d) US$3.9 million for NPCU and PPCUs
personnel.
5.12 The cost of land, where construction works will take place, will be entirely financed
with Government counterpart funds.
5.13 Prior review. All prior review procedures would be undertaken by the Bank
separately for each one of the seven provinces and the NPCU. Prior review by the Bank
would be required for all procurement documentation in the case of ICB and LIB contracts
and for the first LCB contracts for civil works, furniture, and didactic materials/equipment,
respectively, for each of the first three years of the project for each province and NMCE.
For all civil works, contracts valued above US$1.0 million would be subject to prior review.
To the extent possible, consultant services will be awarded in the form of packages (e.g.
productivity studies, MIS, and SAS) with terms of reference always requiring prior review
by the Bank. Furthermore, all documentation for the hiring of consulting firms for contracts
valued at US$50,000 or more would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All
documentation for the hiring of individual consultants for contracts valued at US$20,000 or
more would also be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other contracts would be
reviewed in the field by sampling on an ex-post basis, during Bank supervision missions. If
it were determined that procurement was not made in accordance with agreed procedures,
then no expenditures for such items would be financed with proceeds from the loan and the
Special Account would have to be reimbursed accordingly by the Borrower. Overall, the
proposed review procedures would cover about 60 percent of the total value of the contracts
for goods and works to be financed with the Bank loan. Table 5.2 summarizes procurement
review procedures.
5.14 Since Bank procurement procedures would be new for many of the provinces the
NPCU with Bank support would organize seminars and a support system to help the
provinces execute procurement under the respective projects. The final bidding document
models for LCB and ICB, and the letter of invitation for consultants were reviewed
during negotiations.



- 50 -
Table 5.1
Procurement Methods by Category/
(In US$ Million)
ICB       LCB        Other        NBF      Total
Civil Works                                            20.0       23.0       10.Sb/                 53.5
(11. 1)    (12.8)       (5.9)               (29.8)
Informatics & Communications Equipment                                       21.lc/                 21.1
(14.1)               (14.1)
Vehicles, Fumiture, Trining Materials &                 10.0      19.5       15.0b/                 44.5
Didactic Materias/Equipmcnt                            (6.8)     (13.2)       (10.2)               (30.2)
Consulants for:
T.A.                                                                        43.1                 43.1
(39.0)               (39.0)
Studies and Audits                                                          13.6                 13.6
(12.3)               (12.3)
Trmining                                                                    12.7                 12.7
(11.5)               (11.5)
NPCU and PPCUs                                                               3.9                  3.9
(2.3)                (2.3)
Scholarships                                                                    4.5                  4.5
(4.5)                (4.5)
Ornts                                                                           8.2                  8.2
(8.2)                (8.2)
Project Implementation Expenditures d/                                         36.8                 36.8
(22.1)               (22.1)
Land                                                                                       2.5       2.5
0.0       0.0
Incremental Recurrent Salaries                                                  4.7                  4.7
(2.3)                (2.3)
Oprating Costs e/                                                              19.8                 19.8
(13.6)               (13.6)
Total                                                  30.0       42.5        193.7        2.5    268.7
(17.9)    (26.0)      (146.1)       0.0   (190.0)
a/ Totals include taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses show allocation of loan proceeds.
bl Local shopping.
cl Limited intemational bidding (LIB) up to approximately US$15.5 million, and shopping up to US$5.6 million.
d/ Includes expenditures required during project implementatin such as: personnel, fares and perdiems for training and
project coordination, office materials, office rentals, utilities, publications and promotion, and bidding expenditures.
e/ Includes building & equipment maintenance, insurance, rentals, utilities, publications, and office materials.



- 51 -
Table 5.2
Summary of Procurement Review Procedures
Category                         Procedure                  Prior Bank Review
Works
Less than US$300,000                        Shopping
US$300,000-US$1 million                       LCB                 First contract of the first three
years for each province and for
the NMCE
More than US$1 million-US$5 million           LCB                             All
More than US$5 million                        ICB                             All
Goods
Vehicles, Informatics & Communication
Equipment
More than US$100,000                       LIB                            All
US$100,000 or less                       Shopping
Furniture, training materials, and Didactic
Materials/Equipment
More than US$250,000                      ICB                             All
US$100,000 - US$250,000                   LCB                  First contract of the first three
years for each province and for
the NMCE
Less than US$100,000                     Shopping
Consultant services                                                              All
Contracts with firms for
US$50,000 or more
All
Contracts with individuals for
US$20,000 or more
E. Accounts and Disbursements
5.15 The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed in accordance with
the schedule shown in Annex Q, Table Q. 1, over a period of five years. It has been
assumed that the loan would become effective in October 1994, and that the project's
estimated completion and closing dates would be December 31, 1999, and June 30, 2000
respectively. The disbursement period, shorter than the seven-year profile for Latin
America, was determined after taking into account: a) the advanced status of project
preparation; b) the decentralized project implementation planned for each province; and c)
strong National and provincial Government commitment towards the project. The allocation
of loan amount and disbursement percentages are summarized in Table 5.3. Disbursements
would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for all expenses except those
covered by contracts requiring prior review by the Bank. Except for the first contract for
each province or the NMCE for the first three years of the project for works, furniture and
didactic materials/equipment procured under LCB, SOEs will be used for contract for: (a)



- 52 -
civil works not exceeding $1.0 million, (b) informatics and communication equipment not
exceeding $100,000; (c) vehicles, furniture and didactic materials/equipment not exceeding
$250,000; and (d) consulting firms and individuals not exceeding $50,000 and $20,000
respectively. SOEs will be certified locally by the PPCU of the respective province and at
the national level by the NPCU. Disbursement for contracts requiring prior review would be
fully documented. Relevant documentation in support of SOEs would not be submitted to the
Bank, but would be retained by the NPCU. When expenditures are incurred by PPCUs,
copies of such documents would be supplied to the NPCU by the PPCUs and be made
available, along with NPCU documentation, to Bank supervision missions. The NPCU will
develop a manual (using the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook as a guide) for use by
the provinces explaining the procedures for reimbursement. Among other things, the manual
will indicate that at monthly intervals (the date to be determined between each PPCU and
NPCU), each PPCU will submit for reimbursement expenditures by a summary sheet (with
evidence of payment) or statement of expenditure (in which case evidence of payment will be
maintained by each PPCU). It will also indicate how direct payment to suppliers and
payment in foreign currencies will be effected. Furthermore, it will note that upon receipt of
each request for reimbursement by the province, the NPCU will have two working days to
request the transfer of funds or return the request with a detailed explanation of the reason
for the return and changes needed to rectify the request. The Bank would finance up to
US$13 million (approximately 7 percent of the proposed loan) retroactively for expenditures
incurred after June 15, 1994 and in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
Retroactive financing is required so the Federal and Provincial Governments may begin the
gradual implementation of the sector productivity study, management and student assessment
systems, and teacher training, and facilitate the timely start-up of the project.
Table 5.3: Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Amount of the Loan         % or
Allocated (Expressed in  Expenditures
Category                                 Dollar Equivivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                              27,000,000              60%
(2) Goods (Informatics and communication     40,000,000              80%
equipment, vehicles, furniture, training
materials, and didactic
materials/equipment)
(3) Consultants' services for:
(a) Technical Assitance, Training, studies  57,000,000            90%
and auditing
(b) NPCU and PPCUs                        3,500,000               60%
(4) School-based grants and scholarships     12,000,000              100%
(5) Incremental recurrent ularies            2,000,000               50%
(6) Opeating costs                           12,000,000              70%
(7) Project Implementation costs             18,500,000              60%
(8) Unallocated                              18Q0000
TOTAL                                   190.000.000



- 53 -
Table 5.4 shows the estimated IBRD loan disbursement schedule
Table 5.4: IBRD Loan Estimated Disbursement
FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Annual        29.4   51.8   45.9   30.6   32.3
Cumulative    29.4   81.2  127.1  157.7  190.0
5.16 Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the National
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank a special account in US dollars at the Banco de la Nacidn. To cover the average
four-month loan allocation needed by each provincial subproject, the Bank would make an
initial deposit of up to US$ 10 million to the special account. Subsequently, a specific
project account with funds advanced by each respective govemment would be opened by each
province at a branch of Banco de la Naci6n in the respective locatity, or at a provincial bank.
This specific project account which will include counterpart funds will have an average flow
of funds sufficient to cover expenditures for two months of operation. The NPCU would
request the Bank to replenish the special account on the basis of standard disbursement
procedures, and would replenish the provincial subsidiary accounts on a monthly basis upon
PPCU's presentation of statement of expenditures or summary sheets. Withdrawals from the
special account would be supported by sufficiently detailed documentation or SOE in
accordance with Bank disbursement procedures.
F. Audits
5.17 Annual audits of the Special Account for the project (managed by the National
Government), and each specific provincial project account, would be performed by the
Auditorfa General de la Naci6n (AGN) which would be responsible for reviewing the audit
plan, supervising the audit, reporting, and subcontracting when necessary independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The AGN is considered an auditing entity acceptable to the
Bank. The auditors will: (a) audit all Special Accounts, specific project accounts, SOEs,
and summary sheets; (b) apply auditing standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
that conform to generally accepted auditing practices; (c) carry out its auditing work in a
timely manner (an annual report would be presented no later than six months after the end of
each calendar year); and (d) render an audit opinion or provide reasons why such an opinion
cannot be rendered. Prior to negotiations, the Bank provided assistance to define auditing
procedures in accordance to preliminary arrangements discussed during appraisal.



- 54 -
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision
5.18 In line with project objectives, key efficiency and quality indicators (Annex R, Table
R. 1) will be monitored to facilitate policy discussions and to track and support improvements
in the overall efficiency and effectiveness of secondary education including activities to foster
participation of parental business and non-governmental groups. To support spot-checking
over the project's life in any of its subprojects and subcomponents, a detailed yearly
implementation target matrix has been prepared (see Annex R, Table R.2)
5.19 The NPCU would be responsible for overall project monitoring and evaluation on the
basis of the above mentioned project monitoring indicators. At negotiation agreements
were reached on final monitoring and impact indicatorsm npact targets to be achieved
after completion of the Sector Productivity Study (para. 3.23) would be a responsibility
of the Government and Province under the Loan Agreement. Annex R, Table R. 10
delineates the supervision plan, including the skill matrix needed, regular bank staff, local
and international consultants given the nature of the project, supervision arrangements are
expected to result in an average of 27 staffweeks (SW) per year. Economies of scale will be
obtained with this supervision plan when the second project becomes operational.
Furthermore, the Bank Resident Mission will be staffed with a specialist who will provide
direct assistance to the NMCE who will be responsible for project supervision.
5.20 Regarding progress reports, these would be consolidated by the NPCU and sent to the
Bank for review no later than three months after completion of each calendar year. These
progress reports should include: (a) an annual progress report on project implementation; (b)
a measure of quantitative and qualitative objectives achieved against the monitoring indicators
shown in the implementation matrix; and (c) an updated and reviewed project implementation
schedule and action plans for the implementation of project components during the following
current year. A project Completion Report would be prepared by NPCU and submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the Loan.
5.21 The NPCU and the Bank would conduct joint annual implementation reviews no later
than March 30th of each year to: (a) analyze the previous year's performance and budget
execution; (b) analyze the proposed work plan and budget for the following year; (c) discuss
adjustments to be made in the project's implementation schedule.
5.22 The NPCU, the PPCUs, and the Bank would conduct, with prior approval of the
terms of reference by the Bank, and no later than 30 months after loan effectiveness, a mid-
term review to analyze project implementation experience and possible project impact (with
special focus on the monitoring and performance indicators delineated in Annex R). An
action plan based on the results of the review should be implemented within three months of
the review's completion.



-55 -
VI. EXPECTED BENEFiTS AND RISKS
A. Expected Benefits
6.1   The project would: (a) contribute to a more educated and trainable workforce by
raising students cognitive achievement and problem solving skills; (b) increase the
opportunity of children in urban marginal and rural areas to receive a better quality education
thus increasing their possibilities in the labor market and opportunities for social mobility; (c)
help consolidate the decentralization process by strengthening provincial institutions, thus
inducing more efficient responses to local problems; and (d) help increase sector
productivity, thus creating net savings for the education sector which could be reallocated to
inputs which have a high impact on educational quality (e.g., textbooks and teacher training).
The economic benefits of such investments are difficult to quantify, especially in the
Argentine context where important data are unavailable. There are, however, certain partial
benefits for which it is possible to calculate economic values. As discussed in Chapter IV
and Annex D, Part II, the project would generate estimated savings and economic benefits of
US$55 million per year once efficiency-enhancing programs are in effect. This would
include annual savings of approximately US$13.8 million through a 25% reduction in
repetition in the secondary schools of the seven project provinces, US$2.48 million in
incremental earnings of students who otherwise would have dropped out before completing
the secondary cycle, US$36.30 million from a conservatively-estimated two percent
improvement in student:teacher ratios, and US$2.84 million from a five percent reduction in
administrative costs (Annex D, Part II, para. 8).
B. Risks
6.2   The main risks associated with the project would be: (a) limited implementation
capacity at both the national and provincial levels as well as limited sectoral experience with
Bank financed projects; and (b) unresolved policy decisions and political frictions among
federal and provincial governments arising from implementation of FEL such as definition of
new curriculum content, the criteria for compensation policies towards the provinces, and
funding implications.
6.3 Regarding limited implementation capacity, the design of the central and provincial
subprojects includes one central project coordination unit and seven implementation units at
the provincial level staffed by high level personnel. Additionally, the Bank has begun and
will continue to train local staff in Bank procedures (disbursement and procurement) to speed
up project implementation. Additionally, the Bank has agreed with the Government on the
content of bidding documents. Furthermore, provincial project coordination units will
benefit from the experience of other Bank Project Execution Units. Lastly, the project will
train ministerial staff in management and implementation issues. To better monitor the
decentmlization process and supervise project and non-project activities, an MIS will be



- 56 -
established and training of NMCE and PME staff in management skills and Bank procedures
(e.g. procurement) would be supported. To face unresolved policy decisions the project
design has incorporated studies and institutional strengthening, which will advance the policy
process in key areas (e.g., curriculum reform and implementation of compensatory policies)
by establishing planning mechanisms, providing analytical information and training technical
personnel.



-57-
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. - Agreements
7.1   During negotiations. agreement or assurances were reached with the Argentine Government
on the following:
(a)   Schedules for carrying-out the Sector Productivity Studies, and presentation to
the Bank, of the corresponding Action Plans for the provinces. The Bank also
discussed current measures in place to improve efficiency (see para. 3.22);
(b)   Assurances were provided by the Federal and Provincial Governments on the
provision of specified amounts of counterpart funds for each year of project
implementation and thereafter (para. 4.10);
(c)   Project implementation arrangements between the NMCE and PMEs including
the distribution of responsibilities for procurement and disbursement
procedures (para. 5.4 );
(d)   Final version of the subsidiary loan agreements between the Federal
Government and Provincial Governments (para. 5.6 );
(e)   Final version of document models for LCB, ICB and a letter of invitation for
consultants (para. 5.14); and
(f)   Final agreement on performance and project monitoring indicators
(para. 5.19).
7.2 For loan effectiveness the Bank would require:
(a)   The legal establishment of the NPCU and at least two PPCUs, in those same
provinces with signed subsidiary loan agreements (para. 5.4);
(b)   The resolution issued by the Minister of Education establishing the Project
Executive Council -Instancia de Consulta Institucional- (para. 5.5); and
(c)   At least two signed subsidiary loan agreements (para. 5.6);
7.3 For disbursement in each subproject the Bank would require:
(a)   Action Plans by subproject to address sector inefficiencies, satisfactory to the
Bank (for disbursement of civil works) in light of the standards set by the



-58-
project's performance indicators (Table R. 1), regardless of whether a Sector
Productivity Study and the corresponding Action Plan has been carried out
with Bank financing (para. 3.22);
(b)   The legal establishment of PPCUs in each remaining province (para. 5.4); and
(c)   Signed subsidiary loan agreements for each remaining subproject
(para 5.6).
B. Recommendations
7.4   Subject to the above assurance and conditions, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$190.0 million for the Argentine Republic, repayable in
a 15-year repayment period including a grace period of five years with loan amortization
based on level repayments of principal.



-59-                                       Annex A
ANNEX A: COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
Educational                             Enrollment Ratioc
Uliterato Popul.   Expondituroc    Pro-School
a*% of 15+        as Percent of     Ed.**      Primary Ed.    Secondary Ed.   Higher Ed.
Total   Female   GNP    Gov. Exp.      Not     Gross   Not    Gross    Not       Gross
ARGENTINA
1975            NA      NA       2.5       9.5        N/A       106    96      54      42        27.2
1980            6.1      NA      3.6      15.1         28       106    90      S6      38        21.6
1987-           4.5      5.0     4.0       8.9         39       11S    90       74     56        40.8
BOLIVIA
1975           36.8      NA      3.5       NA         NA        85      73     31      21        11.2
1980            NA      NA       4.4      25.3         17       87     72      36       16       12.6
19870          25.8    34.9      3.1      20.1         16       97     78      37      27        16.6
BRAZIL
1975           24.3     NA       3.0       NA         NA        88      71     26       9        10.7
1980           25.5     NA       3.5       NA          14       99     81      34       14       11.9
19870          22.3    23.5      4.5      17.7         27       95      84      38      15       10.9
CHILE
1975            NA       NA      4.1      12.0        NA        112    94      48       34       15.6
1980            8.9      NA      4.6      11.9         24      112    98       53                13.2
1987-           5.6      NA      3.6      15.3         32       102    89      74       56       17.8
COLOMBIA
1975            NA      NA       2.2      16.4        NA        118            39                8.0
1980           14.8     NA       1.9      14.3         10       128    75      44                10.6
1987-          11.9    12.9      2.7      22.4         14       122    73      56                13.6
ECUADOR
1975            NA       NA      3.2      25.9        NA        101     78     39       28       26.9
1980           19.8      NA      5.6      33.3         6        113            51                36.5
1987'          17.6    20.2      2.8      21.3         12       114            56                29.3
PARAGUAY
1975            NA      NA       1.6      14.0        NA        100    83       19      16       6.7
1980           12.5     NA       1.5      16.4         5        103    87      26                8.5
1987*          11.8    14.6      1.5      16.7         8        101    88       29      24       8.8
PERU
1975           27.5    38.2      3.5      17.5        NA        113            46                14.6
1980           18.1    26.1      3.2      12.8         25       114    86      59                19.4
1987-          13.0    20.1      2.4      16.4         29       118    87      64                25.5
URUGUAY
1975            6.1      NA      2.2      10.0        NA        107            60                16.0
1980            NA       NA      2.6       9.3         26       106             60               17.3
1987-           4.6     4.1      3.1      15.1         23       109    91      77                47.8
VENEZUELA
1975            NA       NA      4.5       NA         NA        100    81       45      35       18.1
1980            15.3     NA      4.4       14.7        32       109    86       41      34       21.4
1987-          13.1    14.5      3.5      16.6         37       110    89       54      44       26.5
Sources: UNESCO Statistical Yearbook. 1990; World Bank, Social Indicators Data Base
'I- 1987 or latoet
"I-l Enrollment an a percentage of children aged 3-5.



-60-                        Annex B
ANNEX B: ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE
OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
Organization
1.    The 24 Provincial Ministries of Education (PME) are the principal providers of
secondary education in Argentina. The PME's, accountable to each Provincial Governor,
control 61% of all secondary schools with enrollments totalling 1,550,824. PME's don't have
one organizational prototype, although, at the highest level they have a minister, secretary,
subsecretary and directors who are in charge of formulating and implementing provincial
educational policy. Besides overseeing the day-to-day administration of its schools, the
PME's have the following financial and provision responsibilities: (a) program supervision;
(b) planning and budgeting; (c) school maintenance and construction; (d) provision of
educational materials; (e) hiring and dismissal of teachers; and (c) teacher training.
2.   In turn, the National Ministry of Culture and Education (NMCE) does not have
schools under it's control following their transfer in 1992. NMCE's primary functions
comprise evaluating and monitoring the educational system, confirming the consistency and
quality of educational programs while ensuring adherence to national goals and policies,
providing financial and technical assistance to ensure quality education among the neediest
social groups, set requirements and conditions for recognizing national and international
degrees, and operate a federal management information system.
3.    NMCE's internal structure is divided into four main secretariats: (i) Operations and
Technical Affairs; (ii) Cultural Affair; (iii) Planning and Evaluation; and (iv) University
Affairs. Under the secretariats there are a total of nine subsecretariats. Chart B. 1 of this
Annex shows an organigram with NMCE offices which will be involved in implementing the
project.
4.    Coordination between NMCE and PME's is carried out by the Consejo Federal de
Cultura y Educaci6n (CFCE). The CFCE's functions and responsibilities were defined by the
Federal Education Law (1993). Among its most important functions is establishment of
national policies and programs to foster cultural and educational development, set priorities
for the sector, propose modifications to the legal framework regulating the sector's activities,
and establish the minimum contents of each educational cycle. The Minister of NMCE
presides over the CFCE.



Chart B. 1: Organizational Chart for the NMCE And The PMEs
FEDERAL LEVEL:
| President 
|Nabgonal Educafion                    Ministet                      Nabonal Hight"
& Cututme Counctl                                                  Education Council
|    Technical Secretarial   | |    CulLual Allatt  | |   Technical Secetaial|a  Uriversty Alairs
of Operabions                Secretanal                    of Piogramming and         Secielariat
_ Evaluation
Progiam  & Admin
Subsecretarial                   Nat Sludent
_Assessmnent
System
Oualily Evaluation
PROVINCIAL LELVEL:                                                   Subsecretarial
National
Inloimatton
Program Evaluatonetwo
Subsetetaluatio
Governor                               Sseoat
Minister
Sectetary
Shools
bI



-62-                           Annex B
Structure of the Education Sector
5.    In the pre-FEL education structure, pre-school education was only mandatory in some
provinces. Primary education consisted of a 7-year obligatory cycle that began at the age of
6. This was followed by a secondary cycle of five or six years, depending on the track
chosen by the student: the baccalaureate track emphasized a general broad-based education;
the commercial track, which had a professional orientation, lasted 5 years. The technical-
vocational track prepared students for immediate employment in the labor market through
studies in technical, agricultural, artistic, and other specializations lasted 6 years.
Additionally, postsecondary education was divided into three subsystems: both public and
private universities; research institutions; and non-university tertiary institutions. Table B. 1
below delineates the old and new educational structures.
Table B. 1
Pre and Post 1993 Educational Structures
Prior to Federal Education Law  Years    After Federal Education Law    Years
Pre-School                  Mandatory in  Pre-school                   1
some provinces
Primary Education               7        General Basic                9
Secondary                      5 or 6    Multimodal                   3
Higher or Tertiary             2 or 3    Higher or Tertiary          2 or 3
University                      5        University                   5
6.    The post-FEL educational structure represents a significant break with the old pattern.
Pre-school education will be compulsory for 1 year starting at age five, in addition to a new
9- year General Basic Education cycle, which would begin immediately after pre-school, at
age 6. After completion of General Education, students will enter secondary education
comprised of a multi-modal cycle with a duration of 3 years and a curricular content that
emphasizes integrated knowledge of four cluster areas (humanistic, social, scientific, and
technical).



Annex B
TABLE B.2: Ditribution of Flnancial, Techncl and Administrative
ResponsibiLities between the NMCE and PMEs
Tah|N 6e_ m.d AChird|                 Nuliomi MWbq  of Cui. ad               Natima lEboy Of C       r.dI  ?tobdal ?M,Ak  Pror to the                 Proyhom Aftw ab New Fadul
EbAatia Prbr to New FeduaFleU m   RIACE) AlMr thb Ne                       Nw Fed_rIA EbeAdu. law                      Notatio iAw
Edmee 1                           Fel Edoe_iA L1w
FP clg of Pecurrer Cos                Eipenditurm  pesnne mid bmie mpu          Mme prevoul fiuunca nabii           Fhacig of peel ad odur            Fmo    o   of sa tamuferd ooob
for n_timi achoob canq  e dh buk of      idcooh so luger reeive my      n     ucrat cos - provcl schoos   ph. provicl whoo. Amanm
mraeuocoms. While other Mm qneriic       &fcS. Lkeuet. private achob            mla the bu of provcal           dicraiom ot responsbiliy ova
oa  reciv _e emaked   baIes. Pvae        no hgerreceive my absidies.         aditurm, Which an                  to dh privte  cr.
school recuave hunkfa  so cavea           Speci Sram  ae urnferred to        aq nmied vs glob  atilm
per_qe of operatig cams Prvine           pova   to camplimt pvicial          tas. Prvat sdob reeve
eceeive bo,k grn  to over .am            trgtding of high-risk populatonm.   stabdies  in exceptional
recurut- I i provincia aoob.                                                 cr.uautmm.
Finascing of Capihl Co_               Fmom  coapl expeidktuab ma        4       Does na finn    pl    PFimc  caphel expendimares mh                   Fnes alU cpbl expendiait i 
_imsuir onictuoa mad reblhJon,  exp;Wcaudr directed towads                   - scoo  ehehilhtion and            tafaied shools p   provicia
md shol equqama an 1airem choole,        provincl ad-inid    acboob. In        s    auctm  md shool equimt    schools.
end s ains  intae provincibl sboob       s-cm m, rezmaked g         z will   in al provinil ahools.
trugh block grsnts.                      be trafemrd to complIma
_ _ __pinciav_.bnmw.
| Toblo md Adminisrativ
______ ____________
Cuumb Desin m.d Ce1mar_               Embishe usedanam |ahicu        g  Ecblibes afninrann co_aj   boed             PsAbliaes awrrim contct for       Apprves muanum conun  etblished
for all nm.l schoob md revwn tbeit       on policim defid by hc Cosmejo      all pvcial schob oad rview         by FMCE md develops supplnbay
prposed cwricaa                           Fedeal de Educacid.                their propoaN e   drrc|n provincial  rricuha mes           ve to
pwO| ce pacdiGc wat ad cosd   .
Reviews  shoob prpoad ouiul.
Tetbooka ad Educatimal hilr           Doe sot aoil the f6ncti  of approving the    Doe  vd approve the coui   or    Dow not boi the fAnction of       Does not bold tie fandu of   rvyng
| c     or sarda  of textbooks or         taad  of texlboo  or adl           appovug tde co   at sor |amd       die c_    or _adb  of teIbooks or
educatiomln=Mkdse .                      n        Mluawer"sls. Provid        of textb   or other iducatsl       odber edua l nAmtak. Provincas
texIbools anid other ddcic         m _.                               decide idivill wher to prvide
ewian an a  aonwAtorylamia to                                      kx6ooka mid onee  ths.o nal
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   province  mowe    ain ed.I



Annex B
T ad m. Ad sl_            .            Naloal Mlt& ry of Cubure nd            N-me.l Mtry of Cule, and            Proybdal !daliulin Prior to the       Proybsrs Aftb the Mw Federal
Edselm Prior to New Fedeal            Edmtiaim  NMCE) After do Now          New Fedel Edisead. lAw                      Educaths IAw
FAmesUm Law                        Federal .Ahe_mU  Iaw
Thining of Teachers                    Ofer tis    s            so an req_ig     Provides _ehical eme,                Tm. through it.b ta g              Develops o    provincial raig
miltwe through tie Cento Nal de           inqrpoem    oi ms d fidmmdi          ioinooi or tumgh Dirccione         progressi awolimg provicnsil or nsmi
Capechecider Doceaje. B     _fiaris cm be    resour  for al prvini            s differit levels.                  intiom while o  fonnuag pat of the
m.tamd or provucal beacho. md schools.    _iim  invohled a prviding                                               Red Fedzl de C.pciwidn.
cher  t-    thdrm4h the
Progru  de F      hoacidn y
Capacitsida Doce. Supvious
teadir activitiamestrough
the Rod Fedeal de Capac id         _ l
Hiring ad R_mesm          of Tebes     Hre  and payer  eaches w   g m ailosl   Does mt serve tbi funcbo               Hures md pys teachers workig ni    Hir  ed pay makries of a1 1tache,
schoo..                                                                       pmvicil scoola.                     mchig those n reuiy usferm d
.chooh.
Slet Aa                                COtiduc. mesreb s2 the a     Of program   Evabluae the educato syzd            Mmmm stdn achievm  (-)             Anlys reebs of provicl tudent
plusa    ad  eva o reh   tso _atimi       wor all proviwces through a                                             mmedm  m          od     poicies to
|    ool.                                 Na=ioa Studat Aecea                                                     mnprove fudure usll.
Progrm S v                             Sqervia  the pedagogicl aldvitie of al    L1pkt-fs special pogr  to            Supervies th pedagogical           Supervies the pedagogca actviies of
atiaus schoo. Oriewts policies bd on      gurne qualy educatin  wa those         v    of all prvinal schoob.      al pvincal scbool. Orient policies to
the remt of the  avun   exen              prov        or egio  thw sww poor    Or ia policies hed on the resut    inprove quality h_e  on the result. of
tomb, bhsed oa the N-;l             of the   evon exerce.              the  qApeavso eexacue   well 
Stu   Ai _maaat Sy en                                                  prvicil uct d esntm         da-
School MA6    cc md C         _oruci   Fmace md provides todhical _mace.         Only respek  for wors ben            Coors mid supervises school        Fm , p     md prvd  tckawa
Inspect., vifies md supervies school      prior to refonm.                     worko.              _nitce towwrs cons_tructiond
cons ton                                                                                                         rebsbilition of school.
AdIninv mid F_cial                     Provides tehnical  _ i to perttint        Prvides techial essice to            Does not provide any form of       Provides terhoicalsigce to
Awsaece                                prvinci inttutline.                       sdprovin_cialcb. t ical miatmi  to the                                  uahprovinci am_use.
Plu_i4g mid  dgaet                     Pl  budges md e,aditum for ae             Does na carry oat budgetig or        Pl  bhudgow md expedttue for    PhE budg  mid etpeidaures for .11
s l  scbook, a wel   special              expadlire phing for -y               all provincil scoos. - well        schools a well m other kbuin
*mased trafer to the provine.              ools, yet in qecial ca            other _inom  oautig uder            opersing p e the prvinc  minitri
p egrum the cemrked trder of        the pvicsl mintrie.
ftmu to the provin.
(*) Mendoza carries out these evaluations for primary and secondary education, while Rio Negro only does so for primary education. The remaking provinces
do not have a student assessmet system in place.



-65-                              Annex C
ANNEX C: SECONDARY EDUCATION ENROLLMENT
AND EMFICIENCY
Enrollments, Teachers and Schools
1.    Enrollments in the system as a whole have nearly doubled over the last twenty-one
years, with the largest increases in post-secondary education (Table C. 1). Primary education
has increased from 3,632,000 in 1970 to 5,866,701 in 1991, a 2.3% annual rate of growth
(Table C.2). Secondary education has increased from 975,000 to 2,160,410, a 3.8% annual
rate of growth. On the other hand, higher/non-university and university enrollments have
increased from 38,000 to 260,324 and 237,000 to 816,888 between 1970 and 1991, reflecting
9.2% and 5.9% annual growth, respectively (Table C.2).
2.    Primary education net enrollment has largely remained unchanged since 1980 when
approximately 90% of 6 to 12 year old children enrolled in school (Annex A). At the
secondary level, on the other hand, net enrollments have increased from 38% of the 13 to 18
year old population in 1980 to 56% in 1991 (Annex A).
3.    Secondary education enrollments consisted of 2,160,410 students in 1991 (Table C.3),
of which 41.4% were in the bachiller track, 33.6 % in the commercial track, 22.2% in the
technical track, 1.9% in the agrarian track, and 0.9 % in the artistic track. Enrollments in
the seven provinces forming part of this project, Cordoba, La Pampa, Mendoza, Misiones,
Neuquen, Rio Negro, and Santa Fe, amount to 523,699, or 24% of the national total. The
project province with the highest secondary enrollments is Santa Fe with 168,609 students.
This contrasts with La Pampa, the project province with the smallest number, 17,839
students (Table C.4). The project provinces also possess 48,954 or 17% of all the country's
secondary teachers and 2,100 schools, or 33% of all the country's secondary schools (Tables
CA).
4.    With regard to teachers, they totaled 728,384 in the system as a whole with roughly
90% (638,775) teaching at the pre-university level. Secondary education teachers totaled
283,583 (Table C.2). Among the project provinces, the number of teachers ranged from
14,773 in Santa Fe to 2,101 in La Pampa (Table C.4).
Private Sub-System
5.    The private sector in Argentina, comprising 22% of all pre-university enrollments in
1991 (Table C.3), is large compared to other Latin American countries where the average is
around 15%. At the secondary level, private enrollments are even higher reaching 28% of
the total. The large size of this sub-sector prior to the Federal Education Law may have been
explained by the large subsidies it received from the national government for some recurrent
costs (such as teachers salaries).



-66-                                    Annex C
Table C.1: Evolution of Enrollments
by Educational Level, Selected Years
Enrollment
Year      Primry    Secondary   Higher/Non-  University   Total
University
1970      3,632,000   975,000    38,000       237,000     4,882,000
1980      4,111,000   1,327,000   94,000      398,000     5,930,000
1991      5,866,701   2,160,410   260,324     816,888     9,104,323
Souce: National and Provincial Data, 1991
Table C.2: Average Annual Enrollment Growth Rate, In Percent
1970-1980   1980-1991    1970-1991
Primay                    1.2         3.2          2.3
Secondary                3.1          4.4          3.8
Higher/Non-Univrsity     9.1          9.3          9.2
University               5.1          6.5          5.9
Total                    1.9          3.9          3.0
Source: National and Provincial Data, 1991



Table C.3: Enrollment, Teachers, and School in the
Public and Private Systems, 1991
Enrollment                             Teachers                         Schools
Level                      Public     Private   %        Total    Public   Private   %      Total   Public   Private   %    Total
Pre-School                630,832    283,854  31       914,686    33,851    14,969  31    48,820    6,907    2,786   29   9,683
Prinmry                 4,795,245   1,071,456   18    5,866,701   253,911    52,461   17   306,372   21,791    2,720   11  24,511
Secondary               1,550,824    609,586  28    2,160,410   206,782    76,801   27   283,583    3,995    2,516   39   6,511
Sub-Total               6,976,451   1,964,896  22    8,941,797   494,544   144,230  23   638,775   32,693    8,022   20  40,705
Higher/Non-University     185,969     74,355  29       260,324    26,116    14,293  35    40,409      749      460  38   1,209
University                731,768     85,120  10       816,888    34,900    14,300  29    49,200       33       29   47      62
Sub-Total                 917,737    159,475  14    1,077,212    61,016    28,593   32    89,609      782      489  38   1,271
Total                   7,894,638   2,124,371   21   10,019,009   555,560   172,824   24   728,384   33,475    8,511   20  41,986
Source: Federal and Provincial Data, 1991.



Table C.4: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
in the Project Provinces (1991)
Enrollments                                    Teachers                                     Schools
Inpact of                                       Impact of                                              Impact of
Provinces Provincial  Trsferred Decentalization  Total Provincial  Transferred  Decentalization  Total   Provincial    Tsnsferned   Decentalization    Total
Cordoba     65,539      39,559     1.37        155,098     6,175       6,514      1.05         12,689         363            340       0.94           703
La Pana    5,864        11,970     2.00         17,839      740        1,361      1.84         2,101           41             56       1.37            97
Mendoza    26,587       39,123     1.47         65,710    *2,406         ...                   2,406           77            123       1.60           200
Misionca    23,056      23,137     1.01         46,243     4,343       3,665     0.U4          8,008           91             74       0.81           165
Neuquen    22,029       8,463      0.38         30,492     1,919       1,013     0.53          2,932           74             21       0.28            95
Rio         33,690      6,023      0.18         39,713     5,061         984     0.19          6,045           118            27       0.23           145         O
Negro                                                                                                                                                            0
Santa Fc    76,608     92,001      0.00        168,609     6,673       8,100      1.21        14,773          447            248       0.55           695
Total      253,373     270,326     0.96        523,699    27,317      21,637      0.79        48,954         1,211           889       0.73         2,100
(34%)                                       (17%)                                                  (32%)
National                                     2,160,410                                       2S3,5S3
Total
Source: Federal and Provincial Data, 1991.
Provincial (30 teacher hrs.). No information on the number of teachers transferred.
Note: Parnthesis indicate perentage of national total



-69-                                              Annex C
Table C.5: Average Number of Secondary Students
Per Teacher
Province        Students/Teacher
Cordoba                   12.22
La Pampa                  8.38
Mendoza                   10.20
Misiones                  10.70
Neuquen                   8.76
Rio Negro                 9.66
Santa Fe                  6.38
Source: National and Provincial Data, 1991.
Table C.6: Average Drop-Out Rates in Secondary Education
Province                   Cohort           Drop Out
Cordoba                    86/90              55%
La Pampa                   88/92              41%
Mendoza                     NA                 NA
Misiones                   88/92              46%
Neuquen                    89/91              56%
Rio Negro                  88/91              65%
Source: National and Provincial Data, 1991.
Table C.7: Average Rates of Transition from Primary
to Secondary Education
Province              Rate of Transition      Year
Cordoba                     NA                NA
La Pampa                    84%               1992
Mendoza                     70%               1991
Misiones                   90%                1992
Neuquen                     NA                 NA
Rio Negro                  72%                1992
Santa Fe                    NA                 NA
Source: National and Provincial Data, 1991.



-70-                                               Annex C
Table C.8: Average Repetition Rates
Average
Repetition
Province                    Year               Rate
Cordoba                     1991               9%
La Pampa                    NA                 NA
Mendoza                     1991               13%
Misiones                    1991               12%
Neuquen                     1991               13%
Rio Negro                   1992               17%
Santa Fe                    NA                 NA
Source: National and Provincial Data, 1991.
Table C.9: Average Completion Rates, 1991
Secondary Education Enrollments/Total
Province                          Enrollments
Cordoba                              50%
La Pampa                             40%
Mendoza                              80%
Misiones                             35%
Neuquen                              50%
Rio Negro                            NA
Santa Fe                             NA
Source: National and Provincial Data, 1991.



-71-                                            Annex C
Table C.10: Percentage of Secondary Enrollments on Total Enrollments
Secondary Education Enrollments/Total
Province                       Enrollments
Cordoba                            19%
La Pampa                           26%
Mendoza                            20%
Misiones                           20%
Neuquen                            23%
Rio Negro                          26%
Santa Fe                           20%
Nacional                           22%
Source: National and Provincial Data, 1991.



-72-                                     Annex D
ANNEX D:
PART I: EDUCATION, SECTOR BUDGET, FINANCING, AND EXPENDITURES
Table D.1
Public Expenditure on Education, 1991-94
by Source of Spending
In millions of current pesos and as percent of GDP
Year   Total Public Expend.    Federal Government   Provincial Government   Municipal Govermment
Amount   % of GDP   Amount   % of GD    Amun    % of GDP    Amount   % of GD
1991     5674        3.14      1729         0.96     3802         2.10        143         0.08
1992     7064        3.12      1235         0.54     5660         2.50        169         0.07
1993     8288        3.22      1681         0.65     6357         2.47        250         0.10
1994    10028        3.51      1995         0.70     7648         2.68        385         0.13
Notes:  Expenditure figures for 1993 were estimated at the time the study was performed; 1994 figures projected.
Percentages may not add to total because of rounding.
Source: Internal studies of the Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services
Secretariat of Economic Programming
Table D.2
Public Expenditure on Education
by Level of Education: 1992
In millions of 1992 pesos and as percent of GDP
Education Level   Total Public Expenditure   Federal Government   Provincial Government  Municipal Govermment
Amount             96      Amount                  Amount         .-   Amount 
Primary           4001           1.77          14         0.01       3818       1.68        169        0.07
Secondary          1848           0.82         134         0.06       1714       0.76         0        0.00
Higher Ed.         1215           0.54        1087         0.48        128       0.06         0         0.00
TOTAL            7064           3.12        1235         0.54      5660        2.50       169         0.07
Source: Internal studies of the Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services
Secretariat of Economic Programming.



-73-                                     Annex D
Table D.3
Composition of Total Education Expenditure, All Jurisdictions, by Level: 1991-94
In millions of current pesos and as percent
Total Public Education
Year        Expenditure        Primary Education    Secondary Education    Higher Education
Amount   % of total  Amount  % of total    Amount% of totl  Amount   % of tota
1991      5674          100      3213      56.63       1529       26.95      932        16.43
1992      7064          100      4001      56.64       1848       26.16      1215       17.20
1993      8288          100      4552      54.92       2064       24.90      1672       20.17
1994      10028         100      5485      54.70       2520       25.13     2023        20.17
Notes:  Expenditure figures for 1993 were estimated at the time the study was performed; 1994 figures projected.
Source:  Internal studies of the Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services
Secretariat of Economic Programming



-74-                                     Annex D
Chart D.1
Composition of Expenditure on Social Services by National Administration
1994 Budget
H       F ED
A~~~~~
B~~~~
Function                      Mill. Pesos          Percentage
A. Health                                       1,037.9                4.05
B. Social Assistance and Promotion              1,174.2                4.58
C. Social Security                             19,040.9               74.22
D. Education and Culture'                       2,444.0                9.53
E. Science and Technology                         561.0                2.19
F.  Labor                                          79.7                0.31
G. Housing                                      1,177.5                4.59
H. Water and Sewerage                             140.2                0.55
TOTAL                                      25,655.4              100.00
1 Includes Ministry of Culture and Education (2,050.8 million pesos), Education spending by Ministry of
Defense (22 million pesos), on public libraries (20 million pesos) and the National Institute of Public
Administration (7 million pesos).
Source: Proyecto de Ley de Presupuesto General de Gastos y Calculo de Recursos de la Administraci6n
Nacional, Mensaje, 1994, Buenos Aires, Argentina.



-75-                                        Annex D
Chart D.2
Composition of Expenditure by National Administration
1994 Budget
A.                        E.
C.
Billion of
Pewos            Percent
A. Governimental Administration              3.9               9.6
B. Defense & Security Svcs.                  3.6               9.0
C. Social Services                         25.7               64.2
of which education                       2.4                6.1
D. Economic                                  3.8                9.4
E. Interest on public debt                   3.1               7.8
TOTAL                                    39.9             100.0
Source: Proyecto de Ley de Presupuesto General de Gastos y Calculo de Recursos de in
Administraci6n Nacional, Mensaje, 1994, Buenos Aires, Argentina.



-76-                                        Annex D
Table D.4
Education as Percent of Total Public Spending*
In Seven Provinces: 1984-93
(Percents)
1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993
Cordoba         33.20    31.44    29.77    31.95    30.14    28.80    32.58      29.01    30.73    28.57 (a)
La Pampa         17.00    14.00    14.00    18.00    18.00    17.00    20.00     19.00    22.00    23.00 (a)
Mendoza         22.74    21.29    21.15    17.27    16.83    18.62    19.81      22.33    23.82    28.75
Misioncs        22.70    26.40    23.50    20.80    23.20    27.90    25.40      22.60    26.50    23.00 (b)
Neuquen          18.14    22.69    15.77    16.48    17.68    19.79    18.20     19.55    22.92    20.83
Rio Negro       30.15    26.60    20.10    20.00    20.00    29.50    24.10      27.50    26.50    24.70 (a)
Santa Fe         19.68    18.29    16.71    17.54    17.07    14.67    16.93     17.40    19.19    n.a.
n.a.: Information not available
(a):  Budgetary expenditure
(b):  Executed a of 31 Oct., 1993
(*):  Executed expcnditures.
Source: Compiled by the Project Preparation Unit from data provided by the provinces.



-77-                                  Annex D
Table D.5
Private Education Subsidy
(In Millions of A$ and in percentages, Year 1991)
Jurisdictions   Provincial       National         TOTAL
Budget
ederal  ital        -        -   59.74   22.93   59.74    11.23
Buenos Aires    113.59   41.84   79.81   30.63  193.40    36.35
Catamara            -       -    1.26    0.48    1.26      0.24
Cordoba          46.07   16.97   31.00   11.90   77.07    14.49
Corrientes          -       -    2.58    0.99    2.58      0.49
Chaco               -       -    4.99    1.92    4.99      0.94
Chubut              -       -    3.65    1.40    3.65      0.69
Entre Rios       14.91    5.49    7.86    3.02   22.77     4.28
Formosa           2.22    0.82    1.90    0.73    4.13     0.78
Jujuy                -       -    1.43    0.55    1.43     0.27
LA Pampa          0.40    0.15    3.34    1.28    3.73     0.70
La Rioja            -        -    1.05    0.40    1.05     0.20
Mendoza           8.44    3.11    8.16    3.13   16.60     3.12
Misiones          2.86    1.05    5.50    2.11    8.36     1.57
Neuquen           4.95    1.82    0.54    0.21    5.48     1.03
Rio Negro         2.30    0.85    3.37    1.29    5.67     1.07
Salta             2.02    0.75    4.12    1.58    6.14     1.15
San Juan          5.04    1.86    2.14    0.82    7.18     1.35
San Luis          1.96    0.72    1.32    0.51    3.28     0.62
Santa Cruz        4.57    1.68    0.85    0.33    5.42     1.02
Santa Fe         56.63   20.86   21.41    8.22   78.04    14.67
Sgo. del Edteo      -       -    3.16    1.21    3.16      0.59
Tucuman           5.55    2.04   10.38    3.98   15.92     2.99
Tierra del Fuego    -        -    0.98    0.37    0.98     0.18
Total           271.51     100  260.54     100  532.05      100
Source: Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Service, Socretariat of Progrnuming.



-78-                                      Annex D
Table D.6
Private Expenditures on Education by Jurisdiction, 1991'
(In Millions of Current AS year 1991)
JURISDICTIONS                 TOTAL
Capital Federal                383.36
Buenos Aires                   407.03
Catamarca                        3.99
Cordoba                        103.73
Corrientes                      13.17
Chaco                            7.87
Chubut                           6.12
Entre Rios                      30.65
Formosa                          4.42
Jujuy                            6.11
La Pampa                         4.85
La Rioja                         2.31
Mendoza                         37.03
Misiones                        16.19
Neuquen                          4.37
Rio Negro                        6.43
Salta                           19.21
San Juan                         9.62
San Luis                         5.16
Santa Cruz                       4.22
Santa Fe                        92.56
Sgo. del Estero                 11.24
Tucuman                         40.23
Tierra del Fuego                 0.99
Total                         1220.86
a/ Excludes Subsidies
Source: Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services,
Secretariat of Economic Programming.



-79-                                      Annex D
Table D.7
Sources and Uses of the Education Sector Budget, Year 1991
(As percentage of GDP)
USES                                      EDUCATION SECTOR                                 TOTALS
SOURCES             National    Provincial   Municipal               Sub-tot    Sub-total
Establihments  Establishments  Establishunen    Cooperatives  Public    Private
National Treasury      0.81         0.02                                0.83      0.15        0.98
Provicial                           1.95                                1.95      0.14        2.09
Treasury
Municipal                                        0.08                   0.08                   0.08
Treauries
Conrolidated           0.81         1.97         0.08                   2.86      0.29         3.15
Family                                                        0.06      0.06      0.67         0.73
Total                  0.81         1.97         0.08         0.06      2.91      0.97         3.U
Source: Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services, Secretariat of Programming.
Table D.8
Personnel as Share of Total Education*
Sector Spending in Seven Provinces, 1984-93
(Percents)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990          1991    1992    1993
Cordoba     75.02   73.96   75.02   76.61   74.02   75.90   75.31         75.58   72.83   70.56 (a)
La Pampa   86.23    82.01    80.08    82.86   82.62   83.13    82.60      79.35    80.30   82.50 (a)
Mendoza    90.49   92.29   94.21    93.59    87.78   78.71    83.99       89.40   87.56   82.20
Misiones    90.60   89.50   88.70   89.80   90.50   91.90   87.60         87.90   80.20   73.60 (b)
Neuquen    84.59   69.83   76.92   76.12   79.52   79.18   69.76          83.24   86.19   84.87
Rio Negro  81.54   86.95    85.66    86.22   84.84   71.30   86.14        83.64   85.76   84.19 (a)
Santa Fe    80.23    80.81   78.38   77.8 5   76.80   73.81   71.59       75.33   76.70   73.44 (a)
n.a.:  Information not available
(a):   Programmed expenditure
(b):   Actually expended as of 31 October, 1993
*:    Executed expenditures
Source: Compiled by the Project Preparation Unit from data provided by the provinces



-80-                                   Annex D
Table D.9
Transfer of Educational Services, Year 1992
(in Thousands of Pesos)
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
PROVINCES             Personnel    Other      Total
Buenos Aires           252,806    16,272   269,078
Catamarca                8,247     3,358     11,605
Cordoba                 58,572     9,029     67,601
Corrientes              12,597     6,904     19,501
Chaco                   11,818       683     12,501
Chubut                  17,208     2,387     19,595
Entre Rios              29,935     7,471     37,406
Formosa                  7,273       718      7,991
Jujuy                   14,520     2,385     16,905
La Pampa                 8,902                8,902
La Rioja                10,675     1,831     12,506
Mendoza                 30,208     2,701     32,909
Misiones                13,117     1,084     14,201
Neuquen                  6,208       897      7,105
Rio Negro                6,909       187      7,096
Salta                   17,312     3,187    20,499
San Juan                16,857       948     17,805
San Luis                 8,727     5,469     14,196
Santa Cruz               3,987       414      4,401
Santa Fe                60,053     6,650    66,703
Santiago del Estero     12,727     1,473     14,200
Tucuman                 24,740     3,766    28,506
Subtotal               633,398    77,814    711,212
National Capital       173,534              173,534
Tierra del Fuego         5,336                5,336
Total                  812,268    77,814    890,082
Source: Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services,
Se-i. a.   -r @f, rin'1r



-81-                                    Annex D
Table D.10
National Administration
Composition of Budgetary Expenditure by hstitution
In Millions of Pesos
DIFFERENCE
INSTITUTION                        1993         1994
AMOUNT   %
National Congress                                420.4        427.6             7,211.9     1.7
Judiciary                                        555.2        708.0              152.8    27.5
Presidency                                      1,659.0      1,516.9            -142.1    -8.6
Ministry of the Interior                        1,995.5      2,049.8              54.2     2.7
Ministry of External Affairs                     412.4        361.3               -51.1   -12.4
Ministry of Justice                              280.6        320.5               39.9    14.2
Ministry of Defense                             4,115.3      4,705.8             590.4    14.3
Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services  3,090.3      3,244.2             153.9     5.0
Ministry of Culture and Education               1,716.2      2,050.8             334.6    19.5
Ministry of Labor and Social Security          16,937.0     17,025.3              88.3     0.5
Ministry of Health and social Action             957.3        965.7                 8.3     0.9
Servicing of Public Debt                        3,245.6      2,939.7             -305.9    -9.4
Obligations under Treasury                      4,600.5      3,665.0            -935.3   -20.3
Total                                          39,985.5     39,980.7              -4.7     0.0
Source: Proyecto de Ley de Presupuesto General de Gastos y Calculo de Recursos
de Administraci6n National, Mensaje, 1994, Buenos Aires, Argentina.



-82-                              Annex D
ANNEX D, PART I: ESTIMATES OF BENEFfIS ARISING FROM THE PROJECT
1.   In addition to the investment costs that will be financed by the project, there will be
incremental operating costs that will continue after the project is completed, such as the costs
of evaluation systems, continuing expenditures on teaching materials, expenditures for
maintenance of physical infrastructure, and so on. On the other hand the project is expected
to produce savings and benefits. The readily-quantifiable, monetary benefits the project can
be expected to produce fall into four categories:
(a)   Savings from reduced repetition: If improved educational quality makes it
possible for students to learn as much or more without repeating, fewer
student places will be needed to accommodate the same number of entering
students and to produce the same number of secondary school completers.
(b)   Economic benefits as more students complete the secondary cycle: Whereas
many students drop out of secondary school without completing the cycle,
improved quality is expected to result in more of each cohort completing their
secondary schooling. The incremental earnings of completers versus non-
completers, for those students who otherwise would have dropped out,
constitutes an economic benefit in standard cost-benefit terms.
(c)   Savings from improved staff:student ratios; greater productivity: Reductions
in excess staff and reasonable increases in student:teacher ratios will reduce
personnel costs.
(d)   Savings from improved efficiency of administrative operations: Improvements
in administrative operations will make it possible to reduce some
administrative costs.
2.    Available data permit only general estimates of some of the benefits that would accrue
to the seven provinces. The following paragraphs present approximations of potential
benefits based upon reasonable or even conservative assumptions.
3.    With regard to repetition, only four of the seven provinces have repetition data in
usable form: Cordoba (9%), Mendoza (13.9%), Neuquen (12.4%) and Rio Negro (17%)
(Annex Table C.8 and data compiled by the Project Preparation Unit). If total secondary
enrollment in the seven provinces was 523,700 in 1991 (calculated from Annex Table c.4),
and if a moderate-to-conservative estimate of 12 percent repetition is used, this implies that
62,800 student places were occupied by repeaters in 1991. Using an average cost of A$880
per secondary student per year, based on partial data from the provinces, this implies that
repetition now costs approximately A$55,300,000 per year. It would be unrealistic to
assume that the project's quality-improvement investments would eliminate repetition
completely. A reasonable estimate is that, once the quality reforms are in operation and have
had an effect on a full cohort of secondary students, repetition might be reduced by about
one-fourth, or from 12 percent to 9 percent per year. This would represent an aggregate
saving of A$13,800,000 per year in the seven provinces.



-83-                                Annex D
4.    Economic benefits that result from more students completing the secondary cycle
rather than dropping out are the additional earnings that these students receive, over and
above the earnings of those who do not complete. Average drop-out rates in the seven
provinces are distressingly high, ranging from 41 percent in La Pampa to 56 percent in
Neuquen and 65 percent in Rio Negro (Annex Table C.6). Students drop out for a number
of reasons, including social and economic pressures over which the education system has no
control. An important reason, however, is that low quality of education fails to enable
students to keep up and learn and eventually does not seem worthwhile. Inadequate data
make it very difficult to estimate the magnitude of the problem and the potential gains that
could be achieved if dropouts could be reduced. The following analysis represents a rough
but reasonable effort to quantify this category of benefits.
(a)   A Secondary school entering cohort, seven provinces          110,000
(b)   Dropouts (assume 50% during the cycle)                        55,000
(c)   Additional completers (15% of current dropouts)                8,250
(d)  Incremental earnings from completing secondary (per year)"'    A$ 300
(e)   Combined annual incremental earnings, one cohort (million)2'  A$2.48
5.    Student-teacher ratios in Argentina generally and in the seven provinces are very low in
comparison with other countries in the region. Ratios range from six or eight in Misiones and La
Pampa, respectively, to ten or twelve in Cordoba and Mendoza (Annex Table C.5). The causes of
inefficiency in this area include employment of teachers, paid from education budgets, in activities
outside the education sector (some teaching in institutions such as police academies and some in
non-teaching positions); non-observance of norms regarding class size; continued employment of
teachers who are on permanent medical disability leave; use of teaching staff for record-keeping,
counselling and disciplinary functions (preceptors); as well as problems that are difficult to
overcome, such as widely-dispersed rural schools serving very small student populations. The seven
provinces have indicated their commitment to improve efficiency in use of teaching staff and a
number have taken steps to eliminate some of the problems mentioned above. Management studies
will be carried out, as a condition of the loan, to determine ways of improving the utilization of
teaching and administrative staff. Data are not available to estimate the magnitudes of potential
savings on a truly empirical basis. The following simple calculations provide a very approximate
indicator of possible orders of magnitude (in millions of Argentine pesos).
Public expenditure on education, 1993, 7 provinces       A$2,269
Estimated salary budgets (80% of recurrent expenditure)  A$1,815
Potential savings if improvement = 1 %                   A$18.15
Potential savings if improvement = 2%                    A$36.30
Potential savings if improvement = 5%                    A$90.75
I/ There are few data on earings differences in Argentina and virtually none for the provinces included in the
proposed project. For this analysis we have used a conservative estimate of incremental earnings - $25.00 per
month - attributable to completing secondary education.
2/ Product of line C X line D



-84-                            Annex D
6.    Savings from more-efficient administrative operations will come about as a result of
reductions in staff made possible by better organization and management of PMEs, introduction of
computers that will reduce needs for clerks and record-keepers and, other savings. There is no
scientific basis on which to estimate the savings that will result from the project but the following
calculations indicate possible orders of magnitude. Total administrative expenditures in the PMEs of
the seven provinces are approximately 2.5 percent of public spending in the sector (based on data
from those provinces reporting), or 56.73 million pesos. It is reasonable to assume that savings of
between 5% and 10% of administrative expenditures (apart from the above-referenced improvements
in student-teacher ratios) would be feasible.
(a)   Savings of 5% of administrative expenditures    2.84 million
(b)  Savings of 10% of administrative expenditures    5.67 million
7.    The estimated savings and benefits presented above are monetary benefits; they do not take
into account the effects of one of the most important outcome of the project, which would be better
quality and improved learning for all students, not just those who would have repeated or dropped
out. Better-prepared school leavers would have higher employment rates and higher productivity,
but no attempt is made here to quantify this category of benefits. Neither is any attempt made to
estimate the benefits of institutional strengthening of the NMCE.
8.   If we consider moderate-to-conservative estimates of potential benefits from the above
analyses, they would imply potential annual benefits after the year 2000, once the project is in
operation and its effects can be felt, as follows (in millions of Argentine pesos):
(a)   Twenty five percent reduction in repetition rates  A$13.80
(b)  Incremental earnings from additional completers     2.48
(c)  Two percent improvement in student-teacher ratios  36.30
(d)  Five percent reduction in administrative costs   A $2.84
Conservative estimate of potential benefits     A$55.42
9.    At the level of the seven provinces, the project is expected to generate incremental costs of
A$7.6 million in 1999 and in the years that follow (text Table 4.3). Estimated net benefits, once
both the savings and the costs stabilize after the year 2000, would therefore be on the order of A$48
million per year. Using alternative rates of real interest, the following estimates of the present value
of the net benefits are obtained for the period 1995-20009:
Rate of       Net Present
Interest        Value
6%         A$227. 1 million
8%         A$186.3 million
10%        A$153.6 million
Note that these are estimates of a portion of the benefits that would accrue to the seven provinces.



-85-                                                   Annex E
ANNEX E: NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL
GOVERNMENT POLICY AND STRATEGY
Sectoral Issues/Problems. Government Policy, and Subproject Response
National Government
Poor Educational Quality/Low          Weak Institutiona Capacity
Efficiency
National Policy                         N.A                 To strengthen NMCEs capacity to
provide policy guidance and supervision
under a decentralized system.
Specific lasue                                              lack of essential information to guide
policy formulation, implementation, and
supervision.
Subproject Response                                         Development of a national management
information system to ensure that
relevant data and information are
available in a timely fashion and to
expedite the national level decision
making process by providing technical
assistance, training, information and
communications equipment, and
publications and dissemination activities.
Specific lse                          N.A.                 Lack of a system to measure educational
quality.
Subproject Response                                         Development of a national student
assessment system aimed at ensuring
appropriate supervision of students'
progress towards national education
goals, and permit formulation of
compensatory policies by financing
necessary hardware and peripheral
equipment, office furniture and
operational expenses, technical
asistance, training, training and per
diems, and publications and
disemination activities.
Specific Isue                          N.A.                 Weak financial and adminirative
capacity.
Subproject Response                                         Development of administrative and
financial capacity through provision of
resources for developing more efficient
budget and administrative procedures,
improving recording systems and
management of physical and personnel
resources, and training of personnel.



-86-                                                 Annex E
Poor Educatoea Quality/Low           Weak hWstioaa capacity
reM   cy
Specific Isue                         N.A.                Inadequate training in key management
skill.
Subproject Response                                       Training of adniniatrative profeaaionals
in educational management nd technical
issues to strengthen policy formulation
and implementation proceu in the
context of the decentrlization proceu
by: financing a local university to
develop, in liaison with a foreign
university, a Mater and Ph.D program
in Argentina; and, create a fund to
provide loans to selected candidates to
puraue Msters and Ph.D .tdies through
a program that would trengthen the
education departments of selected local
universities.
Specific Isue                         N.A.                Lack of information on the actual use
and efficiency of human, physical, and
financial resources within the education
sysem.
Subproject Response                                       Resources for ector eficiency studies
that will provide information on the
actual use of human, physical, and
financial resources and provide
recommendationa for improving their use
and efficiency. Technical assistance
would be provided for carrying out these
studies.
Specific Issue                        N.A.                Inadequate adminisrtive infrastructure.
Support rationalization and improvement
Subproject Response                                       of physical infrastducture in order to
improve efficiency in use of physical
space and improve the conditions of
offices which will erve critical functions
under new federal rol, by financing
studies, technical assistance, renxodeling,
and provision of furniture and office
equipment.



-87-                                                 Annex E
Sectoral Issues/Problems. Government Policy, and Subproject Response
Cordoba Proyince
Poor EdAima Quality/Low Fficeny                   Wak Inutkumm   Capacy
Cordoba Policy           Improw dme quawry of secondary educaton as    To bnprove MCE and DRAEr capaciy to deliver
exprued by increased stent karIng.         coss-effcve ecawdon wkier a deceraralizad,
modem and effdle nmanagement snwnu.
Specific ISO"            Lack of resources for innovations within the  Deficient orpnizational stuctr with lack of
chool which support school initiated activities   clear definition of functons and distribution of
aimed at rising student Ilerning.          responsibilities.
Subproject Response      Development of educational innovationA by   R"trucuoreoaniafional design and functions
provsion of school grau for chool initiated    through provision of tehnic  assisnce to
activities such as curriculum development,  deline teresponsibilities and functions of
development of teaching materials, training of    administrtive units and map out transfer of
teacher and directon nd other student      responsibilities to decentralized regional offices.
activities.                                Provision of trining, coda of fares ad
perdiems, provision of training materials and
incremental recurrent coda to analyze and carry
out restucturing proc.
Specific in"             Lack of information technologies progrm     Slow and inefficient norms sD
esulti  in low student learning,           administative procedures.
Suppost the development of an informAtion
Subproject Rpons         technologis program for students and teacher    Iprove norms nd organizational procedure
throuh the provision of information        through the analysi of existn  dminisstive
equipment (computer an software), trining    inefficiencies, eabocation of new operationAl
for students nd teachers on appropriate use of   manuals nd pocedures, and traning
PCc and software, trining mAterials, and   administraive of personnel on new effective
fldlowshipu/ traineeships.                 procedures. Resources for technical astnce,
tsining, trining mansus, operation manuals,
fares and per diems and incremental recurrent
cos would be financed to carry out the above
activities.
Specific Issue           Outdated and heterogeneous curricula varying    lAck of a human resource policy resulting in
from  chool to chool.                      excess staff.
Updating of curriculum through tudies that
Subpject R     _spow     take ock of curricula planed and taught in  Development of a clear and efficient human
shools, eminar, study tours, and technical    reource policy aimed at educing ove staffing
amsnce to fins tune provincial proposal.   and inCreasinSg sdent/teacher ratios. Resource
for technical assiance to trview exisin
procedures and practicies, a anle swvey of
stffig requiremewts and salay sledule,
training of staff on resouce mnagement,
disemination materials, perdiem  and trvel
expenses would be provided.



-88-                                                 Annex E
orw EdcAdosa Quaty/ILow Ffiency                   Wek Isd*utoaa Capiy
Specific Icsue                                                       Weak educational and fnncial (budget) plnning
capacity.
Subproject Response                                                  Develop educational and financial (budget)
capacity by establishing mote efficient budgt
and administtive procedures, improving
recording systeme and manuagment of physical
and personnel reources. Resources for technical
assistance, training, bres and perdiems, and
operttional/training msnuals would be provided.
Specific lesue                                                       lack of esewntial infonnation to guide policy
formulation, implementation, and supervision.
Support the development of a mnagement
Subproject Response                                                  information system to ensure that relevant data
and infornation are available in a timely fashion
and to expedite the provincial level decision
naking proces. Resources for equipment,
technical asistance, training and incremental
recurmnt expenses would be provided.
Specific Isuu                                                        Lack of a system to measure educational quality.
Support the development of a student aesument
Subprojeet Rponse                                                    system aimed at ensuring appropriate supervision
of students' progres towards national and
provincial education goIa, which provides
feedback on ways to improve instructional
practices at the school level, and which informs
policy decisions on effective use of shool
resources. Resources for design and
implementation of the sytem, technical
assistance, equipment, trining and incremental
operating cost would be provided.
Specific Ise                                                         Lack of adequate facilities for the operation of
sub-provincial administive offices.
Support conictrtion and equipping of regional
Subpreject Repose                                                    offices whose aim is to improve the
implementation, monitoring and evaluation
capacity at the loa level by financing civil
works, equipment and technical assistance.



-89-                                                  Annex E
Sectoral Issues/Problems, Government Policy, and Subproject Responses
La Pampa Province
Poor Educaional Quality/Low                Wek nstio    Capcity
Eflkiecy an Coverage
La Pampas' Policy        Improve the qwuiy of secondary educadon   To improvw LWPA & capacity so deliver
as expressed by increased student       cost-effecdve educadon wider a
karning. Also, improve coverage of the  decentralzed, modern and effcide
secondary aged populadon,.              managememn stvucosre.
Specific lsue             LAck of educational materials and       Deficient organizationd atmncture with lack
equipment.                              of clear definition of functions nd
distribution of responsibilities.
Subproject Response       Provision of key educational materials  Restructure organizational design and
needed to increae student learning such as   functions through provision of technical
computers and educational software as   assistance to delineate responsibilities and
well as basic laboratory equipment.     functions of admninistative units and map out
transfer of responsibilities to decentralized
regional offices. Provision of training, costs
of fares and perdiemn, provision of training
materis and incremental recurrent coda to
analyze and carry out reatmicturing process.
Specific Isue             Lack of resources for innovations within  Slow and inefficient norms and
the school which support school initiated  administrative procedure.
activities aimed at raising student learning.
Subproject Response       Development of educational innovations   Improve norms nd organizational
by provision of 45 school grants worth  procedures through the analysi of exiting
USS 3,500 for school initiated activities  administrtive inefficiencies, elaboration of
such as curriculum development,         new operationl mamials nd procedures,
development of teaching materials,       nd trmining administative of personnel on
training of teacher and directors and other   new effective procdurs. Reources for
Student activities,                     technical asiance, trining, trining
manuals, operation manuals, faes and per
diems and incremntal recurrent cost would
be financed to carry out th above activities.
Specific luwe             Lack of certification for many teachers  Lack of essential information to guide policy
which affects their remuneration and    formulation, implemientation, and
stability nd lack of teacher training which   supervision.
affectis their ability to teach effectively.
Subproject Response                                                Support the development of a mangement
Certification of teachers through provision   information system to ensure that relvant
of short courses, training materias,    data and information are availabl in a timely
fellowships and technical assistace as  fashion and to expedite the provincia level
well as teacher training through provision    decision making proces. Resources for
of training seminars, training macrials and    equipment, technical assince, taining an
feUowships,                             incrementl recurrent expenses would be
provided.



-90-                                                  Annex E
Poor Educationa QualityLow                 Weak Iutitutional Capacity
Effixiercy an Coverage
Specific Iaaue            Lack of information on succes of          Lack of a system to measure educational
implementing existing curriculsr reforms  quality.
aimed at improving student learning, as
well as students socio-economic
backgound and its impact on
achievement.
Subproject Response       Resources for technical assistance to carry    Support the development of a sudedo
out studies on the effects of curriculum  auessent rystem aimed at ensruing
reform*nd students ocio-economic         appropriate supervision of studen' progreu
background on student learning.          towards national and provincial education
goals, which provides feedback on ways to
improve instructional practice at the school
level, and which informs policy decisions on
effective use of school resources. Resources
for design and implementation of the system,
technical assistance, equipment, training and
incremental operating costs would be
provided.
Specific Isue             Deterioration of school infrsutructure and  Lack of adequate facilities for the operation
lack of basic classroom equipment        of sub-provincial administrative offices.
affecting teachers and studens
working/learnin conditions.
Subproject Response       Resources for civil works, technical      Support construction and equipping of
assistance, and equipment for            regional offices whose aim ia to improve the
rehabilitating schools and providing basic    implementation, mnonitoring and evaluation
chlroom equipment such as chairs and     capacity at the local level by finawcing civil
desks.                                   works, equipment and technical assidnce.
Specific Ise              Overcrowding of schools and lack of
chools in urban marginal and rral areas.
Resources for technical assistance and civil
Subproject Reponse        works aimed at consructing new schools
in urban marginal and rural area.



-91-                                                   Annex E
Sectoral Issues/Problems. Government Policy, and Subproject Response
Mendoza Province
Poor Educational Quality/Low        Weak Institutional Capacity
Efficiency and Coverage
Mendozas' Policy          Improve the quality of secondary    To improve the Ministry of
educadion as expressed by increased   Cuidre, Science and Technologies
snudent earning. Also, improve     capacity to deliver cost-effective
coverage of the secondary aged     education under a decentraized,
population.                        modem and efficient management
structure.
Specific Isuhe            Lack of training of human resources   Deficient organizational structure
in the appropriate use of educational   with lack of clear definition of
materials, pedagogical planning and    functions and distribution of
classroom management.              responsibilities.
Subproject Response       Development of a human resources    Restructure organizational design
training program that emphasizes   and functions through provision of
the appropriate use of textbooks,  technical assistance to delineate
school libraries and other materials,   responsibilities and functions of
pedagogical planning and classroom    administrative units and map out
management. Resources for training   transfer of respornibilities to
services, trmining materials,      decentralized regional offices.
technical asistance, cost of fares  Provision of training, coas of fares
and per diems and incrementatal    and perdiema, provision of training
costs would be provided,           materials and incremental recurrent
costS to analyze and carry out
restructuring proces.
Specific Issue            Lack of didactic materials and      Slow and inefficient norms and
equipment which are key for        adrninistrative procedures.
learning.
Subproject Response       Provision of didactic materials such    Improve norns and organizational
as textbooks for students individual    procedures through the analysis of
use, teacher guides for use with the    existing admninistrtive
textbooks provided, school libraries,  inefficiencies, elabortion of new
televisions and videorecorders.    operational manuals and
procedures, and training
administrative of personnel on new
effective procedures. Resources for
technical assistance, training,
trining manuals, opertion
manuals, fare and per diems and
incremental recurrent cosft would
be financed to carry out the above
activities.



-92-                                                  Annex E
Poor Edsa a Qualily/Low             Wek nsitutioa Capac:ty
Effiiency and Coverge
Specific ssue             Lack of promotion of acience and    Weak educational and financial
technology program to address low  (budget) planning capacity.
learning in these areas.
Subproject ReVqonse       Support for a Promotion of Science    Develop educationl and financial
and Technology Program whoe        (budget) capacity by establishing
main objective is to expose teachers   more efficient budget and
and students on the use of         administative procedures,
information technologies through   improving recording systems and
provision of information equipment    mianagment of physical and
such as computers, education       personnel reources. Resources for
software and other equipment as    technical asistance, training, fares
well as teacher training on their  and perdiems, nd
appropriate pedagogical use,       operational/training manuals would
be provided.
Specific Ltiue            Weak Compensatory Program for       Lack of a human resource policy
Adult Secondary Education,         resulting in exces staf.
Subproject Response       Provide resources to strengthen the    Development of a clear and
Compensatory Program for Adult     efficient human resource policy
Secondary Education, pecifically,  aimed at reducing over staffing and
setr of didactic materials such as  increasing tudent/teacher ratios.
mathematical tables, basic chemistry   Resources for technica assistace
and phyics labortatories, sets of five   to review existing procedures an
textbooks per student, and teacher  practicies, a sample urvey of
training on the appropriate use of  staffing requirements and saary
the above materiials               schedules, training of staff on
resouce management,
dissemination materials, perdiema
and travel expenses would be
provided.
Specific Isu              LAck of a program to improve        LAck of esential information to
quality among lowest achieving     guide policy formulation,
population.                        implementation, and supervision.
Subproect Response        Support for Improvement of Student   Suppor the development of a
Achievement Program which will     managment information system to
provide resources such as textbooks   ensure that relevant dat and
for students individual use, sets of  information are available in a
didactic materiala, and counseling  timely fashion and to expedite the
services to lowest achieving       provincial level decision making
population.                        process. Resources for equipment,
technical assiatance, training and
incremental recurmnt expenses
would be provided.



-93-                                                  Annex E
Poor Educaion  Quality/Low         Wek instituioa Capaity
Edficincy and Coverage
Specific Isue             LAck of information on the impact  Lack of a system to measure
of past curricular reforms nd the  educational quality.
feasibility of proposed reforns.
Subpr<ect Response        Studies aimed at taking stock of the    Support the development of a
different curricula being taught, and   student assessment system aimed at
a feasibility analibis of reconverting    ensuring appropriate supervision of
these programs to short coures     students' progres towards national
within the polimodal system which  and provincial education goals,
would be closely linked to the     which provides feedback on ways
private ector.                    to improve instructional practice.
at the school level, and which
informs policy decisions on
effective use of school resources.
Resources for design and
implementation of the system,
technical assistance, equipment,
training and incremental operating
costs would be provided.
Specific Issue            Overcrowding of schools and lack
of schools in urban marginal and
rural areas.
Subproject Reeponse       Resources for technical asaistance
and civil works aimed at
constructinS new schools in urban
marwinl nd mr l areas.



-94-                                                  Annex E
Sectoral Issues/Problems. Government Policy, and Subproject Response
Misiones Province
Weak Institutional Capacity        Poor Educatioal Quality/LoUw
Efficiency and Coverage
Misiones' Policy          To improve the Ministry of Educations'   Improve the quality of secondary
capacity to deliver cost-effective     education as expressed by
education under a decentralized,       increased student karning. Also,
modem and efficient management         improve coverage of the
structure.                             secondary aged population.
Specific Iuue             Inneficient organizational structure with    Lack of euential learning inputs,
lack of clear definition of functions and    such as textbooks, school libraries
distribution of responsibilities,      and supplementary materials,
which are key for learning.
Subproject Response       Restructure and improve organizational    Support provision of key learning
design and functions through provision    materials by financing textbooks,
of technical assistance to delineate  school libraries and other
responsibilities and functions of      supplementary learning materials.
administrative units and map out
transfer of responsibilities to
decentralized regional offices. Provision
of training, costs of fares and perdiems,
provision of training materials and
incremental recurrent costs to analyze
and carry out restructuring procss.
Specific I"ue             Slow and inefficient norms and         LAck of teacher training in the
administrative procedures.             appropriate use of educational
naterials, pedagogical planning
and clauroom management.
Subproject Response       Improve norms and organizational       Development of a teacher training
procedures through the analysis of     program that emphasizes the
existing administrative inefficiencies,  appropriate use of textbooks,
elaboration of new operational manuals   school libraries and other
and procedures, and training           materials, pedagogical planning
administrtive of personnel on new      and classroom management.
effective procedures. Resources for    Resources for tr ining services,
technical assistance, training, training  training materials, technical
manuals, operation manuals, fares and  asistance, cost of fares and per
per diema and incremental recurrent    diemu and incrementatal cost
cost would be financed to carry out the   would be provided.
above activities.



-95-                                                Annex E
Week Itituonal Capacity          Poor FdAIoa  l Quality/Low
Effiecmy sd Coverage
Misions' Policy          To Improve the MWnsy of Educadons'   Improve the qualiry of secondary
capadty so dediver cos-effectdve     educadon as erpressed by
educadon under a decentralzed,      increased ssudemleaming. Alo,
modemn and edlclena management       lnprove coverage of she
stacnw.                              secondary aged populadon.
Specific 1a3             Weak educational and financial (budget)   Weak open nd distance chool
planing capacity.                    program which inadequately
addreses the needs of the
secondary drop-out population.
Subproject Response      Develop educational and financial    Strengthening of exising open
(budget) capacity by esablishing more    and distance chool programs
efficient budget and adminiative    through reorganization to improve
procedures, improving recording      articulation with regular
sytems and management of physical    secondary school and upgrading
and personnel resources. Resources for   of educationAl sasiants and
technicl asgiste, training, fares and    didactic materials. Resources for
perdiemca, and operational/training  technical assistance, training,
manuals would be provided,          trining manuals and didactic
materials would be provided.
Specific us"e            Lack of esential infomation to guide  Outdated and heterogeneous
policy formulation, implementation, and   curricula varying from school to
supervision,                         school.
Subproject Response      Support the development of a         Updating of curriculum dutough
management information system to     studies that take stock of curricula
ensure that relevant data and        planned and taught in schools,
information are available in a timely  seminca, study toura, and
fashion and to expedite the provincial    technical assistance to fine tune
level decision nmking process.       provincial propoal.
Resources for equipment, technical
asistance, training and incrementl
recurrent expenses would be provided
Specific bsue            Lack of a system to measure          Deterioration of school
educational quality.                 infrastucture and lack of basic
classroom equipment affecting
teachers and students
working/learning conditions.
Subproject Response      Support the development of a student  Resurces for civil works,
aeument system aimed at ensuring    technical assistance, and
appropriate supervision of students'  equipment for rehabilitating
progress towards national and        schoola and providing basic
provincial education goals, which    clasuroom equipment such as
provides feedback on ways to improve    chairs and deks.
instructional practices at the school
levl, and which infornu policy
decisions on effective use of school
resources. Resources for design and
implementation of the sysem, technical
assistance, equipment, training ad
incremental operating costs would be
provided.



-96-                                                 Annex E
Week Instueoa Capaity             Poor E    dona Quality/L&w
Effcmey and Coverge
Misiones' Policy         To tmprove A MbUdtnsy of Educadons'   Improve te quy of secondary
capacity to deiver cost-effccdve      educadon as expresed by
educadon under a decentraUized,      Iwcreased student kandng. Alo,
modemn and efficent managemen         imprv coverage of te
structure.                           secondary aged populaton.
Specific Isue            Lack of a preventative maintenance    Overcrowding of schools snd lack
program for school infratructure      of chools in urban marginal and
rural areas.
Subproject Response      Support for establishment of a        Resources for technical assistance
preventative maintenance program for  and civil works aimed at
schools by providing resources for   constmcting new schools in urban
training manuals, seminars, basic     marginal nd rural areas.
maintenance kits and technical
asistance.
Specific Issue           Lack of adequate facilities for the
operation of sub-provincial
administrative offices.
Subproject Response      Support constrction and equipping of
regional offices whose aim is to
improve the implementation, monitoring
and evaluation capecity at the local
level by finncing civil works,
equipment and technical assistance.



-97-                                                  Annex E
Sectoral Issues/Problems. Government Policy, and Subproject Reponse
Neuq.uen Province
Poor Edationa QulityLow             Weak 1nssima Capaiy
Eflriency and Coverage
Neuquens' Policy         Improve the quality of secondary    To improve she Minstry of Educations'
educadon as expressed by         capacity to deliver cost-effeidve
increased student karning. Also,    educadon under a decentralized,
improve coverage of the          modem and efficent management
secondary aged populadon.        stnucture.
Specific Issue            lack of in-service trining of    Inneficient organizational ttucture with
teachers, supervisorn and        tack of clear definition of functions and
directors in genemnl instruction  distribution of responsibiities.
methods, basic content aeas,
pedagogical supervision and
monitoring.
Subproject Response       Support in-service training of   Restuctue and improve organizational
teachers, supervisors and        design and functions through provision
directors in generl instruction  of technical assistnce to delineate
methods, basic content areas,   responsibilities and functions of
pedagogical supervision and      administrative unit and map out
monitoring by financing technical   tnsfer of tesponsibilities to
assistance, training seminars and    decentralized regional offices.
materials.                       Provision of taining, costs of fares nd
perdiems, provision of training
material and incrementl recurrent
costs to analyze and catry out
restructuring proces.
Specific usse             Outdated curriculum and          Slow and inefficient norms and
educational materials.           administrative procedues.
Subproject Response       Support the establishment of a   Improve norms and organizational
continual curriculum development   procedures through the analysis of
system and updating by providing   exiting administrative inefficiencies,
technical asistance. Modem       elaboration of new operatil manuals
pedagogical materials, such as   and procedures, and training
school libmries, would also be   administrtive of personal on new
provided to update mnaterials    effective procedurs. Reoures for
currently used by students.     technical assistance, taining, training
manuals, operation manuals, fe and
per diem  and incrementl tecurrent
costs would be financed to cay out
the above activities.



-98-                                                 Annex E
Poo Educatona QGaItylL0W            Wek Iutiona Capnity
Efficiewy ad Covea
Neuque' Policy           bIprow the quaUty of eco-dary    To Improve th Mitry ofJducadtl'
education aa exprewed by        capacty to defiver cosu-eeedvc
lncreased sundent kamndg. ALso,    edwadon under a decenUled,
biprow cowerage of              modem  and edfient mangeasm
seeondary aged popudadon.       sztnuw.
Specific Le 1Lck of modern information                    Centalized decision nmking which
equipment needed for fostering  hampers the ability to take initatives
modern, engaging educational    and propose adequate response at the
activities with students and which   local level. Weak mangement capacity
help to raise student learning.  at the local level, specificaily, within
local school councils and individual
schools.
Subproject Resxns        Esablishment of an educational   Support decentralization of decision
information program aimed at    making to the local evel- 
developing modem, interactive   strengthening of the mangement
pdagogical practices by         capacity of local chool councils nd
providing computers, educaitonal   schools by providing technical
software, and truining seminars  assistance, trining, and resources for
fares and per diem.
Specific h"ue            Overcrowding of chools and lsck   Lack of erntial information to guide
of schools in urban marginal and    policy formulation, implementation.
ara ares.                       and supervision.
Subproject R-ponse       Resources for technical asisnce   Support the development of a
and civil works aimd at         mangement information system to
conaucting nw schools in urban   ensure that relevant data and
maginal and ural area.          information are available in a timely
fasiion and to expedite the provincial
level decision making proces.
Resources for equipment, technical
asitnce, training and incremetal
recurrent expenses would be provided.
Specific bie                                              Lack of a ystem to measure
educationa quality.
Subpnvjct Response                                        Support the development of a sident
asemet system aimed at ensuing
appropriate mpervsion of tudents'
progres towards national and
provincial ducation goals, which
provides feedbck on ways to improve
insuctionl prctices at the school
level, and which inform policy
decisions on efiective use of school
resoures. Resoures for deegn and
implementation of the systn, techical
assistance, equipment, training and
incremental operting cost would be
provided.



-99-                                               Annex E
Poor Educational QualitylLow       Weak Institutional Capacity
Efficiency and Coverage
Neuquens' Policy        Improve the quaity of secondary    To improve the Ministy of Eucations'
education as expressed by      capacity to delver cot-effecdve
increased student tearning. Also,   educadion under a decentralized,
improve coverage of the        modem and efcfite management
secondary aged populadon.      stnraurc.
Specific Isue                                           Lack of consolidated centrl
administrative facilities resulting in
lack of coordination and duplication of
some functions.
Subproject Response                                     Construction of consolidated
adn inistrative headquarters ained at
correcting the above mentioned
problems and facilitating more timely
and efficient decision-rmking and
implenentation by financing civil
works and technical asistance.



-100-                                                  Annex E
Sectoral Issues/Problems. Government Policy, and Subproject Response
Rio Negro Province
Poor Educational Quality/Low        Weak Instituonl Capacity
Efficiency
Rio Negro.' Policy        Improve the quality of secondary   To improve zhe Ministry of Educatons'
education as expressed by       capacity to delver cost-effecdve
increased student karning. Also,   educaton under a decentralfized,
improve coverage of the         modem and efficient management
secondary aged population.      structure.
Specific Issue            Outdated curriculum and lack of   Overly centralized inatitutiona which
teacher training in the         hampers the ability of local actors to
appropriate use of educational  take initiatives and propoae responses at
mnaterials, pedagogical planning    the local level.
and classroom nanagement.
Subproject Response
Analysis of on-going curriculum    Execute a decentralized organizational
refonns and development of a     tructure through provision of technical
teacher training program that   aaaistance to delineate remponsibilities
emphasizes the appropriate use  and functions of adminisative units
of textbooks, school libraries  and map out transfer of responsibilities
and other materials, pedagogical   to decentralized regional offices.
planning and classroom          Provision of training, costs of fares and
mAnagement. Resources for       perdiemn, provision of training
training services, training     materials and incremental recurmnt
maiterials, technical assistance,  costs to analyze and carry out
costs of fares and per diems and   restructuring process.
incrementatal costs would be
provided.
Specific lsue             Lack of a program to foster and    Slow and inefficient norms and
strengthen reading and writing  administrative procedures.
skills and raise student learning
in these areas.
Subproject Response       Suppoit development of a         Improve noms and organizationsi
reading and writing school      procedures through the analysis of
progrmm that will appropriately    existin administrative inefficiencies,
train teachers in the use of    elaboration of new operationl manuals
textbooks provided by the       and procedures, and trining
project and strengthen their    administative of personnel on new
pedagogical planning and        effective procedures. Resources for
supervision kills. Technical    tehnical assistance, training, training
assisance, training seminars and   mainuals, operation rmanuals, fares and
incremental operating coats     per diem, and incrementl recurrent
would be provided,              coasu would be financed to carry out
the above activities.
Specific Isue             Deterioration of school          Weak educational and financial (budget)
infrastructure affecting teachers    planning capacity.
and students working/learning
conditions.



-101-                                                   Annex E
Poor Educatioal Quality/Low          Weak Institutional Capacity
Effiiency
Rio Negros' Policy        Improve she qualiy of secondary   To improve the Ministry of Educatons'
education as expressed by        capaciy to deliver cost-effecdve
increased student karning. Also,   educaton usder a decentralized,
improve coverage of dth         modem and efficient management
secondary aged population.       structure.
Subproject Response       Resources for civil works,        Develop educational and financial
technical assistance, and        (budget) capacity by establiahing more
equipment for rehabilitating     efficient budget and administative
schools and providing basic      procedures, improving recording
clauroom equipment such as      systems and mnanagement of physical
chairs and desks.                and personnel resources. Resources for
technical assistance, training, fares and
perdiems, and operational/training
manuals would be provided.
Specific Issue             Overcrowding of schools in       Lack of essential information to guide
urban mArginal and rural aras.    policy formulation, implementation,
and supervision and lack of a system to
measure educational quality.
Subproject Response       Resources for technical           Support the development of a
assisLance and civil works aimed    management information system to
at making additions to existing  ensure that relevant data nd
schools in urban mtarginal and  information are available in a timely
rurl areas.                      fashion and to expedite the provincial
level decision making process.
Resources for equipment, technical
assistance, training and incremental
recurrent expenses would be provided.
Furthermore, support the development
of a student ausessment system aimed at
ensuring appropriate supervision of
students' progress towards national and
provincial education goals, which
provides feedback on ways to imnprove
instructional practices at the school
level, and which informs policy
decisions on effective use of school
resources. Resources for design and
implementation of the sytem, technical
assisance, equipment, training and
incremental operating costa would be
provided.
Lack of consolidated central
Specific Issue                                              administrtive facilities resulting in lack
of coordination and duplication of some
functions.



-102-                                                Annex E
Poor Educational Quality/Low       Weak lastitutional Capacity
Efftiicy
Rio Negros' Policy      Improve the qualty of secondary   To improve the MInsUy of Educadons'
education as expressed by     capacity to deliver cost-effecdve
increased student karning. Also,  education under a decentralized,
improve coverage of th         modern and efficient management
secondary aged populadon.      structure.
Construction of consolidated
administLative headquarters aimed at
correcting the above mentioned
Subproject Response                                     problems and facilitating more tinmely
and efficient decision-naking and
implementation by financing civil
works and technical asuistance.
Specific Issue                                          Lack of adequate facilities for the
operation of sub-provincial
administrative offices.
Subproject Response                                     Suppon constuetion and equipping of
regional offices whose aim is to
inprove the imaplementation,
monitoring and evaluation capacity at
the local level by financing civil works,
equipment and technical ssistance.



-103-                                                  Annex E
Sectoral Issues/Problems, Government Policy, and Subproject Response
Santa Fe Province
Poor Educational Quality/Low        Weak Institutional Capacity
Efficiency
Santa Fes' Policy        Improve the quaUty of secondary    To improve the Ministry of Educadons'
educadon as expressed by        capacity to deliver cost-effecdve
increased student learning. Also,   educaton under a decentralized,
bnprove coverage of the         modem and efflcient management
secondary aged population.      structure.
Specific Iue              Lack of learning materials and  Overly centralized institutions which
equipment eAential for the      hampers the ability of local actors to
learning process and raising    take initiatives and propose responses
student achievement,            at the local level.
Subproject Response       Support provision of key         Execute a decentralized organizational
education materials by financing    structure through provision of technical
textbooks, school libraries, and  assistance to delineate responsibilities
other supplementary didactic    and functions of administative units
mnaterials,                     and map out transfer of responsibilities
to decentralized regional offices.
Provision of training, costs of fares
and perdiems, provision of tr ining
materials and increnental recurrent
costs to analyze and carry out
restructuring proceu.
Specific luue             Lack of training for human       Slow and inefficient norms and
resources in the appropriate use  administrative procedures.
of educational materials,
pedagogical planning and
clasroom management.
Subproject Response       Development of a teacher        Improve norms and organizational
training pogram that emphasizes   procedures through the analysis of
the appropriate use of textbooks,   existing adminitive inefficiencies,
school hbraries and other       elaboration of new operationAl manuals
materials, pedagogical planning  and procedures, and training
an clasoom maagement.           administrtive of personael on new
Resources for training ervices,    effective procedure. Resources for
training materials, technical   technical assistance, training, training
assistance, costs of fares and per    manuals, operation manuals, fares and
diems and incrementatal costs   per diems and inremental recurren
would be provided,              costs would be financed to carry out
the above activities.



-104-                                                 Annex E
Poor Educationl Quality/Low        Weak Intituoa Capacity
Santa Fes' Policy        Improve th qualfry of secondary   To improve the Midstry of Educations'
educaton as expressed by        capacity to deliver cost-effectdve
increased sudent learning. Also.   education under a decentralized.
improve coverage of the         modern and efficient management
secondary aged populadon.       structure.
Specific Iue             Outdated and heterogeneous       Weak educational and financial
curricula varying from school to   (budget) planning capacity.
school, especially in the technical
tracks.
Develop educational and financial
Subproject Responre      Updating of curriculum through    (budget) capacity by establishing more
studies that take tock of       efficient budget and administrative
curricula planned and taught in  procedures, improving recording
schools with special emphasis on    systems and mnagement of physical
options for reconverting technical   and personnel resources. Resources for
education to the polimodal cycle,   technical assistance, training, fares and
The project would support       perdiems, and operational/training
seminars, study tours, and      manuals would be provided.
technical assistance to fine tune
provincial proposal.
Specific Iuue            Deterioration of school          Lack of a system to meure
infrastructure affecting teachers    educational quality.
and students working/learning
conditions.                     Support the developmenrt of a student
assessment system aimed at ensuring
Resurces for civil works,       appropriate supervision of student'
Subproject Response      technical asistnce, and          progress towards national and
equipment for rehabilitating    provincial education goals, which
schools and providing basic     provides feedback on ways to improve
classroom equipment such as    instructional practices at the school
chairs and desks,               level, and which informs policy
decisions on effective use of school
resources. Resources for design and
implementation of the system, technical
assistance, equipment, training and
incremental operating costs would be
provided.
Specifics lue                                             Lack of adequate facilities for the
operation of sub-provincial
administrative offices.
Subproject Response                                       Support consuction and equipping of
regional offices whose aim is to
improve the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation capacity at
the local level by financing civil
works, equipment and technical
asistance.



-105-                               Annex F
ANNEX F: NATIONAL SUBPROJECT
I.    BACKGROUND
1.    Until 1978 the National Ministry of Culture and Education (NMCE) provided nearly
all preschool, primary, and secondary education in a highly centralized fashion. At that time
the military government decided that such a highly centralized system was not appropriately
addressing local quality and equity problems, thus, it transferred control over primary
schools to the provinces. Recently, as a part of the on-going political and socio-economic
transformation underway in Argentina, the new Transfer Law 24.049 (January 1992) also
shifted control of federally operated secondary schools from NMCE to the provinces.
Additionally, the Federal Education Law (Ley Federal de Educaci6n) of April 1993 created a
clear mandate with distribution of responsibilities between the NMCE and the provincial
ministries. In this new framework, NMCE's main responsibilities include policy-setting,
articulation, technical assistance, definition of basic content, quality control, evaluation, and
financial monitoring. Provinces, on the other hand, will be mainly responsible for the day-to-
day administration of all pre-, primary, and secondary schools including the following
financial and provision responsibilities: program supervision; planning and budgeting; school
maintenance and construction; provision of educational materials; hiring and dismissal of
teachers; and teacher training.
2.    To carry out its mandate NMCE has undertaken a major organizational change,
including the elimination of several organizations and the creation of new secretariats,
undersecretariats, and departments with responsibilities for: (i) technical and operational
coordination; (ii) programming, monitoring, and evaluation; (iii) student assessment; and (iv)
management information. Furthermore as a central policy NMEC is implementing several
actions to improve the managerial, administrative, and financial efficiency of NMCE.
II.   MAIN ISSUES
3.    NMCE faces several critical problems that need to be overcome for it to effectively
fulfill its new functions and responsibilities. These are mainly: (i) lack of a national
management information system; (ii) lack of a national student assessment system; (iii) weak
management, financial, and administrative capacity; (iv) inadequate skills of administrative
professionals at the national and provincial level specialized in educational issues; (v) lack of
sector management productivity; and (vi) inefficient use of space at NMCE and poor physical
condition of the National Center for Research and Documentation (NCRD).
4.    Lack of a National Management Information System (NMIS). NMCE does not
have timely, trustworthy, and relevant information to effectively translate educational policies
and strategies into concrete programmatic actions. To carry out its new role in the area of
programming, monitoring, and evaluation it is critical that NMCE improve the availability of
basic information in the following areas: (i) enrollment, dropout, and completion rates; (ii)



-106-                               Annex F
status of educational infrastructure and physical plant; (ii) population ages, gender, and
income; (iv) number, profile and composition of NMCE human resources at different levels
and locations; (v) federal and provincial recurrent and investment budget and expenditures by
category, sources, and purpose; (vi) legal regulations affecting the education sector; and (vii)
relevant documentation and research in education.
5.    Lack of a National Student Assessment System (NSAS). Despite of Argentina's
highly developed educational system there is no systematic measurement of students academic
achievement. Furthermore, the limited information available is not analyzed or shared with
key affected and interested groups. NMCE and provincial authorities need a student
assessment system to: (i) update educational policies and strategies to improve the quality of
education; and (ii) correct inequities in the financing and delivery of educational services.
Schools teachers, principals, and inspectors could utilize the results of the achievement test
for upgrading teaching and learning practices and developing more suitable teaching
materials. The public in general and parents specifically could also use the information on
children's performance to assess progress and possible school choice.
6.    Weak Management, Financial, and Administrative Capacity. The modernization
and decentralization process calls for major reforms of existing managerial, administrative,
and financial practices and procedures. The weakest areas are: (i) disfunction and duplication
of budgeting organizations; (ii) inadequate definition of roles and distribution of
responsibilities among administrative organizations that prevent compliance with the new
Financial Administration Law; (iii) protracted delays with internal administrative processes;
(iv) inadequate system of procurement, inventory, and distribution of goods; (v) lack of a
systematic plan for building maintenance; (vi) inadequate system of personnel administration;
(vii) no record-keeping of a recording system of administrative actions or activities; and (viii)
lack of coordination among the different administrative systems.
7.    Inadequate Skills of High-Level Professionals Within NMCE and The Provinces
Specialized in Educational Issues. A basic condition for long-term improvement of the
education sector is the formation of a team of high-level professionals able to formulate and
sustain adequate policies that will consolidate the decentralization process. Despite
Argentina's sophisticated higher education system, the country does not have postgraduate
programs in education covering practical and operational issues such as the management,
financing and evaluation of the educational system; instead, existing programs are oriented
mainly toward educational research and theoretical studies.
8.    Low Sector Productivity. Currently, there is a little information on how efficiently
physical and personnel resources at the national level are used. It is clear that NMCEs
redefinition of functions has had a direct impact on its demand for resources, yet, it is
unclear whether efficiency improving measures already undertaken have adressed this issue
adequately. The NMCE has taken two main steps to improve sector productivity: first, as
part of the transfer of secondary education to the provinces, it transfered the administration



-107-                               Annex F
and financing of 4,706 schools, 103,161 teaching staff, and 15,034 non-teaching staff;
second, as part of its reorganization, it has reduced its central staff from 2,867 (in 1991) to
1,743 through a process of voluntary retirement and early retirement. Issues involving the
use of physical space are addressed below.
9.    Inefficient Use of Physical Space and Poor Condition of the National Center for
Research and Documentation. Presently there is a lack of knowledge about the availability
and use of physical space under the control of NMCE. Consequently, there is also a lack of
knowledge about which buildings are underutilized, problems in their use, and ways to
maximize savings through better allocation of resources for physical construction and
maintenance. On another hand, lack of continuous maintenance of NMCE facilities has
resulted in serious deterioration of many buildings. The buildings that house the national
information network and the newly created student assessment testing center have been
seriously affected, among others. Measures such as remodeling of bathrooms, ventilation
systems, floor layout, electric power, and communications are badly needed to operate in a
minimally efficient and safe environment. Similarly, the National Center for Research and
Documentation provides teachers and students with assistance needs to be remodeled and
equipped to better serve its users. Specifically, this research center needs: a new floor layout,
including a reorganization of existing work areas; climatization of expensive and old
collections; and better linkage and coordination with other national and provincial libraries.
m. NATIONAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
10.   The National Government's strategy for the education sector has been recently
summarized in the project document, 'Education Sector Investment Program" (Programa
Sectorial de Inversion en Educaci6n) prepared by the Project Preparation Unit of NMCE.
According to this program, the Government has one central objective: to strengthen its
institutional capacity to effectively assume new functions in the areas of policy formulation,
supervision, and evaluation. NMCE has proposed a strategy comprised of seven
subcomponents aimed at achieving this goal: (i) development of a national management
information system; (ii) development of a national student assessment system; (iii)
strengthening of the management, financial, and administrative capacities of NMCE; (iv)
upgrading the skills of administrative provesionals at NMCE and the provinces; (v) sector
management productivity studies to analyze inefficient management and use of physical and
human resources; and (vi) rationalizing the use of existing physical facilities and developing
the Nationnal Center for Research and Documentation (NCRD).
IV. SUBPROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
11.   The proposed subproject would consist of two components: strengthening of
institutional capacity infrastructure rationalization. Below is a brief description.



-108-                              Annex F
12.  Institutional Strengthening and Infrastructure Rationalization (US$ 39.2 million with
contingencies, or 77% of total subproject cost):
13. Development of a National Management Information System (NMIS) and
National Student Assessment System (NSAS). A NMIS would be established to provide
information on: (i) educational statistics; (ii) educational infrastructure; (iii) socio-
demographic trends; (iv) number and profiles of NMCE human resources by level and
location; (v) budgeting and accounting; (vi) educational facilities; and (vi) educational
documentation and research. The project would finance the design and operation of the
NMIS, articulation between the National and Provincial management information systems,
development and purchasing of appropriate software and hardware, an administrative support
system, training of NMIS personnel, information and dissemination processes, and the
required local and external technical assistance. An important activity would be the execution
of an "education census" providing information on teachers, students and schools to
overcome existing information gaps and shortcomings emmanating from the crisis during the
1980s. The census would provide well-designed and consistent information on all
jurisdictions of the federal system, with special emphasis on data involving teachers.
14.   A NSAS would be established to: (i) provide information and monitor student
academic achievement nationwide; (ii) define policies and strategies to improve educational
quality; (iii) process, create, and disseminate information on student achievement; (iv) assist
the provinces in establishing their own provincial academic assessment; and (v) compile
academic achievement information provided by the provinces. The project would support the
design and organization of the system, the design of tests to meet high psychometric
standards, and pilot measurements during the execution of the project.
15.   Specifically, the project would finance for these two subcomponents: approximately
US$2.Om of local technical assistance; an estimated $80,000 of foreign technical assistance;
training courses for approximately 11,500 managers, planners, operators and surveyors;
approximately 40 fellowships and study tours abroad; over 200 microcomputers along with
printers and other communications equipment; publications and dissemination activities; and
operating expenses.
16. Strengthening of Management, Financial, and Administrative Capacity. The
project would support strengthening institutional capacity of the NMCE by improving: (i)
administrative and financial accounting systems; (ii) procurement and distribution procedures;
(iii) management and maintenance of NMCE properties; and (iv) management of personnel
and legal systems. Specifically, the project would finance: the required hardware and
peripheral equipment (approximately 30 PCs, fax machines, and other communications
equipment); approximately US$350,000 of local technical assistance; training for
approximately 4,000 staff; publications and dissemination activities; and transportation and
per diem.



-109-                              Annex F
17.   Upgrading the Skills of Administrative Professionals at the National and
Provincial Level. The project would strengthen the managerial and technical capacity of
NMCE and provinces by enabling approximately 200 high-level professionals to obtain
postgraduate training in: (i) education policy and management; (ii) economics of education
and financing; (iii) educational student assessment; and (iv) curriculum improvement and
innovation. Specifically the project would finance a fund to provide loans to selected
candidates to pursue postgraduate studies through a program that would strengthen the
education departments of selected regional universities and provide short-term study tours
abroad; select and contract a qualified local university to develop masters and doctoral
programs in liaison with a foreign university; and provide funding for organizing, evaluating,
staffing, and operating the programs' administration. Specifically, the project would finance:
approximately US$500,000 in local technical assistance; over 180 study tours; training for
over 640 students; financing for 5 post-graduate programs; publications and dissemination
activities; and operating costs.
18.   Sector Productivity Study. The project would finance during the first year of
project execution an comprehensive study at the national level to identify inefficiencies in the
use of administrative personnel as well as the use of installed physical capacity. The study
would also forecast medium-and long-term personnel and physical facility needs relative to
future the ministry's new functions as defined by the Federal Education Law.
19.   Rationalization of the Use of Physical Facilities and Development of the National
Center for Research and Documentation (NCRD). The project would support the
rationalization of physical space by providing technical assistance to carry out an inventory of
NMCE facilities and elaborate a rehabilitation and maintenance plan. Specifically, the project
would finance approximately 120 staff/months of local consultants. The project would also
support the partial rehabilitation of NMCE headquarters by financing: remodeling, and
provision of furniture and office equipment for the "Paraguay Annex" of NMCE and the
National Center for Research and Documentation and Teacher's Library. Specifically, the
project would finance: approximately $190,000 of local technical assistance; required
hardware and peripheral equipment (approximately 6 PC's, and printers; communications
equipment such as videoscassetes, televisions, and film proyectors; and furniture and other
office equipment.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
20.   The National Ministry proposes to create a National Project Coordination Unit
(NPCU) to assist the implementation of the national subproject and to perform the
coordination, evaluation, monitoring and technical functions that will be necessary for the
project both at national and provincial levels (see Chapter V and Annex P for Project
Management and project execution arrangements). The NPCU would be housed i the
Undersecretary of Programming and Educational Management of the National Ministry of
Culture and Education. The unit would be staffed by a core team of high-level professionals,
technicians and support staff. Specifically, the NPCU would employ one General
Coordinator, 16 senior professionals 3 technicians and 2 support staff.



- 110-                              Annex G
ANNEX G: CORDOBA SUBPROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.    Cordoba, with a population of 2,764,176 in 1991, is the fourth largest province in
Argentina, and with 168,766 square kilometers the fifth largest in area. The province has 26
departments and more than 40 percent of the population lives in the capital. Per capita income
in 1985 was US$1,716 or 10th relative to the other provinces.
2.    Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools. In 1991, 799,663 students were enrolled in the
school system, of which 155,098 (19%) were enrolled in secondary education. Within secondary
education, 74% were enrolled in provincial public schools and 26% in private schools. As shown
in Table G. 1, 89,559 or 58% of all secondary students were transferred from federal schools
under the Federal Education Law (1993). Of the total secondary population 13% were enrolled
in the Bachiller Track, 53% in the Commercial Track, 27% in the Technical Track, 6% in the
Agrarian Track, and 1 % in the Artistic Track. Table G. 1 below provides aggregate information.
Table G.1
CORDOBA: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
Secondary Education (Grades 8-12/13)
Enrollment  Teachers    Schools
Provincial        65,539     6,175        363
Transferred       89,559      6,514       340
Total            155,098     12,689       703
Source: 'Diagn6sticos y Anexos Estadfsticos
Provinciales, 1991.
3.    Quality and Efriciency Indicators. The net enrollment rate for individuals in the 13-17
year old population rose from 47% in 1980 to 76% in 1991. Repetition rates, on another hand,
ranged from 15% to 3 % depending on the type of school and year in the cycle. Generally
speaking, repetition was higher during the first three years of the cycle, especially among
commercial and technical schools. Likewise, dropout rates averaged approximately 45%, yet
were much higher in technical-professional schools where they reached levels as high as 65%.
Overall, only 1 out of 2 students entering 8th grade finish the secondary cycle, for an estimated
completion rate of approximately 50%. This represents high wastage of human, financial, and
physical resources.
4.    Sector Productivity. Cordoba like the other project provinces is affected by inefficient
management of its human resources. This is manifested by a low student-teacher ratio of
approximately 12.22 to 1. The main cause behind the sector's low productivity is the lack of a



- 111 -                              Annex G
human resources policy to adequately plan and regulate hiring and deployment. The Provincial
Government has taken several measures to improve the sector's productivity. Since 1992, the
Ministry has taken the following steps to improve it's management of human resources: (i) put
in effect a much stricter control of licences and limited personnel practice to only posts for
which personnel was qualified; (ii) implementation of a new licence regime for substitute
teachers with the aim of ensuring equal qualifications to those of regular teachers; (iii)
decentralization of recurrent expenditures to the school level with the aim of better controlling
their use; and (iv) provision of monetary incentives for teachers with low absenteeism.
II. MAIN ISSUES
5.    Decentralization of secondary education has been a high priority for the Cordoba
Government. Critical in this process are: (i) poor educational quality; (ii) weak institutional
capacity; and (iii) inadequate physical infrastructure.
6.    Poor Educational Quality. Cordoba's low internal efficiency, expressed by poor quality
indicators (para. 3) are largely a consequence of: (i) lack of resources for innovations within the
school which support school-initiated activities aimed at raising student achievement; (ii) lack
of modern informational technologies for use by teachers and students; and (iii) an outdated
curriculum characterized by a profession of course offerings that varies from school to school.
7.    Weak Institutional Capacity. The recent transfer of secondary education from the
Federal govemment forced Cordoba's Ministry of Education to assume management of an
education system almost one and a half times its previous size. The transfer has helped highlight
key sector management problems such as: (i) deficient and outdated administrative organizations
with inefficient norms and procedures; (ii) lack of a clear and efficient human resource policy
resulting; (iii) deficient educational and financial planning system incapable of appropriately
carrying out programming, expenditure, and control functions; (iv) deficient management
information system to provide timely and reliable data on human, financial and physical
resources; and (vi) lack of a student assessment system to monitor student progress in meeting
provincial and national educational goals.
8.    Inadequate Facilities. Cordoba's administrative infrastructure currently lacks the
necessary facilities to carry out administrative functions efficiently. The main problem in this
respect is the lack of Regional Educational Administration Delegations (DRAE) at the sub-
provincial level to improve administration, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation capacity
at the local level.
m. PROVINCIAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
9.    Cordoba's strategy for the education sector has been recently summarized in the project
document, Education Sector Investment Program (Programa Sectorial de Inversion en Educacion)
prepared by the province's Project Preparation Unit. According to this program, the government
has two major educational objectives: (i) to improve educational quality; and (ii) to strengthen
institutional capacity .



- 112 -                            Annex G
10.  To improve educational quality the province plans to: (i) promote educational innovations
at the local level; (ii) develop an information technologies program; and (iii) update the
curriculum.
11.  To improve institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education the province plans to: (i)
establish modem administrative organizations with efficient norms and procedures; (ii) develop
an effective human resource policy; (iii) develop educational and financial planning capacity; (iv)
develop a management information system; (vi) develop a student assessment system; and (iv)
build and equip sub-provincial Regional Educational Administration Delegations.
IV. SUBPROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
12.   The proposed subproject has an estimated cost of US$25.3 million, including
contingencies and would consist of three components: (i) an educational quality improvement
component; (ii) an institutional strengthening component; and (iii) an infrastructure improvement
component. Below is a brief description of each with its subcomponents.
13.   Educational Quality Improvement (US$ 11.1 million with contingencies, or 44% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Development of Educational Innovation at Secondary Level. The project would
support about 165 special school projects designed as a mechanism to encourage
school initiatives through competition for extra financial resources. Through this
grant program the project would respond to local teaching conditions and support
the improvement of learning conditions within the school. Each school project
would have a duration of one year. The grants would be targeted to schools
operating in disadvantaged areas and will be allocated on a competitive basis. The
grants would be used for funding non-personnel, non-recurrent expenditure
activities such as: (a) developing teaching and learning materials for schools; (b)
implementing cultural activities organized by groups of parents and teachers; and
(c) organizing school theater and/or school radio broadcasting operated by
students and teachers. The project will finance about 33 grants of approximately
US$15,000 each during every year of the project (total of approximately 400
grants); training for approximately 8,000 teachers, directors, and supervisors in
identification of school quality needs and formulation of grant proposals; and
production of dissemination and training materials.
(b)   Development of Information Technologies Program. The project will support
the Centro de Informatica Educativa (CRIE) in the promotion and development
of information technologies within the Delegaciones Regionales and the schools.
The program would be implemented in two phases: in the first phase, teachers
would be introduced and trained in the use of computers and educational software
at the Delegaciones Regionales; in the second phase, information workshops
would be set-up within the schools, and teachers would train students in their use.
Specifically, the project would finance: approximately 77 workshops (15 PCs



- 113 -                             Annex G
each), as well as printers and other communications equipment; around 60
staff/months of local and foreign technical assistance; training for approximately
22,000 teachers; over 80,000 texts and guides for training in the above activities;
operating expenses; and fellowships and traineeships.
(c)   Updating of Curriculum. The project would support an "estudio de situaci6n'
of existing curriculum within traditional schools, including those transferred from
the national government with the aim of producing necessary basic information
needed for decisions related to the extension of the reform and/or curriculum
organization within the guidelines of the new federal law, as well as technical
assistance to fine-tune a proposed updated curriculum. Specifically, the project
would finance: approximately 50 staff/months of local and foreign technical
assistance; training of approximately 800 staff; and study tours and seminars.
14.  Institutional Strengthening (US$ 6.1 million with contingencies, or 24%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Establishment of Modern Administrative Organizations with Efficient Norms
and Procedures. This subcomponent involves reorganizing the Ministry of
education, and decentralizing the administrative and pedagogic supervision
functions--for pre-primary, primary, secondary and teacher training--in Regional
Delegations for Educational Administration (DRAE). DRAEs would be
responsible for providing administrative and pedagogical support to the schools.
In this framework, the project will support: training of central ministry and
DRAE personnel in critical functions such as planning and monitoring; training
school personnel in the use of computers for more effective school management.
The project would finance: approximately US$180,000 local technical assistance;
training activities for around 475 central and DRAE staff in the above related
activities; travel and per diem costs for the above training activities; provision of
8 computers; and operating expenses and maintenance.
(b)   Development and Implementation of a Human Resource Policy. The project
would support: studies leading to reform of the teacher employment law
("estatuto del docente"); new norms and procedures for hiring, monitoring,
evaluating, promoting and dismissing teachers based on the recommendations of
the above studies; and formulation of regulations and supervisory models to
control teacher time on task and absenteeism. The project would finance
approximately US$20,000 of local technical assistance.
(c)   Development of Educational and Flnancial Planning Capacity. The project
would support technical assistance and training to develop an effective planning
unit capable of designing and implementing strategies to improve physical, human
and physical resource allocation. By the end of the project the planning unit
should be capable of: (a) reviewing system conditions and performance, forecast
enrollment changes, and employ basic planning models to project changing



- 114 -                             Annex G
demands in the system and necessary policies; (b) effectively carry out budgeting
and financing procedures to ensure adequate programming, expenditure, and
control of the provincial education resources. Specifically, the project would
finance: approximately $50,000 of local technical assistance; training for
approximately 300 staff; publications and didactic materials for staff training;
dissemination activities; and operating expenses.
(d)   Development of a Management Information System  (MLS). To design,
implement, and sustain a MIS that has links to the National Information Network
and the Provincial Information Network which includes the DRAE, the project
would finance: approximately US$250,000 of local technical assistance for
installation of the information system; the acquisition of 8 PC computers,
printers, FAXes, modems and other communication equipment for the
implementation of an information network; training courses for about 100 staff
would be provided; costs of fares and per diems for the above training activity;
and operating expenses consisting of maintenance and personnel salaries.
(e)   Development of a Student Assessment System (SAS). To design, implement,
and sustain a SAS network with links to the National Govemment and other
Provinces, the project would finance: approximately US$70,000 of technical
assistance; provision of didactic material for approximately 90,000 students; and
incremental recurrent expenses in the form of current personnel salaries; plus
operating expenses including maintenance.
15.  Infrastructure Impme=   (US$ 5.8 million with contingencies, or 23%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Construction and Equipment of Regional Educational Administration
Delegations (DRAE). To facilitate the process of administrative decentralization
and to improve implementation, monitoring, and evaluation capacity in areas such
as information systems development, teacher training, and the appropriate use of
information technologies, the project will finance construction and equipment of
7 DRAE throughout the province.
V.   SUBPROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
16.   The province proposes to create a small Provincial Project Coordination Unit -PPCU-
(USS 2.4 million with contingencies, or 9% of total subproyect cost) to assist the implementation
of the subproject. The PPCU would be located in the planning department of the Ministry of
Education. The unit would be staffed by a core team of high-level professionals, technicians and
support staff. Specifically, the PPCU would employ 2 senior professionals, 3 technical staff and
4 support staff to carry out the functions and responsibilities ascribed to each provincial PCU.



- 115-                              Annex H
ANNEX H: LA PAMPA SUBPROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.    La Pampa, with a population of 260,034 inhabitants in 1991, is the 21st one the least
populous provinces in Argentina, with 143,440 square kilometers is the 8th largest in area. The
Province has 22 Departments and 79 municipalities. Per capita income in 1985 was U$ 2,904
or 4th highest relative to other provinces.
2.    Enrollment, Teachers and Schools. In 1991, 68,508 students were enrolled in the school
system, of which 17,834 (26%) enrolled in secondary education. Within secondary education,
74% of students enrolled in public schools and 26% in private schools. As shown in Table H. 1,
11,970 or 67% of all secondary students were transferred from federal schools under the
Transfer Law (1992). Of the total secondary population 9,637 (54%) were enrolled in the
Bachiller Track, 3,758 (21%) in the Commercial Track, 2,596 (15%) in the Technical Track,
1,398 (8%) in the Agrarian Track, and 681 (4%) in the Artistic Track. Table H.1 below
provides an overview of education data in the province.
Table H.1
LA PAMPA: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
Secondary Education (Grades 8-12/13)
Enrollment      Teachers         Schools
Provincial        5,864            740             41
Transferred       11,970           1,361           56
Total             17,834           2,101            97
Source: Diagnosticos y Anexos Estadsticos Provinciales, 1992.
3.    Quality and Efficiency Indicators. The transition rate from primary to secondary
education was 84% in 1992. On the other hand, dropout rates for the cycle averaged
approximately 41%. Dropout rates were significantly higher among technical and agricultural
school students, where they averaged approximately 69% for the cycle. In 1991, only 4 out of
10 students entering 8th grade finished the secondary cycle, for an estimated completion rate of
40%. This represents high wastage of human, financial, and physical resources.
4.    Sector Productivity. La Pampa's track record in the area of personnel management is
weak compared to other provinces. In 1992, student/teacher ratios were 12.6/1 among all
schools and 8.3/1 among secondary schools. Furthermore, the system was affected by high
absenteeism and poor deployment and promotion policies. Since 1992, the Provincial
Government has taken large steps to improve the sector's low productivity: It overhauled the



- 116 -                             Annex H
existing norms and procedures regulating teacher's compensation and promotion. The objectives
of these measures have been to: modify the salary schedule to better reward productivity; and
redefine criteria for promotion. So far, the Ministry has succeeded in implementing a new salary
schedule which clearly differentiates between administrative and teaching positions, compensates
for geographical location (thus rewarding rural teachers), rewards low abstenteeism, recognizes
participation in in-service training, fills new posts on a competitive basis, and reduces the weight
alloted to seniority in salary and promotion decisions. Since its implementation, absenteeism has
been reduced and promotions and salary increases have been based on the above mentioned
criteria.
H. MAIN ISSUES
5.    Decentralization of secondary education has been a high priority for the La Pampa
Government in the last year. Critical in this process is the need to overcome problems associated
with: (i) low education quality which results in high repetition and dropout rates as well as low
completion rates; (ii) weak and inefficient institutional capacity ; and (iii) inadequate educational
and administrative facilities.
6.    Low Educational Quality. As previously discussed, La Pampa's educational system
suffers from low quality as revealed by poor internal efficiency indicators (para. 3). This is
mainly due to: (i) lack of educational materials and equipment and new didactic materials which
reflect emerging curricular guidelines; (ii) lack of training for human resources, especially lack
of teacher familiarity with curriculum and modern pedagogical strategies; (iii) lack of
information on problems with implementing curricular reforms and necessary steps to overcome
these problems and on students' socio-economic background and its impact on achievement; and
(iv) ) lack of a scientific and technological innovations program.
7.    Weak Institutional Capacity. The recent transfer of secondary education from the
federal government forced LAPAME to assume management of an education system three times
its previous size. The transfer has helped highlight key problems with the sector's management
such as: (i) deficient and outdated administrative organizations with inefficient norms and
procedures; (ii) lack of a management information system for financial planning, programming,
and expenditure control; and (iii) lack of a student assessment system.
8.   Inadequate Facilities. Many of La Pampa's administrative and school facilities lack the
necessary infrastructure needed to comply with their functions in a safe and effective manner.
Specifically, the problems are: (i) lack of adequate facilities for the operation of Coordination
(Regional) Offices needed to facilitate the decentralization process; (ii) inadequate school
facilities which are in a severe state of disrepair and/or overcrowded thus limiting access to
secondary education while also adversely affecting working conditions of teachers and directors.
HI. PROVINCIAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
9.    La Pampa's strategy for the education sector summarized in the project document,
Education Sector Investment Program (Programa Sectorial de Inversion en Educacion), prepared
by the province's Project Preparation Unit. According to this program, the provincial



- 117 -                             Annex H
government has two major objectives: (i) to improve educational quality and increase coverage;
and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity.
10.  To improve educational quality and increase coverage the province plans to: (a) provide
educational materials and equipment and develop the curriculum; (b) train human resources; (c)
conduct studies on the state and effects of curriculum reform as well as student socioeconomic
background and its effects on achievement; (d) develop a scientific and technological innovations
program; and (e) rehabilitate and construct school facilities.
11.  To strengthen institutional capacity the province plans to: (a) establish modem
administrative organizations with efficient norms and procedures; (b) develop a management
information system (MIS); (c) develop a student assessment system (SAS); and (d) constuct
Coordination Offices.
IV. SUBPROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
12.   The proposed subproject has an estimated cost of US$ 19.7 million, including
contingencies, and would consist of three components: (i) and educational quality improvement
component; (ii) an institutional strengthening component; and (iii) an infrastructure improvement
component. Below is a brief description of each along with its subcomponents.
13.   Educational Ouality Improvement (US$ 6.7 million with contingencies, or 34% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Development of Curriculum and Provision of Educational Materials. The
project would provide funding for: (i) textbooks and teaching materials; (ii)
development of didactic materials which incorporate new curricular guidelines;
and (iii) a grant fund on a competitive basis to address specific problems related
to quality weaknesses at the school level. More specifically, the project would
finance: approximately 25,000 textbooks; approximately 60 modules in the areas
of biology, physics, multimedia, information and others; and (iii) approximately
700 grants of approximately US$600 each.
(b)   Human Resources Training. The project would provide funding for: (i)
upgrading the skills of recently transferred teachers, to acquaint then with
provincial curriculum requirements; and (iii) in-service teacher training for
uncertified teachers to comply with the certification requirements of the province.
Specifically, the project would finance: 50 staff/months of training for over
7,400 teachers ini basic subject areas, classroom management, the appropriate use
of educational materials, and the formulation of school innovation proposals;
approximately 1,800 training manuals and teacher guides; around 50 staff/months
of fellowships for exchange of views among teachers and directors; and
approximately 100 staff/months of study tours within and outside the country to
learn about school and classroom management.



- 118 -                             Annex H
(c)   Studies. The project would provide funding for: (i) analyzing the impacts of the
Ciclo Superior Program curricular design on educational quality; (ii) evaluating
the curricular experience carried out since 1992 under the "Proyecto Cambio";
and (iii) evaluating provincial student socio-economic factors that might contribute
to low retention and high repetition rates. More specifically, the project would
finance: approximately US$40,000 of technical assistance to evaluate the Ciclo
Superior Program; around US$40,000 of technical assistance to evaluate the
"Proyecto Cambio"; and approximately US$40,000 of technical assistance for the
study on student socio-economic background and its incidence on education
quality.
(d)   Development of Scientific and Technological Innovations Program. The
project would support about 63 special school projects designed as a mechanism
to encourage school initiative through competition for extra financial resources.
Through this grant program the project would respond to local teaching conditions
and support the improvement of learning conditions within the school. Each
school project would have a duration of one year. Additionally, the program
would support establishment of information workshops and laboratories to foster
increased learning of the sciences and technologies through hands-on experiences.
The project will finance about 63 grants of approximately US$10,000 each
(training of teachers on the preparation of grant proposals would be carried out
under the training subcomponent above); approximately 50 science laboratories;
and information workshops consisting of approximately 500 PCs with educational
software.
14.  Institutional Strengthening (US$ 5.6 million with contingencies, or 29%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Establishment of Modern Administrative Organizations with Efricient Norms
and Procedures. The project would support: the analysis and implementation of
a new organization for LAPAME, regional offices and schools which would
improve management, supervision, and monitoring at each level; the development
of school institutional plans and management systems that would improve school
administration; upgrading of managerial skills of school principals and regional
coordinators. The project would finance: training of 4,632 directors,
administratorts, planners and pedagogical supervisors; and distribution of 8,817
guides and other didactic materials for use in the training seminars; about
US$70,000 of local technical assistance; and around 100 PC computers, and 100
printers (one for each school); communication equipment; and publications and
dissemination activities.
(b)   Development of a Management Information System  (MIS). To design,
implement, and sustain a MIS that has links to the National Management
Information System and the Provincial Information Network, the project would
finance the: acquisition of approximately 41 PCs, plus printers, software and
- ------- ------



- 119-                              Annex H
communication equipment; approximately US$60,000 of local technical
assistance; and recurrent costs including personnel.
(c)   Development of a Student Assessment System (SAS). The project would
provide specific resources to develop a SAS whose purpose will be to provide
periodic and reliable information on progress toward federal and provincial
educational achievement goals and to guide education policy decisions. The
equipment used for this activity would be the same as that used for the MIS. To
help develop of a SAS, the project would finance: about US$15,000 of local
technical assistance; test taking materials for approximately 8,000 students; and
didactic materials for 40 sector managers and analysts in the use and
implementation of the system.
15. Infrastructure Improvement (US$ 6.3 million with contingencies, or 32% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Construction of Coordination (Regional) Offices. The project would finance the
construction of seven coordination offices, linked to existing school facilities, to
support the decentralization of management and coordination activities. Overall,
the project would finance seven Regional Offices.
(b)   Rehabilitation and Construction of School Facilities. The project would finance
the construction of 4 new schools to replace schools currently operating in rented
facilities or working working on a three-shift schedule. Furthermore, the project
would finance additions of physical capacity to 4 schools. Lastly, the project
would finance the gas installations for 15 schools.
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
16.  The province proposes to create a small Provincial Project Coordination Unit -PPCU-
(U$1. 1m with contingencies, or 5% of total subproyect cost) to assit the implementation of the
subproject. The PPCU would be located in the coordination subsecretariat of the Ministry of
Education. The unit would be staffed with high-level professionals, technicians and support staff.
Specifically the PPCU would employ 1 general coordinator, 3 senior professionals 1 technical
staff and 2 support staff to carry out the functions and responsibilities ascribe to each provincial
PCU.



- 120 -                              Annex I
ANNEX I: MENDOZA SUBPROJECT
I.    BACKGROUND
l.    Mendoza, with a population of 1,414,058 in 1991, is the 5th most populous province in
Argentina, and with 148,827 square kilometers the 7th largest in area. Per capita income in
1985 was US$1,985 or 8th relative to other provinces.
2.    Enrollment, Teachers and Schools. In 1992, 328,435 students were enrolled in the
school system (including pre-school, primary, secondary, and adult education) of which 65,710
(20%) enrolled in secondary education. Within secondary education, 74% were enrolled in
public provincial schools and 26% in private schools. As shown in Table I.1, 39,123 or 60%
of all secondary students were transferred from federal schools under the Federal Education Law
(1993). No information is available on enrollments, teachers, and schools by educational track.
Table 1.1 provides an overview of education data in the province.
Table 1.1
MENDOZA: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
Secondary Education (Grades 8-12/13)
Enrollment       Teachers          Schools
Provincial            26,587           2,406W             77
Transferred*          39,123            3,181            123
Total                  65,710           5,587            200
Source: Diagn6sticos y Anexos Estadfsticos Provinciales, 1992.
a. Provincial work load of 30/hrs.
* Refers to public and private subsidized schools.
3.    Quality and Efriciency Indicators. The net enrollment rate of individuals in the 13-19
year old population rose from 50% in 1980 to 63% in 1991. The transition rate between
primary and secondary school was 70% in 1991. Repetition rates averaged 13% while dropout
rates were approximately 20% for the population yet ranged as high as 49-60% for the technical-
professional track. Overall, only 8 out of 10 students entering 8th grade finish the secondary
cycle, for an estimated completion rate of 80%. This represents high wastage of human,
financial, and physical resources.
4.    Sector Productivity. Mendoza like the other project provinces is affected by inefficient
management of its human resources. This is manifested by a low student-teacher ratio of
approximately 10.2 to 1. The main cause behind the sector's low productivity is the lack of a
human resources policy to adequately plan and regulate hiring and deployment. The Provincial
Govemment has taken several measures to improve the sector's productivity. Since 1992,
Direcci6n General de Escuelas (DGE) has taken the following steps to improve it's management
of human resources: (i) passage of The Salary Law 5811 put in effect a much stricter control



-121 -                               Annex I
of licences and limited personnel practice to only posts for which personnel was qualified; (ii)
implementation of a new licence regime for substitute teachers with the aim of ensuring equal
qualifications to those of regular teachers; (iii) decentralization of recurrent expenditures to the
school level with the aim of better controlling their use; and (iv) provision of monetary
incentives for teachers with low absenteeism.
II.   MAIN ISSUES
5.    Mendoza faces several critical problems that need to be overcome for it to effectively
fulfill its new functions of delivering all public secondary education. These problems are mainly:
(i) poor educational quality expressed by low internal efficiency indicators (para. 3); (ii) weak
institutional capacity; and (iii) inadequate educational facilities.
6.    Low Educational Quality. As previously discussed, Mendoza has poor quality and
internal efficiency indicators (para. 3). This is mainly due to: (i) lack of training for human
resources; (ii) lack of didactic materials and equipment; (iii) weak Promotion of Science and
Technology Program; (iv) weak Compensatory Program for Adult Secondary Education; (v) lack
of Student Achievement Improvement Program for Secondary Education; and (vi) lack of
information on the impact of past curricular reforms and the feasibility of proposed present
reforms.
7.    Weak Institutional Capacity. The recent transfer of secondary education from the
federal government has exacerbated existing management and organizational problems within the
DGE. Principal among these problems are: (i) inadequate administrative organizations and
inefficient norms and procedures; (ii) lack of educational and financial planning; (iii) lack of an
efficient human resource policy; (iv) lack of a management information system; and (v) weak
student assessment system.
8.    Inadequate Facilities. Mendoza lacks the necessary infrastructure for educational
purposes. The main problems are: deficient school infrastructure, illustrated by a recent study
(1993) which found that 46 secondary schools (23% of the total) require corrective action either
in the form of rehabilitation or expansion.
Im.  PROVINCIAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
9.    Mendoza's strategy for the education sector has been recently summarized in the project
document, Education Sector Investment Program (Programa Sectorial de Inversion en
Educacion), prepared by the province's Project Preparation Unit. According to this program,
the government has three major educational objectives: (i) to improve educational quality and
increase coverage; and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity. .
10.   To improve educational quality and increase coverage the province plans to: (i) provide
training for human resources; (ii) provide didactic materials and equipment; (iii) develop a
Promotion of Science and Technology Program; (iv) strengthen the Compensatory Program for
Adult Secondary Education (PROCEMA); (v) strengthen the Improvement of Student



- 122 -                             Annex I
Achievement Program  for Secondary Education Program  (PROMEREM); (vi) support
curriculum development; (vii) rehabilitate, expand and construct school infrastructure.
11.  To improve institutional capacity the province plans to: (i) establish of modem
administrative organizations with efficient norms and procedures; (ii) establish efficient
educational and financial planning capacity; (iii) develop a clear and efficient human resource
policy; (iv) develop a management information system; and (v) develop a student assessment
system.
V. SUBPROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
12.   The proposed subproject has an estimated cost of approximately US$ 55.0 million
including contingencies and would consist of three components: (i) an educational quality
improvement component; (ii) an institutional strengthening component; and (iii) an infrastructure
improvement component. Below is a brief description of each with its subcomponents.
13.   Educational Quality Im2rovement (US$ 33.1 million with contingencies, or 60% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Human Resources Training. The project would provide funding for seminars
and the elaboration of required teaching materials on: (a) appropriate use of
textbooks, libraries, information workshops, and other learning materials financed
by the Bank; (b) curriculum development, pedagogical planning, monitoring, and
evaluation; and (c) school and classroom management. Teachers, directors and
pedagogical supervisors from secondary schools and the Centros de Nivel
Secundario de Adultos (CENs) would be trained. The pre-and in-service teacher
training schools operating in the Province and the country would be invited to
participate in designing and providing the required training events. More
specifically, the project would provide training for: over 7,500 teachers,
directors, and supervisors; approximately 1,900 sets of didactic materials for
training in subject disciplines; around 5,000 guides and textbooks for training on
curriculum development and classroom management; around 550 staff/months of
local technical assistance; travel and per diem cost for the above training
activities; and operating expenses.
(b)   Provision of Didactic Materials and Equipment. This subcomponent would be
aimed at providing teachers and students with learning materials and equipment,
and train them in their use. Five different types of educational materials (non-
hardware) would be supported by this subcomponent: textbooks, school libraries,
educational video equipment, science laboratories, and information workshops.
Specifically, the project would finance: the design and provision of over 15,000
textbooks for approximately 8,000 students in the first three grades; provision of
around 131 school libraries comprised of around 100 volumes each (total of
approximately 13,000 volumes); and provision of one television and a
videocassette player to approximately 130 schools; training of approximately 400
teachers in the appropriate use of video equipment; and approximately 170
science laboratories.



- 123 -                             Annex I
(c)   Promotion of Science and Technology Program. The main objective of this
subcomponent is to expose teachers and students on the use of information
technologies. To this end, the project would finance the formation of
approximately 170 school-based information centers and 8 regional libraries for
teachers. The project would provide funding for training over 7,000 teachers in
the use of equipment provided as well as support for school activities such as
inter-school science and information competitions, travel costs, and research
projects. Lastly, around 280 staff/months of local technical assistance and 5
staff/months of foreign technical assistance would be financed.
(d)   Compensatory Program for Adult Secondary Education (PROCEMA). The
project would provide funding for improving the quality of CENS through direct
investments in teacher training, textbooks, didactic materials, and technical
assistance. Specifically, the project would finance: training of approximately 180
teachers in the use of textbooks and didactic materials financed by the Bank; the
distribution of five textbooks per student of the first three years of the program
(approximately 70,000 books in total); and approximately USS25,000 in local
technical assistance and US$5,000 in foreign technical assistance.
(e)   Improvement of Student Achievement Program for Secondary Education
(PROMEREM). The project would provide funding for approximately 130
schools with the lowest student achievement by providing textbooks, didactic
materials and counseling services. Specifically, the project would finance: the
purchase of over 220,000 textbooks for approximately 40 schools and provision
of a approximately 60,000 sets of didactic materials; operating expenses for about
30 schools in the areas of phychopedagogic and social services; and around
US$20,000 in local technical assistance and approximately US$6,000 in foreign
technical assistance.
(f)   Curriculum  Development. The project would provide funding for: (i) an
"estudio de situtaci6n' aimed at taking stock of the different curricula being
taught, especially in vocational schools; and (ii) a feasibility study of reconverting
these programs to short courses within the polimodal system which would count
with a strong link to the private sector. Specifically, the project would finance:
approximately US$170,000 of local technical assistance; around US$20,000 of
foreign technical assistance; and operating expenses.
14.  Institutional Strengthening (USS 5.6 million with contingencies, or 10%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Establishment of Modern Administrative Organizations with Efficient Norms
and Procedures. The project would help strengthen the normative, regulatory,
and management functions of the DGE by: (i) providing technical assistance to
improve the organizational structure and distribution of responsibilities at different
levels; (ii) simplifying administrative procedures through the elaboration of
operational manuals, procedures and monitoring; and (iii) providing technical



- 124 -                             Annex I
assistance for updating the normative framework that regulates the functioning of
the sector from the DGE to the school level; and (iv) training personnel in critical
functions within DGE in the above changes. The project would finance:
approximately US$10,000 in local technical assistance; training activities for over
3,000 provincial staff in the above related activities; travel and per diems costs
for training; provision of approximately 150 sets of training materials; and
incremental recurrent costs including operating expenses.
(b)   Development of Educational and Fmancial Planning Capacity. The project
would support technical assistance and training to develop an effective planning
unit capable of designing and implementing strategies to improve physical, human
and physical resource allocation. By the end of the project the planning unit
should be able to: (a) review system conditions and performance, forecast
enrollment changes, and employ basic planning models to project changing
demands in the system and necessary policies; (b) effectively carry out budgeting
and financing procedures to ensure adequate programming, expenditure, and
control of provincial education resources (especially physical facilities).
Specifically, the project would finance: approximately $20,000 of local technical
assistance; approximately 2 PC's, accompanying software, and communicatins
equipment; training for around 2,000 staff; publications and dissemination
activities; and incremental recurrent costs consisting of personnel and other
operating expenses.
(c)   Design and Implementation of Human Resource Policy. To develop a system
that better manages the sector's teaching force, the project would finance: (i) a
study that leads to a reorganization of the number and type of teachers; (ii) new
norms and procedures for hiring, monitoring, evaluating, promoting and
dismissing teachers in accordance to the recommendations of the previously
mentioned study; and (iii) a more efficient organization of DGE. Specifically,
the project would finance; approximately US$100,000 of local technical
assistance; and publications and dissemination activities.
(d)   Development of a Management Information System. To design, implement,
and sustain an MIS that has links to the National Information Network and the
Provincial Information Network, the project would finance: around US$180,000
of local technical assistance; training activities for about 50 provincial managers
and technical staff on the implementation and appropriate use of the system;
approximately 91 PCs, printers, and Faxes, and a network along with
accompanying software and fumiture; provision of approximately 70 sets of
training materials; and recurrent costs including operating expenses and
maintenance.
(e)   Development of a Student Assessnent System (SAS). To design, implement,
and sustain a SAS network with links to the Federal Government and other
Provinces, the project would finance: approximately US$450,000 in local
technical assistance; training activities for about 100 provincial managers and



- 125 -                             Annex I
technical staff in the above related activities; around 25 PC computers, printers,
Faxes, and network along with accompanying software and furniture; publications
and dissemination activities; provision of approximately 14,000 training materials;
incremental recurrent costs consisting of operating expenses, and maintenance;
and study tours and scholarships.
15.  Infrastructure Improvemn  (US$ 14.4 million with contingencies, or 26% of total
subproject cost):
Rehabilitation, Expansion and Constmction of School Infrastructure. The
project will correct most of the existing infrastructure deficiencies and space
shortage (coverage) previously outlined by: rehabilitation of 11 school buildings;
expansion of 37 existing school facilities; and construction of 12 new schools. It
is estimated that through these activities, most of the infrastructure problems in
the secondary subsector be corrected.
VI.PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
16.   The province proposes to create a small Provincial Project Coordination Unit -PPCU-
(US$ 1.9 million with contingencies, or 4% of total subproject cost) to assist the implementation
of the subproject. The PPCU would be located in the school department of the Ministry of
Education. The unit would be staffed with high-level professionals, technicians and support staff.
Specifically the PPCU would employ 1 general coordinator, 4 senior staff, 1 technical staff and
2 support staff to carry out the functions and responsibilities ascribed to each provincial PCU.



- 126 -                             Annex J
ANNEX J: MISIONES SUBPROJECT
I.    BACKGROUND
1.    Misiones with a population of 789,677 in 1991, is the 11th largest province in Argentina,
and with 29,801 square kilometers the 21st largest in terms of size. The province has a young
population given that 40.2% of the total is under the age of 15. The Province has 17
Departments and 75 Municipalities. Per capita income in 1985 was US$856 or 20th highest
relative to other provinces, among the lowest in the country.
2.    Enrollment, Teachers and Schools. In 1993, 235,171 students were enrolled in the
school system, of which 46,243 (19.7%) were enrolled in secondary education. Within
secondary education, 81 % were enrolled in public schools and 19 % in private schools. As shown
in Table J. 1, 23,187 or 50.1 % of all secondary students were transferred from federal schools
under the Federal Education Law (1993). Of the total secondary population 26,755 (58%) were
enrolled in the Bachiller Track, 12,148 (26%) in the Commercial Track, 6,855 (15%) in the
Technical Track, and 485 (1%) in the Agrarian Track. Table J. 1 below provides more
information.
Table J.1
MISIONES: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
Secondary Education (Grades 8-12/13)
Enrollment       Teachers         Schools
Provincial             23,056            4,343             91
Transferred            23,187            3,665             74
Total                  46,243            8,008            165
Source: 'Diagn6sticos y Anexos Estad(sticos Provinciales, 1992'
3.    Quality and Efficiency Indicators. The net enrollment rate of individuals in the 15-19
year old population was 35 % in 1980 and 41 % in 1991. The primary education completion rate
was 81 % in 1991, while the transition rate from primary to secondary education was
approximately 90% in 1992. Despite a high transition rate from primary to secondary, only
about 35 % of all students secondary students finish the cycle. On another hand, repetition and
drop-out rates averaged 12% and 46 %, respectively for the whole cycle. Repetition and drop-out
rates are especially marked during the first two years of the secondary cycle. This represents
high wastage of human, financial, and physical resources.
4.    Sector Productivity. With regard to low administrative efficiency, Misiones has a large
teaching force that is even larger when substitute teachers, which are needed given high rates
of absenteeism, are taken into account. Low student-teacher ratios provide a good indication of
inefficiency: in 1992, this ratio was 10.7 at the secondary level while in primary it was 18.3.
The Provincial Government is taking concrete steps to correct this problem: In 1992, Decree
539/92 was passed wich aimed at rationalizing the public sector by approximately 10% across



- 127 -                              Annex J
all ministries. Since 1992, approximately 2,000 public employees have been provided severance
payments or taken off salary lists from an estimated total of 27,147. Provincial authorities
anticipate a further reduction of 2,000 public employees over the next two years. In the Ministry
of Education, these activities have been supported by the implementation of an updated
budgeting and accounting system with technical assistance from the Provincial Development
Project I (1990) which has done away with "ghostw teachers or teachers on multiple payrolls.
Current efforts by the Ministry to reduce the problem of absenteeism include discussions with
teacher unions which would make salary increases for permanent teachers contingent on
reductions achieved in decreases in the number of substitute teachers hired.
H. MAIN ISSUES
5.    Decentralization of secondary education has been a high priority for the Misiones
Government. Critical in this process are: (i) poor education quality which results in high
repetition and drop-out as well as low completion rates; (ii) weak management and organizational
capacity of the sector's institutions; and (iii) inadequate facilities.
6.    Poor Education Quality. Misiones low quality and efficiency indicators (para. 3) are
mainly due to: (i) lack of textbooks, reading and instructional materials such as televisions, vide
cassette players, video tapes, dictionaries, maps and charts; (ii) lack of training for human
resources, especially teachers in crucial areas such as the appropriate use of textbooks and
learning materials, pedagogical planning, monitoring, and evaluation; (iii) weak open and
distance education program manifested by outdated didactic materials, lack of training for
Educational Assistants (EA), lack of outreach activities, and poor articulation with the main
secondary education system; and (iv) an outdated curricula.
7.    Weak lnstitutional Capacity. The recent transfer of secondary education to Misiones
has highlighted many management and organizational problems not properly addressed following
the transfer of primary education such as: (i) deficient administrative organizations and
inefiicient norms and procedures; (ii) lack of educational and financial planning capacity; (iii)
deficient management information system to program, control and inspect human, physical, and
financial resources; (iv) lack of a student assessment system; and (v) lack of a program to
maintain the sector's infrastructure.
8.    Deficient Infrastructure. Misiones educational infrastructure is lacking the necessary
conditions for its educational and administrative purposes. The main problems are: (i) deficient
school infrastructure expressed through decay of many facilities and overcrowded schools; (ii)
lack of basic school equipment such as desks, chairs, and filing cabinets needed to carry out
basic class assigniments; and (iii) lack of regional offices to better monitor and supervise the
province's education system.
IMI. PROVINCIAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
9.          Misiones' strategy fcr the education sector has been recently summarized in the
project document Education Sector Investment Progr2m (Programa Sectorial de Inversion en



- 128 -                             Annex J
Educacion) prepared by the provinces' Project Preparation Unit. According to this program, the
government has two major educational objectives: (i) to improve educational quality and increase
coverage; and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity .
10.  In order to improve educational quality and increase coverage the province plans to: (i)
provide textbooks, as well as other instructional materials; (ii) train human resources; (iii)
strengthen an open and distance education program; (iv) update the curriculum; (v) constuct,
rehabilitate, and complete works in schools; and (vi) provide basic school equipment.
11.  In order to improve institutional capacity the province plans to: (i) establish modern
administrative organizations with efficient norms and procedures; (ii) develop educational and
financial planning capacity; (iii) develop a management information system; (iv) develop a
student assessment system; (v) develop a program to maintain the sector's infrastructure; and
(vi) construct regional offices.
IV.SUBPROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
12.   The proposed subproject has an estimated cost of US$ 23.3 million, including
contingencies, and would consist of three components: (i) an educational quality improvement
component; (ii) an institutional strengthening component; and (iii) an infrastructure improvement
component.
13.   Educational Quality Improvement (US$ 7.2 million with contingencies, or 31% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Provision of Textbooks, Reading and Instructional Materials. The project
would provide learning materials such as textbooks, libraries, laboratories, atlases
and dictionaries to public schools. Textbooks covering basic disciplines such as
mathematics, language/grammar, biology and history/geography would be
distributed in grades one through four of secondary school for use through school
libraries. The project would finance the formation of 133 school libraries
including an estimated 60,000 textbooks plus furniture for their storage.
Furthermore, an estimated 5,000 atlases would be distributed along with some
2,000 maps and 50 sets of audiovisual equipment. Lastly, the project would
support the delivery of approximately 200 basic science laboratories used for
teaching natural sciences.
(b)   Training of Human Resources. The project would provide funding for seminars
and distance courses aimed at improving teacher and director effectiveniess and
upgrading their skills in: (a) appropriate use of textbooks, libraries, and other
learning materials financed by the Bank; (b) pedagogical planning, monitoring,
and evaluation; and (c) school and classroom management. The project would
finar.ce: the design and production of training materials, as well as the provision
of learning materials, multi.-media equipment and workshops for teachers and
directors. The pre-and in-service teacher training schools operating in the



- 129 -                              Annex J
Province and the country will be invited to participate in designing and providing
the required training events. The project would finance approximately US$45,000
of local technical assistance for the preparation of guidelines, training materials
and seminars; and US$ 10,000 for foreign technical assistance for assistance in the
preparation of the contents of the training courses. Training for the use of
textbooks, libraries and other learning materials would be targeted to
approximately 25,000 teachers, directors tand supervisors.
(c)   Strengthening of an Open and Distance Education Program. The project will
provide funding to the Sistema Provincial de Teleducaci6n y Desarrollo for
increasing the coverage and quality of education for the adult population. The
project will support: (i) adjustments to its normative framework to allow a better
articulation with the formal secondary system; (ii) training of educational
assistants (EA) in the appropriate use of multimedia equipment, books, guides and
other learning materials; and (iii) development of updated multimedia and didactic
materials. Specifically, the project would finance: approximately US$10,000 for
local technical assistance and about US$5,000 for foreign technical assistance;
provision of over 29,000 texts and study guides; training for over 400 teachers
and administrative personnel; cost of fares and per diems for training activities.
(d)   Upgrading of Curriculum. The project would support an "estudio de situaci6n'
of existing curriculum within traditional schools, including those transferred from
the national government with the aim of producing necessary basic information
needed for decisions related to the extension of the reform and/or curriculum
organization within the guidelines of the new federal law, as well as technical
assistance to fine-tune a proposed updated curriculum. Specifically, the project
would finance: about US$80,000 for local technical assistance and US$20,000 for
foreign technical assistance; manuals and dissemination activities; and study tours
and seminars.
14.  Institutional Stgthening (USS 8.9 million with contingencies, or 38%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Establishment of Modern Administrative Organizations with Efficient Norms
and Procedures. At the central level (MCE), the project would help strengthen
the normative, policy regulatory, and conductive functions by: (i) providing
technical assistance to better define the organizational structures and distribution
of responsibilities between MCE and Consejo General de Educaci6n (CGE); and
(ii) simplifying administrative procedures through the development of operational
manuals, procedures and monitoring; and (iii) defining a human resource policy.
To implement these activities, the project would train administrative personnel in
critical functions. Before implementing these activities, the project would finance
a Productivity Study to detect bottlenecks and gaps in the sector's norms and
procedures as well as inefficiencies in the use of human and physical resources.
This study would be carried out during the first twelve months of the project and



- 130 -                             Annex J
would subsequently serve as the basis for a detailed action plan for reforming the
operations of the MCE and CGE. The result and recommendations of these
studies would be presented to the Bank for its review and comments. Once the
action plans are agreed upon between the MCE, CGE and the Bank, this
subcomponent would support a special grant fund to carry out activities (i), (ii)
and (iii) above. The project would finance: approximately US$125,000 of
technical assistance for carrying out the productivity study; and a US1.Om fund
for carrying out action plans arising from the study to carry out activities (i), (ii)
and (iii).
(b)   Development of Educational and Financial Planning Capacity. The project
would support technical assistance and training to develop an effective planning
unit capable of designing and implementing strategies to improve physical, human
and physical resource allocation. By the end of the project the planning unit
should be capable of: (a) reviewing system conditions and performance, forecast
enrollment changes, and employ basic planning models to project changing
demands in the system and necessary policies; (b) effectively carry out budgeting
and financing procedures to ensure adequate programming, expenditure, and
control of the provincial education resources. Specifically, the project would
finance: around US$20,000 of technical assistance; approximately 10 PCs along
with printers and other communications equipment; publications and dissemination
activities; vehicles for supervising activities throughout the province; and
recurrent costs consisting of operating expenses.
(c)   Development of a Management Information System  (MIS). To design,
implement, and sustain a MIS that has links to the National Information Network
and the Provincial Information Network, the project would finance: approximately
US$80,000 for local technical assistance; acquisition of approximately 420 PC
computers, along with printers, FAXes, modems and other communication
equipment for the implementation of an information network; training courses for
450 managers, education planners and operators; publications and dissemination
activities; costs of fares and per diems for the above training activities; and
operating costs.
(d)   Development of a Student Assessment System (SAS). To design, implement,
and sustain a SAS network with links to the Federal Government and other
Provinces, the project would finance: approximately US$5,000 in local technical
assistance; around US$50,000 for foreign technical assistance; study tours for
approximately 20 technical staff; approximately 100 textbooks and other
publications for training purposes; acquisition of approximately 10 PC computers,
along with printers, FAXes, modems and other communication equipment; and
recurrent costs consisting of existing personels' salaries.
(e)   Program to Maintain the Sector's Infrastructure. To maintain the province's
secondary schools the project will finance a training program for the school's



- 131-                              Annex I
custodial staff. Specifically, the project will finance: training for approximately
225 custodial staff; approximately 300 sets of training and didactic materials; and
over 100 maintenanc kits for storage and use in the schools.
15.  Infrastructure Improvement (US$ 5.8 million with contingencies, or 25%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   School Construction, Rehabilitation and Completions. The project would
finance the construction, expansion, and rehabilitation of secondary schools to
meet the demands of the rapidly growing secondary school aged population and
improve teaching conditions. More specifically, the project would finance: (i)
construction of approximately 2 new schools in urban marginal areas with a
capacity for over 1,800 new students; and (ii) rehabilitation of approximately 28
schools in high density urban areas. Additionally, the project would finance
completion of six schools were works were prematurely abandoned.
(b)   Provision of Basic School Equipment. The project would finance the provision
of basic school equipment such as chairs, desks, blackboards, and storage
cabinets to all of the new schools plus all of the schools targeted in the provision
of textbooks components. Specifically, it is estimated that over 12,500 pieces of
furniture would be distributed.
(c)   Construction of Regional OMces. To facilitate the proces of administrative
decentralization and to improve implementation, monitoring, and evaluation
capacity in areas such human and financial resource management, the project will
finance construction of 5 Regional Offices.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMWENTATION
16.  The province proposes to create a small Provincial Project Coordination Unit -PPCU- (US$1.3
million with contingencies, or 6% of total subproject cost) to assist the implementation of the
subproject. The PPCU would be located in the planning departament of the Ministry of Education. The
unit would be staffed with high-level professionals, technicians and support staff. Specifically the PPCU
would employ 1 general coordinator, 4 senior level professionals, 2 technical staff and 3 support staff,
to carry out the functions and responsibilities ascribed to each provincial PCU.



- 132 -                             Annex K
ANNEX K: NEUQUEN SUBPROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.    Neuquen with a population of 388,939 in 1991 is the 17th most populous province in
Argentina and with 94,078 square kilometers the 13th in terms of size. The province experienced
the country's highest rate of intercensal growth, nearly 60 percent, between 1980 and 1991.
Overall, Neuquen has 16 Departments and 29 Municipalities. Per capita income in 1985 was
US$2,972 or 3rd highest relative to other provinces.
2.    Enrollment, Teachers and Schools. In 1992 a total of 132,985 students were enrolled
at all levels of education. Enrollment in a total of 95 secondary schools was 30,492, of which
22,029 were enrolled in 74 schools that have always been provincial and 8,463 (27%) were
enrolled in 21 former national schools that were transferred. The province employed 2,932
teachers in 1992, of whom 1,013 were transferred with the national schools. There are 26
private secondary schools in Neuquen with enrollment of approximately 2,900 or slightly less
than ten percent of total secondary enrollment. Table K. 1 shows enrollment, teachers and
schools in formerly national as well as provincial schools. In 1993, one new secondary school
was created and secondary enrollment rose to 31,383.
Table K.1
NEUQUEN: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
Secondary Education (Grades 8-12/13)
Enrollment      Teachers         Schools
Provincial       22029            1919             74
Transferred       8463            1013             21
Total             30492           2932             95
Source: 'Diagn6sticos y Anexos Estadfsticos Provinciales, 1992'
3.    Educational Quality and EMclency. The net enrollment rate of individuals in the 15-19
year old population was 36% in 1980 and 55% in 1991. Low net enrollment in Neuquen is a
manifestation of low internal efficiency in the system expressed by high repetition and drop-out
rates which average 13% and 56%, respectively. Drop-out is very high, especially among
technical and agricultural schools, perhaps reflecting the poor curricular orientation of these
schools and weak articulation with the private sector. With regard to completion rates, it is
estimated that less than half of all students entering the cycle finish secondary school.
4.    Sector Productivity. The province has recently reorganized its Educational Council,
which is a semi-autonomous entity within the provincial government organizations, but still
needs to establish norms and regulations for operation of the new system. The entire provincial
government is undergoing a major reform, which will identify staff redundancies and either



- 133 -                               Annex K
retrain and re-allocate staff or arrange for separation from provincial employment. The
education sector has already reduced the numbers of administrative staff but current regulations
are conducive to over staffing in the schools, particularly among "preceptors" and other non-
teaching staff. Student-to-staff ratios were 13.9 among all schools and 8.8 to one among
secondary schools in 1993. These figures are low in comparison with other Latin American
countries especially at the secondary level. Provincial officials have indicated awareness of this
problem and have taken or made definite plans to take steps to overcome it, including legislation
and programs at both the provincial and sector levels to rationalize staffing, eliminate excessive
use of substitutes to replace regular staff, reduce supervisory staff, check certain abuses of leave
and other measures to increase efficiency.
5.    Steps taken by the Provincial Government to improve sector productivity include
implementation of Law 2003 "Reform of the State" which promotes privatization and
decentralization of services. Under this law's framework, the Ministry of education has
transfered its printing and typewriter repair services to the private sector, resulting in the
voluntary retirement of 8 and 4 public servants, respectively. On another hand, Law 2025
established a sector wide regime for early retirement, voluntary retirement, and administrative
restructuring which resulted in: voluntary retirement for 75 persons; retirement of 155 persons;
and abolishment of 200 non-productive posts. Other actions taken during the last two years
include: transfer of 100 teachers from administrative to classroom duties; elimination of all non-
pedagogic posts for teaching personnel; abolishment of all non-school expenditures for teachers
(for example, expenditures on the province's Police Academy); rationalization of the school
system's pedagogic supervisors including elimination of new vacancies and hiring of substitutes,
resulting in a reduction of 25 posts; improved deployment policies for teachers which limits
transfers to only those schools with openings; implementation of a data base to control
absenteeism and supervise staff on medical leave; and a credit system for hiring substitutes
which transfer resources directly to the school yet limits their hiring only for periods beyond
three days.
I.   MAIN ISSUES
6.    Neuquen faces several critical problems which need to be overcome for it to effectively
fulfill its new function of delivering all public secondary education. These problems are mainly:
(i) poor educational quality; (ii) weak institutional capacity; and (iii) inadequate educational and
administrative infrastnrcture.
7.    Poor Quality of Elducation. Neuquen's low internal efficiency, expressed by high
repetition and drop-out rates and a low completion rate are largely a consequence of: (i) lack of
training for teachers, supervisors and school directors; (ii) outdated and 'chaotic' curricula
characterized by excessive number of programs, many of which are not implemented, which in
turn affect the quality of textbooks and teachiing materials used; (iii) lack of educational
equipment such as computers and educational software; and (iv) inadequate access to secondary
school.
8.    Weak InstitutionRl Capacity. Following the recent transfer of students, personnel and
physical facilities key issues which affect the sector's management and organizational capacity



- 134 -                               Annex K
have been highlighted. These problems are mainly related to: (i) deficient administrative
organizations and inefficient norms and procedures; (ii) lack of school councils to foster local
decision making; (iii) lack of clear and efficient human resource policy to deal with low student-
teacher ratios and a high proportion of non-teaching staff; (iv) lack of modem educational and
financial planning capacities for effectively carrying out necessary budget programming,
expenditure and control functions or formulating policies and priorities for the sector; (v) lack
of a student assessment system; and (vi) deficient management information system.
9.    Deficient Infrastructure. Neuquen's infrastructure is currently  inadequate for
administrative and educational purposes. The main problems are: (i) a shortage of adequate
physical space for serving the secondary school aged population due to small schools, many of
which are located far from the student's homes and/or wrongly designed for school use; and (ii)
rented administrative buildings which are costly and dispersed causing uncoordinated
administration, duplication of functions, and inefficient use of resources.
m. PROVINCIAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
10.   Neuquen's strategy for the education sector has been recently summarized in the project
document Education Sector Investment Program (Programa Sectorial de Inversion en Educacion,
Febrero de 1994) prepared by the province's Project Preparation Unit. According to this
program, the government has two major objectives in the education sector: (i) to improve
educational quality and increase coverage; and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity.
11.  In order to improve educational quality and increase coverage the province plans to: (i)
upgrade the skills of teachers, directors, and supervisors and improve management at the school
level; (ii) update the curriculum and teaching materials; (iii) provide information equipment to
the schools; and (iv) construct new school facilities.
12.   In order to improve institutional capacity the province plans to: (i) establish modem
administrative organizations and efficient organizational norms and procedures; (ii) decentralize
and strengthen decision making at the school level; (iii) develop a management information
system; (iv) develop a student assessment system; and (v) construct a consolidated administrative
headquarter.
IV. SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION
13.   The proposed subproject has an estimated cost of US$ 35.0 million, including
contingencies, and would consist of three components: (i) an educational quality improvement
component; (ii) an institutional strengthening component; and (iii) an infrastructure improvement
component. Below is a brief description of each with its subcomponents.
14.   Educational Quality Improe  (JSS 16.5 million with contingencies, or 47% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Training of Human Resources. Provincial authorities assign high priority to in-
service training of teachers, supervisors, and school directors. Teacher training
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



- 135 -                             Annex K
would be in general methods of improving instruction in the main subject areas
of language, mathematics and science; school directors would be trained in
improved management of establishments and prepared for the changes that will
take place as authority and budget resources are delegated to the schools.
Training would take place in decentralized 'Centers for Continuing Training",
now being created with the province's resources, in a mode combining direct in-
service instruction plus individual study, as well as in the schools themselves. The
project would finance: approximately US$ l.Om of local technical assistance for
preparation of guidelines, training materials and seminars; training for over 6,000
teachers in the main subject areas; teaching and training materials; operating costs
and personnel; and travel costs and perdiems.
(b)   Updating of Curriculum and Teaching Materials. The province proposes to
correct the curricular problems previously described, instituting a system of
continual curriculum development and updating, with emphasis on the central
subject areas of language, mathematics and science. Teachers, parents, and
community leaders would participate in a continuing process of curriculum
updating and improvement. There would be heavy emphasis on making improved
teaching materials and textbooks available in the schools. In the later years of the
project, outputs of this process would provide inputs into both teacher training
activities and the system for measuring achievement. Specifically, the project
would finance: approximately US$250,000 of local technical assistance; payment
of the equivalent of about 20 teachers for some 800 staff/months for extra hours
of involvement in curriculum committees and related activities; study tours for
approximately 30 staff; training activities for approximately 6,500 teachers; travel
and perdiems for training activities; and operating expenses including personnel.
(c)   Provision of Educational and Computing Equipment to the Schools. The
project will finance equipment of science laboratories and school libraries for 82
schools. It will also implement a model of applied science education for
polimodal schools on a pilot basis, including international technical assistance,
teacher training and procurement of teaching equipment for applied mathematics
and natural sciences. Neuquen proposes to introduce computers for educational
purposes to upper-level secondary classrooms, proceeding on a gradual basis and
drawing upon successful experiences elsewhere. Over the life of the project, this
subcomponent would finance: approximately 500 PC's, along with printers and
other communications equipment; over 350 educational modules for studying the
physical and natural sciences; around 85 school libraries; and other equipment
such as videorecorders, slide proyectors, and educational videos.
15.  Institutional Srengtbening (USS 4.9 million with contingencies, or 14%  of total
subproject cost):
(a) Updating of Modern Norms and Procedures and Development of Planning
Capacity. The project would support the following activities: (i) design and
implementation of modern and efficient organizational organizations for the



- 136 -                             Annex K
Ministry of Education which would foster clear and efficient decision making; (ii)
support the establishment of more efficient procedures and updated norms to
regulate sector activities; and (iii) development of a modem financial management
system capable of effectively carrying out programming, expenditure and control
functions. The project would finance: approximately $190,000 of local technical
assistance; training for around 1,050 staff; costs of fares and per diems for the
above training activities; and recurrent costs consisting of operating expenses.
(b)   Decentralization and Strengthening of School Management. An important
aspect of Neuquens' decentralization program involves decentralization of
authority to the level of individual secondary school, including the creation of
community-based school councils with clear and efficient operational norms and
procedures, extensive training for school Directors and Assistant Directors and
related activities. To this end the project would finance: approximately
US$150,000 of local technical assistance; training for over 2,900 school directors
and assistant directors; costs of fares and per diems for the above training
activities and operating costs.
(c)   Development of a Management Information System (MIS). The project would
support the design and implementation of a MIS with links to the Federal
Network as well as a Provincial Network and that would: (i) program, control
and inspect human, physical, and financial resources; and (ii) plan and monitor
educational indicators and outcomes. Specifically the project would finance:
approximately US$600,000 of local technical assistance; training courses for
about 1,600 managers, operators, educational planners; costs of fares and per
diems for the above training activities; and approximately 500 PC computers
along with communications equipment including printers, FAXes, and network
with accompanying software and furniture; and publications and dissemination
activities.
(d)   Development of a Student Assessment System (SAS). To design, implement,
and sustain a SAS network with links to the Federal Government and other
Provinces, the project would finance: approximately US$5,000 of local technical
assistance; around US$5,000 of foreign technical assistance; approximately 5 PC
computers, printers, Fax and network with accompanying software and furniture;
training courses for about 480 staff through out the course of the project; and
travel and per diem expenses for the above training activities.
16.  Infrastructure Improvement (US$ 12.3 million with contingencies, or 35%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Construction of New School Buildings. Five schools with a totai enrollment of
approximately 2,100 are currently housed in rented or borrowed spaces that are
too small, located far from the students' homes and/or wrongly designed for
school use. The province proposes to build and furnish and equip approximately
five new buildings to house these already-existing school populations. Based on



- 137 -                             Annex K
estimated costs of US$600 per square meter, the total cost of constructing the
schools would be approximately US$5.7 million, to be implemented in two phases
during the first three years of the project.
(b)   Construction of Consolidated Administrative Headquarters.  As noted,
administrative activities are widely dispersed, which entails considerable
inefficiency due to lost time, difficult communications and some duplication of
support staff and equipment. Rental costs are also very high in Neuquen and
there are no single buildings available for rent that would be adequate to house
the Education Council. The proposed headquarters building would replace rental
space in nine widely-dispersed buildings. Provincial authorities calculate that, on
the basis of savings in rent, plus conservative estimates of savings in
transportation and telephone costs between the present buildings, savings would
approximate $600,000 per year. This estimate of savings does not take into
account gains in staff time and efficiency that would result from having all
functions located in one place. Total cost would be approximately $4.7 million.
V.   IMPLEMENTATION
17.   The province proposes to create a small Provincial Project Coordination Unit -PPCU-
(US$ 1.3 million with contingencies, or 4% of total subproject cost) to assist the implementation
of the subproject. The PPCU would be located in the management subsecretariat of the Ministry
of Education. The unit would be staffed by a core team of high-level professionals, technicians
and support staff. Specifically, the PPCU would employ 1 general coordinatior, 3 senior level
professionals, 3 technical staff and 3 support staff to carry out the functions and responsibilities
ascribed to each provincial PCU.



-138 -                               Annex L
ANNEX L: RIO NEGRO SUBPROJECT
I.    BACKGROUND
1.    Rio Negro, with a population of 506,795 in 1991, is the 15th largest province in
Argentina and with 203,013 square kilometers the 4th largest in terms of size. Between 1980
and 1991, Rio Negro population grew at a rate of 2.6 percent, roughly twice the national
average. The Province has 13 Regional Departments and 38 Municipalities. Per capita income
in 1985 was US$2,111 or 7th highest relative to the 24 other provinces.
2.    Enrollment, Teachers and Schools. In 1993, 154,919 students were enrolled in the
school system, with 39,713 (25.6%) enrolled in secondary education. Within secondary
education, about 90 percent were enrolled in public schools, including both provincial and
transferred schools, with the remainder in private schools. Data about distribution of enrollment
by the different tracks of secondary system are not available for Rio Negro. As shown in Table
L. 1, Rio Negro experience a moderate impact as a result of decentralization of secondary
schools. Of present secondary students (12,785 out of 39,713) are in the former federal schools
transferred under the Law 24.049/92. Therefore the state had already taken responsibility for
providing more than 50% of secondary education enrollments before the decentralization of
national secondary schools but also had to absorb a considerable number of new students and
teachers.
Table L.1
RIO NEGRO: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
Secondary Education (Grades 8-12/13)
Enrollment     Teachers   Schools
Provincial         26928          5085        106
Transferred        12785           984        20
Total              39713          6069        126
Source: Provincia de Rio Negro - Documento Sintesis y Diagnostico, Febrero
de 1994 
Note: Of 106 total provincial schools, 44 are reformed', 62 are
'traditional' as are all the transferred schools.
3.    Education Quality and EMciency Indicators. The net enrollment rate of individuals
in the 13-17 year old population rose from 32 percent in 1980 to 57 percent In 1991. This
increase partly reflects increases in the average completion of primary school which rose the
transition rate from primary to secondary education from 39% for the 1970-76 population to
72% for the 1986-92 population. In 1986 the state implemented a broad reform of secondary
education which separated schools among 'reformed' or Ciclo Biico Unificado-CBU and Ciclo



- 139 -                              Annex L
Superior Modalizado-CBS schools and 'non-reformed' or traditional schools not converted.
Available statistics on efficiency thus distinguish between these two types of schools. In essence,
the CBU gives emphasis to attainment of basic knowledge, despite being organized by academic
areas, while the CSM has a common core focusing on basic disciples as well as a diversified
tracks.
4.    The thrust behind this reform was to improve education quality .Nevertheless, available
indicators raise doubts about its possible outcome: repetition rates in 1992 averaged 17.5%
within the CBU of reformed schools and 17.19% in traditional schools. Overall, repetition rates
have risen from 10.1% to 17.3% between 1988 and 1992. Coupled with drop-out rates which
range between 46% and 82%, depending on the tracks of secondary schools yet roughly the
same among "reformed" and traditional schools, it represents high wastage of financial, physical,
and human resources.
5.    Sector Productivity. Regarding sector productivity, Rio Negro is better off than other
provinces, nevertheless, it still leaves much to be desired. Roughly the student-teacher ratio at
the secondary level is 9.66 students per teacher. Nevertheless, when this calculation is adjusted
to a full-time-euivalent basis (30 hours of classes per week) the number of students per teacher
increases to 12 which is comparable to the national average. The difference between these two
numbers is explained by the large number of teachers working less than full time schedules,
and/or the teachers giving classes in different schools without controls to account the total
numbers of hours weekly worked. This may be a manifestation of poor personnel management
worsened by unavailability of reliable personnel data. Since 1986 there has been a steady
decrease in student/teacher ratios due in part to the province's efforts to extend coverage to rural
areas. Besides low student-teacher ratios, other indicators of over-staffing are ratios of non-
teaching staff to teaching staff, which are approximately 2 to 1 in Rio Negro.
6.    To improve productivity, the Provincial Government has taken several measures. First,
it has initiated a program of teacher licences, assigned on a competitive basis, whose aim is to
foster teacher stability and quality (Resolution 1356/91) and reduce part-time teachers. This
program intends to facilitate supervision and monitoring of teaching staff. Second, the Ministry
of Education has reformed the province's teacher statute with the aim of "professionalizing"
teachers and establishing a pay scale which rewards productivity. Lastly, the Ministry has begun
to rationalize educational expenditures though reductions in administrative and "political" posts.
II.   MAIN ISSIrES
7.    Rio Negro faces several critical problems which need to be overcome for it to effectively
fulfill its new functions of delivering all public secondary education. These problems are mainly
related to: (.) poor educationai quality which results in low efficiency expressed by indicators
such as high repetition and drop-out; (ii) weak institutional capacity; and (iii) inadequate physical
infrastructure.
8.    Poor Educational Quality. Rio Negro's low quality and internal efficiency indicators
(para. 3) are mainly due to: (i) an outdated curriculum and lack of training for human resources;



- 140 -                             Annex L
and (ii) lack of program to promote and improve reading and writing among teachers and
students.
9.    Weak Institutional Capacity. Rio Negro's education institutions have suffered from
political discontinuity as well as numerous efforts to reform its organizations from the top down,
including recent regionalization. In this light, the latest effort which focuses resources and
decision making towards the school and local board level, following bottom up initiatives, are
welcomed signs which need to be supported. There are several problems though which need to
be corrected for the central, local/zonal boards, and schools to function more effectively. These
problems are mainly: (i) overly centralized decision making at the center while discouraging
local authority and initiative; (ii) lack of modem educational and financial planning to
appropriately carry out basic budget and financial programming, expenditure and control
functions; and (iii) weak management information system to provide timely and reliable data on
human, financial and physical resources, and a weak student assessment system.
10.  Inadequate Physical Infrastructure. Rio Negro currently lacks necessary administrative
and educational facilities. More specifically, the main problems are: (i) severe deterioration of
schools expressed by misfunctioning electric, gas, and water fixtures; (ii) inadequate central
administration building, currently dispersed throughout several buildings provoking
fragmentation and some duplication of functions; and (iii) lack of adequate buildings for use by
new zone or local school boards.
m. PROVINCIAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
11.   Rio Negro's strategy for the education sector has been recently summarized in the project
document Education Sector Investment Program (Programa Sectorial de Inversion en Educacion)
prepared by the province's Project Preparation Unit. According to this program, the government
has three major educational objectives: (i) to improve educational quality; and (ii) to strengthen
institutional capacity.
12.  In order to improve educational quality the province plans to: (i) update the curriculum
and train human resources; and (ii) develop a reading and writing program.
13.  In order to improve institutional capacity the province plans to: (i) support
decentralization of the education sector; (ii) develop educational and financial planning capacity;
and (iii) develop a management information system, and a student assessment system.
IV. SUBPROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
14.   The proposed subproject has an estimated cost of USS 33.8 million, including
contingencies and would consist of three components: (i) an educational quality improvement
component; (ii) an institutional strengthening component; and (iii) an infrastructure improvement
component. Below is a brief description of each with its subcomponents.



- 141 -                             Annex L
15.   Educational Ouality Improvement (US$ 4.6 million with contingencies, or 14% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Updating of Curriculum and Training of Human Resources. In order to better
planify the Human Resources Training the project would support a study to
evaluate the effectivenness of "reformed" and "not reformed" schools. Based on
the findings of this study the project would provide funding for the development
and implementation of training aimed at improving teachers, pedagogical
coordinators and school principals capacity that will be need for the new
organization of secondary schools and curriculum planning following the
guidelines of the new Federal Law of Education. The training will be different
for daily (reformed and not reformed) schools and nightly (not reformed) schools
and would be targeted to: (i) content of basic disciplines; (ii) effective classroom
organization and management; (iii) school management and (iv) development and
implementation of school based projects at school level; (vi) appropriate use of
reading books, teachers guides, libraries and other learning materials or
equipment, which would be provided by the project; (vii) pedagogical planning,
monitoring and evaluation. The project would finance: the design, production,
and distribution of didactic materials materials; and staff training on basic subject
disciplines and new curricular contents (polimodal). Specifically the project would
finance: approximately 50 school-based grants of approximately US$10,000 each;
training for over 13,000 staff including teachers, directors and pedagogical
supervisors; costs of fares and perdiems for the training activities; approximately
US$400,000 of technical assistance; over 2,500 school libraries; development of
new didactic materials; approximately 80,000 new textbooks, guides and other
learning materials;  and recurrent costs consisting of office materials and
operating expenditures.
(b)   Development of Reading and Writing Skills Program. This program would
foster, along with the provision of learning materials, the improvement of reading
and writing skills. This program would support development of school based
programs to improve reading and writing through activities such as production of
learning materials, teacher training. More specifically the project would finance:
approximately US$150,000 of local technical assistance; training for about 2,000
including teachers, directors, coordinators, and supervisors; and approximately
34,000 textbooks.
16.  Institutional Strengthening (US$ 10.5 million with contingencies, or 31%  of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Decentralization of the Educational Sector. In order to overcome some of the
problems outlined above, the project would support: the design and
implementation of a more decentralized and efficient organizational organizations
which delegates authority to the zonal/local boards and schools; the design and
implementation of human and financial decentralized mananagment systems at the
central, zonal/local and school levels; the development of clear norms and



- 142 -                             Annex L
simplified procedures at all levels; improvement of pedagogical supervisory and
monitoring functions at all levels; strenghthning of school management through
the training of school boards participants for the development and implementation
of institutional projects; the development of a cytizenship participation program
to promote the sensizitation and participation of community in the education
governance at zonal/local and school levels. The project would finance:
approximately US$1.5m of technical assistance; approximately 230 staff trained;
over 5,000 training materials such as guides and textbooks; around 10 vehicles;
approximately 200 PCs with printers and other communications equipment; costs
of fares and perdiems for the above training activities; recurrent costs including
salaries and operating expenditures; and basic fumiture for the zonal or local
boards.
(b)   Development of Educational and Fmancial Planning Capacity. The project
would support the development of a modern financial management system capable
of carrying out programming, expenditure and control functions and updating of
procurement, inspection and distribution procedures and manuals. Activities in
this subcomponent would be closely integrated with development of a
management information system. The project would finance: approximately
US$20,000 of local technical assistance; approximately 50 grants of US$1,000 for
the Institutional Councils (Consejos Institucionales); training for over 550 staff;
over 400 PCs with printers, faxes, and other communications equipment installed;
and operating expenses.
(c)   Development of a Management Information System (MIS) and Improvement
of a Student Assessment System (SAS). To enhance the design of an improved
and widespread MIS linked to the National Information Network and the
Provincial Information Network including zonal/local boards and individual
schools and improve the existing SAS and link it to the Federal Government and
other Provinces, the project would finance: approximately US$250,000 of
technical assistance; training for approximately 550 staff on management skills
and use of information systems; around 5,000 guides and textbooks for training
purposes; costs of fares and per diems for the above training activities; recurrent
costs including salaries and operation expenses; approximately 100 PC computers,
printers and other communications equipment; and dissemination activities.
17. Infrastructure Improvement (UJS$ 16.4 million with contingencies, or 49% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Rehabllitation and Additions to School Facllities. The project would aim to
correct the existing infrastructure deficiencies previously outlined by rehabilitating
approximately 70 school buildings. Furthermore, the proyect would finance
additions to two schools to enable them to meet existing demand.



- 143 -                             Annex L
(b)   Construction of Consolidated Administrative Headquarter. The project will
finance the construction of a central administration building for provincial
education management;
(c)   Construction of Zone or Local Administration Facilities. To facilitate the
process of administrative decentralization and improve planning, monitoring and
control the project would finance the construction of approximately 9 buildings
for development of zone or local school boards.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
18.   The province proposes to create a small Provincial Project Coordination Unit -PPCU-
(US$2.2 million with contingencies, or 7% of total subproject cost) to assist the implementation
of the subproject. The PPCU would report straighth to the Board of Directors of the Ministry
of Education. The unit would be staffed by a core team of high-level professionals, technicians
and support staff. Specifically, the PPCU would employ 1 general coordinator, 3 senior level
professionals, 6 technical staff and 2 support staff to carry out the functions and responsabilities.



- 144 -                             Annex M
ANNEX M: SANTA FE SUBPROJECT
I.    BACKGROUND
1.    Santa Fe with a population of 2,787,809 in 1991, is the 3rd largest province in
Argentina, and with 133,007 square kilometers the 10th largest in terms of size. The province
has 19 Departments and 48 Municipalities. Per capita income in 1985 was US$2,163 or 6th
highest relative to other provinces.
2.    Enrollment, Teachers and Schools. In 1992, 807,373 students were enrolled in the
school system of which 157,609 (20.9%) enrolled in secondary education. Within secondary
education the private sector plays an important role in the provision of services with 30.1 % of
total enrollment. Of the total secondary level population, 48,701 (30.9%) enrolled in the
Bachiller track, 64,304 (40.8%) in the Commercial track, 40,617 (25.8%) in the Technical
track, 3,306 (2.1 %) in the Agrarian track and 629 (0.4%) in the Artistic track. Table M. 1 below
provides more information.
Table M.1
SANTA FE: Enrollment, Teachers, and Schools
Secondary Education (Grades 8-12/13)
Enrollment*   Teachers**    Schools*
Provincial           87,803        6,673        456
Transferred          69,628        8,100        222
Total                157,431      14,773        678
Source: 'Direcci6n General de Plamificaci6n Educativa del Ministerio de
Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Ft, 1992'
*1993
**1992
3.    Quality and Efriciency Indicators. The enrollment rate of individuals in the 13-18
year old population was 57.4% in 1991. Annual enrollment growth at this level average 7%
(public sector only) during the period 1984-1991 compared to 3% for the total education
system. The internal efficiency of secondary education is very low with a drop out rate of
54% in the public system and 32% in the private system. In the technical stream the situation
is worse given 80% of all pupils abandon school before the end of the cycle. No information
is available on repetition rates, yet these can be assumed to be high given the high drop-out
rates.
4.    Sector Productivity. In secondary, the productivity measured by the number of
students by teacher is very low. In the public school system there is 6.38 students by teacher
(in the private sector the number is similar) compared to 12 in the whole system. In technical
education there is 4 pupils per teacher. However these numbers should be taken with



- 145 -                             Annex M
prudence. Due to the small size of the schools and the wideness of the curriculum many
teachers teach in several schools and the statistical system of the province can hardly give
reliable data. The absenteeism is important and substitutes represent 15% of the salary cost
of the province. In the past, low productivity could be attributed to weak management and
insufficient mechanisms to supervise personnel.
5.    The Provincial Government is taking concrete steps to correct the sector's low
productivity: In 1990, it put in effect the Law of Economic Emergency and Reform of the
State whose main objective was to fiscally cleanse the provincial government and rationalize
it. Two Decrees passed in 1991 which form part of this Law had a direct effect on the
education sector. Decree 654/1991 froze hiring and promotions of public sector personnel
and invalidated changes from temporary to permanent staff carried out during 1991. Decree
66/91 abolished all temporary "political" posts exercised by teaching staff. Furthermore, this
Decree left without effect personel designated as interim or substitute which does not hold
classroom duties. As a result of the above Decrees, the Ministry of Education reduced its
administrative and "political" staff by 400, or approximately 30%, if 1990 is used as a base
year.
6.    To improve productivity at the school level (e.g. reduce absenteeism, "ghost"
teachers, etc.) the province has put together several measures. The "Credencial Unica
Docente' which is currently operating in Rosario and Santa FP, provides a mechanism for
controling absenteeism and double reporting. Under this program, a record sheet is
maintained for each teacher which includes hers/his labor history and qualifications- hiring
and payment is recorded on this sheet as well as an evaluation of performance. The Ministry
is also implementing a pilot program (Decree No. 3564/92) which requires "sick" teachers to
obtain medical clearance from Ministry approved doctors. The Plan to Reduce Absenteeism,
which will use the above mentioned mechanisms, and is embodied in resolutions 994/93 and
19/94, aims to reduce the use of substitute teachers to no more than 5 percent of permanent
and interim staff over the next two years.
II.   MAIN ISSUES
7.    The decentralization process is aggravating the difficulties the administration of the
province is currently facing to manage the education system. The weakest areas are: (i) poor
educational quality expressed through high repetition and drop-out rates; (ii) weak
institutional capacity; and (iii) inadequate facilities.
8.    Poor Educational Quality. As previously discussed, Santa F6 has poor quality and
internal efficiency indicators (para. 3). This is mainly due to: (i) inadequate provision of
educational materials and equipment; (ii) lack of training for human resources; and (iii) an
outdated curriculum.
9.    Weak Institutional Capacity. The recent transfer of secondary education from the
federal government has accentuated management and organizational problems at different
levels. The provincial Ministry of Education assumed control of a system nearly the same in
terms of enrollments as its previous size. This has resulted in organizational and management



- 146 -                             Annex M
problems reflected by: (i) inefficient administrative procedures and norms and an overly
centralized framework; (ii) lack of educational and financial planning; and (iii) lack of a
student assessment system.
10.  Inadequate Educational and Administrative Facilities. The deficiency of the
province's school infrastructure and lack of equipment affect the quality of education. Most
of the schools suffer from deterioration and disrepair. On another hand, the province lacks
adequate buildings to accomodate regional offices which will support the in-province
decentralization process.
m.   PROVINCIAL POLICY AND STRATEGY
11.   Santa Fe's strategy for the education sector has been recently summarized in the
document Education Sector Investment Program (Programa Sectorial de Inversion en
Educacion). According to this program, the government has two major educational
objectives: (i) to improve educational quality; and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity.
12.  In order to improve educational quality the province plans to: (a) provide educational
materials and equipment; (b) train human resources; (c) upgrade the curriculum and develop
options for reconverting technical education; and (d) rehabilitate schools.
13.  In order to improve institutional capacity the province plans to: (i) support
administrative reform and decentralization of the sector's institutions; (ii) develop educational
and financial planning capacity; and (iii) develop a student assessment system.
IV. SUBPROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
14.   The proposed subproject has an estimated cost of US$ 25.8 million, including
contingencies and would consist of three components: (i) an educational quality improvement
component; (ii) an institutional strengthening component; and (iii) an infrastructure
improvement component. Below is a brief description of each with its subcomponents.
15.   Educational Quality Improvement (US$ 4.8 million with contingencies, or 19% of
total subproject cost):
(a)   Provision of Educational Materials and Equipment. The project would
provide funding for: (i) textbooks and teaching niatrials; (ii) computers and
printers to support the teaching and learning process; (iii) basic lab equipment
to teach biology, chemistry, physics, science and technology; and (iv) school
desks and chairs. More specifically, the project would finance: over 330,000
textbooks and other didactic materials such as tape players videocassetes and
televisions; approximately 10,00 school desks and some 10,000 chairs for
students; and 8 regional laboratories.



- 147 -                             Annex M
(b)   Training of Human Resources. The project would provide funding for
seminars and distance courses aimed at improving teacher and director
effectiveness and upgrading their skills in: (a) appropriate use of textbooks,
libraries, and other learning materials financed by the Bank; (b) pedagogical
planning, monitoring, and evaluation; and (c) school and classroom
management. The project would finance the design and production of training
materials, as well as the provision of learning materials, multi-media
equipment and workshops for teachers and directors. The pre-and in-service
teacher training schools operating in the Province and the country would be
invited to participate in designing and providing the required training events.
Training for the use of textbooks, libraries and other learning materials would
be targeted to approximately 3,000 teachers and directors. The project would
also finance approximately US$200,000 of local technical assistance to desing
training materials. Lastly, the project would finance operation expenditures to
carry out training seminars.
(c)   Studies on Technical Education Curriculum. The project would support a
study of labor market demands and present options for reconverting technical
tracks under the polimodal cycle. Specifically, the project would finance:
approximately US$200,000 of local technical assistance; and manuals and
training for approximtely 150 staff.
16.  Institutional Strengthening (US$ 6.8 million with contingencies, or 26% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Administrative Reform and Decentralization. The project would support: (i)
the design and implementation of a more decentralized an efficient
organizational organizations at the central level (Ministry), in the six regional
offices which have been created and at the school level; (ii) development of
operational manuals, procedures and monitoring at the central and regional
levels; (iii) training administrative staff in critical functions at the level of the
Ministry and Regional Offices; and (iv) upgrading of managerial skills among
all of secondary schools principals and schools inspectors. Specifically, the
project would finance: approximately US$lm of technical assistance; training
for around 1,500 staff on critical functions; development and reproduction of
operation manuals and training materials; costs of fares and perdiems for the
above training activities; and operating costs.
(b)   Development of Educational and Fmancial Planning Capacity. The project
would support technical assistance and training to develop an effective
planning unit capable of designing and implementing strategies to improve
physical, human and physical resource allocation. By the end of the project the
planning unit should be capable of: (a) reviewing system conditions and
performance, forecast enrollment changes, and employ basic planning models
to project changing demands in the system and necessary policies; (b)
effectively carry out budgeting and financing procedures to ensure adequate



- 148 -                            Annex M
programming, expenditure, and control of the provincial education resources.
Specifically, the project would finance: approximately US$450,000 of local
technical assistance; training for approximately 400 administrative personnel;
training for an estimated 2,500 directors and supervisors; publications and
dissemination activities; and recurrent costs including operating expenses.
(c)   Development of a Student Assessment System (SAS). To design, implement,
and sustain a SAS network with links to the National Government and other
Provinces, the project would finance: a PC computers to process and analyze
achievement data, along with printers, and other communications equipment;
approximately $500,000 of local technical assistance; surveys; test-taking
materials; and recurrent costs consisting of salaries and operating expenses.
17. Infrastructure Improvement (US$ 12.7 million with contingencies, or 49% of total
subproject cost):
(a)   Rehabilitation of School Infrastructure. The project would aim to correct the
existing infrastructure deficiency problems previously outlined by:
rehabilitating roughly 26 transferred schools which are in a severe state of
decay.
(b)   Construction and Rehabilitation of Regional Offices. To facilitate the
process of administrative decentralization and to improve implementation,
monitoring, and evaluation capacity in areas such as information systems
development, teacher training, and provision of learning materials, the project
would finance construction of approximately 5 regional offices and
rehabilitation of 2 existing regional offices.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
18.    The province propose to create a Provincial Project Coordination Unit -PPCU- (US$
1.5 million with contingencies, or 6% of total subproyect cost) located in the planning
department of the Ministry of Education and headed by the Ministry himself. The PPCU
would be staffed by a small core team of high level professional. Specifically the PPCU
would employ 1 executive coordinator, 3 senior professionals, 3 technical staff and 4 support
staff to carry out the functions and responsibilities ascribed to each provincial PCU.



-149-                                        Annex N
ANNEX N: PROJECT COST TABLES
Table N.1.1: Total Project Cost by Component and Main Categories 'I
Loca       Forde          Tota'  % of Toal    % of Fran.
(USS'OOO)
Educational Oualitv Immrovement
Civil Works                                    0            0            0            0%            0%
LAnd                                           0            0            0            0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Conun. Equpmt.           2,001        9,847       11,8S             4%           83%
Furnitre, Tech.Matri. & Equpmt.           28,622        5,984       34,606           13%           17%
Consultnt Services                        18,507          357       18,864            7%            2%
Ganu and Scholaships                       4,422          271        4,693            2%            6%
Incremn. Recurrent Salaries                2.339            0        2,339            1%            0%
Opeating Cost .                            2,697          305        3,002            1%           10%
Project Implementation Costs               1,721            0        8,721            3%            0%
Subtotal                                  67,309       16,763       84,073           31%           20%
Institutional Strenuthenina
Civil Works                                    0            0            0            0%            0%
LaW                                            0            0            0            0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.            1,868        7,167        9,035            3%           79%
Furniture, Teach.MatrL & EqupmtL           2,565          523        3,087            1%           17%
Consultant Services                       29,206         2,080      31,287            12%            7%
Grnts and Scholahips                       5,673        2,2S2        7,925            3%           28%
lncrem. Recurrent Salaries                 2,311            0        2,311            1%            0%
Opeating Costs                             6,419          790        7,208            3%           11%
Project Implementation Costs              23,6S1            0       23,651            9%            0%
Subtotal                                  71,692       12,812       U4,504           31%           15%
Infstructurc Imiprovernen
Civil Works                               49,592        3,t80       53,472           20%            7%
Land                                       2,460            0        2,460            1%            0%
Vehicla, Info. & Comm. Equpmt                296          369          665            0%           56%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt           5,876            5        5,S81            2%            0%
ConsultantSerices                          3,378          261        3,639            1%            7%
Gnnt and Scholarhips                           0            0            0            0%            0%
Incren RecurnentSalkes                         0            0            0            0%            0%
Operting Cost                              8,877            0        8,877            3%            0%
Project Implementation Cost                1,816            0        1,816            1%            0%
Subtotal                                  72,294        4.515       76,809           29%            6%
Proiect Coordination Unit
Civil Works                                    0            0            0            0%            0%
Land                                           0            0            0            0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. A Comm. EqupImt              306          174          480            0%           36%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.             32            1           33            0%            4%
Consultant Services                       19,274          167       19,442            7%            1%
Grnts and Scholrhips                          36            0           36            0%            0%
Incrern. Recurrent Salries                    20            0           20            0%            0%
Operting Costs                               723           23          746            0%            3%
Project Imnplenentation Costa              2,575            0        2,575            1 %           0%
Subtotal                                  22,966          365       23,331            9%            2%
TOTAL COST                               234,262       34,456      268,718          100%           13%
11 Totals include contingencies.



-150-                                         Annex N
Table N.1.2: Total Project Cost by Category of Expenditures 'I/
%of
Local   Foreign     Total      Total
(USS million)
Civil Works                                              49.6       3.9      53.5       20%
Land                                                      2.5       0.0       2.5        1%
Infonmatics & Communications Equipment,                  41.6      24.1      65.6       24%
Vehicles, Furniture, Trining Materials, and
Didactic Materia sEquipment
Consultants Servicea                                     70.4       2.9      73.2       27%
Grants and Scholarships                                  10.1       2.5      12.7        5%
Incremental Recurrent Salaries                            4.7       0.0       4.7        2%
Operting Costs                                           18.7       1.1      19.3        7%
Project Impkmentation Cost                               36.3       0.0      36.3       14%
Total                                                   234.3      34.5     263.7
Table N.1.3: Total Project Cost by Category of Expenditures and Years of
Implementation I/
1224        2       l2       1297       122         1922      Total
Civil Works                                    0.0       10.9      19.1      11.9       7.2         4.3      53.5
Land                                           0.0        1.2       0.1       0.7       0.3         0.1        2.5
Infornatics & Communications Equipment,         0.0      17.4      22.9      13.4       7.0         5.0      65.6
Vehicles, Fumiture, Trining Materials, and
Didactic MaterialslEquipment
Consultants Servies                            5.2       22.2      15.9      11.3       9.3         9.4      73.2
Grnts and Scholanhips                          0.0        1.5       2.6       3.4       2.6         2.7      12.7
Incremental Recufent Salarisn                   0.0       0.5       0.9       1.1       1.2         1.0       4.6
Operating Cosb                                 0.0        1.5       2.5       3.6       5.6         6.7      19.8
Project Implenentation Cosa                    0.0        3.3       8.7       7.3       6.4         6.0      36.8
Total                                          5.2       63.5      72.7      52.5      39.7        35.2     268.7
1/ Cost include contingencies.



-151-                                           Annex N
Table N.2.1: Nacion Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categories I/
Local    Foreign       Total   % of Total    % of Frgn.
(US$ '000)
Institutional Stren2thenin2
Civil Works                                          0          0           0           0%             0%
Land                                                 0           0          0           0%             0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                    282       1,383      1,665           3%            83%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                1,143        254       1,397           3%            18%
Consultant Services                             15,405       1,193     16,597          33%             7%
Grants and Scholarships                          1,568       2,188      3,757           7%            58%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                           0          0           0           0%             0%
Operating Costs                                    486        236         721            1%           33%
Project Implementation Costs                    11,985          0      11,985          24%             0%
Subtotal                                        30,868       5,254     36,123          71%             15%
Infrastructure Improvement
Civil Works                                      1,564         125      1,689           3%             7%
Land                                                 0          0           0           0%             0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                     21         67          87           0%            76%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                  703           5        707            1%             1%
Consultant Services                                363          0         363           1%             0%
Grants and Scholarships                              0          0           0           0%             0%
Incrmm. Recurrent Salaris                            0           0          0           0%             0%
Operating Costs                                    185          0         18S           0%             0%
Project Implementation Costs                        45          0          45           0%             0%
Subtotal                                         2,880         197      3,077           6%             6%
Proiect Coordination Unit
Civil Works                                          0          0           0           0%             0%
Land                                                 0          0           0           0%             0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                      4          16         20           0%            81%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                    0           0          0           0%             0%
Consultant Services                             10,768        167      10,935          22%             2%
Grants and Scholarships                              0          0           0           0%             0%
Incram. Recurrent Salaries                           0          0           0           0%             0%
Operating Costs                                     12          5          13           0%            31%
Project Implementation Costs                       639          0        639            1%             0%
Subtotal                                        11,423        189      11,612          23%             2%
TOTAL COST                                      45,171       5,640     50,811         100%            11%



-152-                                         Annex N
Table N.2.2: Naclon Subproject Cost By Category of Expenditures'/
Local   Foreign       Total   V. of Total
(USS million)
Civil Works                                           1.6       0.1         1.7          3 %
LAnd                                                  0.0       0.0         0.0          0%
Informatics & Communications Equipment,               2.2       1.7         3.9          8%
Vehicles, Furniture, Training Material,
and Didactic Materials/Equipment
Consultants Services                                 26.5       1.4        27.9         55%
Grants and Scholarships                               1.6       2.2         3.8          7%
Incremental Recurrent Salaries                        0.0       0.0         0.0          0%
Operating Costa                                       0.7       0.2         0.9          2%
Project Implementation Costs                         12.7       0.0        12.7         25%
Total                                                45.2       5.6        50.8
Table N.2.3: Nacion Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures
and Years of Implementation 1/
124        1        1227        1222  1999                          Total
Civil Works                                0.0        0.8       0.9         0.0         0.0         0.0          1.7
Land                                       0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
Informatics & Communications Equipment,    0.0        1.9       1.1         0.4         0.3         0.3         3.9
Vehicles, Furniture, Training Materials,
and Didactic Materials/Equipment
Consultant Services                        5.2        9.5       4.3        3.4          2.7         2.8        27.9
Grants and Scholarships                    0.0        0.3       0.8         0.9         0.9         0.9         3.8
Incremental Recurrent Salaries             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Operting Costs                             0.0        0.1       0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.9
Project Implementation Costs               0.0       3.4        2.1        2.2          2.4         2.5        12.7
Total                                      5.2       16.0       9.3         7.0         6.6         6.7        50.8
1/ Costs include contingencies.



-153-                                         Annex N
Table N.3.1: Cordoba Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categories 'I/
Local     Foreip         Total    % of Total   % of Frgn.
USS(O00'")
Educational Ouality Improvcment
Civil Works                                     0            0            0           '0%           0%
Land                                            0            0            0            0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.               970         4,849       5,819           23%           83%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.              27            6           33            0%           18%
Consultant Services                           514          111          626            2%           18%
Gmants                                       3,047           0        3,047           12%           0%
Increm. RecurrentSalarics                       0            0            0            0%            0%
Operating Costs                               449            0          449            2%            0%
Project Implementation Costs                 1,142           0        1,142            5%            0%
Subtotal                                     6,149        4,967      11,116           44%           45%
Institutional Strenetheninz
Civil Works                                     0            0            0            0%            0%
Land                                             0           0            0            0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                110         351          461            2%           76%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.             571          125          696            3%           18%
Consultant Services                          2,006          56        2,061            8%            3%
Grants                                          17           0           17            0%            0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                      0            0            0            0%            0%
Operating Costs                                238          95          334            1%           29%
Project Implementation Costs                 2,521           0        2,521           10%            0%
Subtotal                                     5,463         627        6,090           24%           10%
Infrastructure Improvement
civil Works                                  3,110         252        3,362           13%           7%
Land                                          971            0          971            4%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                199          70          270            1%           26%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.             405            0          40S            2%           0%
Consultant Services                            174          12          187            1 %          7%
Grants                                          0            0            0            0%            0%
Increm. RecurrcntSalaries                       0            0            0            0%           0%
Operating Costs                               321            0          321            1%           0%
Project Implementation Costs                  261            0          261            1%           0%
Subtotal                                     5,441         334        5,776           23%           6%
Project Coordination Unit
Civil Works                                     0            0            0            0%            0%
Land                                            0            0            0            0%           0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                58           42          100            0%           42%
Fumiture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                4            1            4            0%          14%
Consultant Services                          1,536           0        1,536            6%           0%
Grants                                         36            0           36            0%           0%
Increm. Recumnt Salaries                        0            0            0            0%           0%
Operating Costs                               351           11          363            1%           3%
Project Implementation Costs                  311            0          311            1%           0%
Subtotal                                     2,297          54        2,351            9%           2%
TOTAL COST                                  19,351        5,982      25,332          100%          24%
1/ Totals include contingencies.



-154-                                          Annex N
Table N.3.2: Cordoba Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures
% of
Loca     Foregn       Total       Total
(USS million)
Civil Works                                                      3.1       0.3        3.4         13%
Land                                                             1.0       0.0        1.0         4%
Informatics & Communications Equipment,                          2.3       5.4        7.8        31%
Vehicles, Furniture, Training Materials,
and Didactic Materias/Equipment
Consultants Services                                             4.2       0.2        4.4         17%
Grants and Scholahips                                            3.1       0.0        3.1         12%
Incremental Recurrent Salries                                    0.0       0.0        0.0          0%
Operating Coss                                                   1.4       0.1        1.5          6%
Project Implementation Costs                                     4.2       0.0        4.2         17%
Total                                                           19.3       6.0       25.3
Table N.3.3: Cordoba Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures and Years of Implementation I/
IA2 9                 im         122097      i22 8   122
Civil Works                                          0.0         2.5       0.9        0.0         0.0        0.0         3.4
Land                                                 0.0         1.0       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         1.0
Infonnatics & Communications Equipment,              0.0         2.6       1.8        1.7         0.8       0.8          7.8
vehicles, Fumiture, Trining Material &
Didactic Materials/Equipment
Consulants Services                                  0.0         0.8       0.9        0.9         0.9       0.9         4.4
Grants and Scholarship.                              0.0         0.6       0.6        0.6         0.7       0.7         3.1
Incremental Recurrent Salaries                       0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Operating Costs                                      0.0         0.1       0.2        0.3         0.4       0.4          1.5
Project Implementtion Cost                           0.0         0.7       1.2        0.7         0.8       0.8         4.2
Total                                                0.0         8.3       5.5        4.3         3.6       3.7        25.3
1/ Costs include contingenciei.



-155-                                          Annex N
Table N.4.1: la Pampa Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categories'/
% of       % of
Local       Foreip           Total      Total      Frga.
(US$'000)
Educational Quality Improvement
Civil Works                                        0             0              0         0%         0%
Land                                               0             0              0         0%         0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                   19            95            114         1%        83%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.              2.424           551          2,975        15%         19%
Consultant Services                              699            37            736         4%         5%
Grants                                         1,205            69          1,274         6%         5%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                        31             0             31         0%         0%
Operating Costs                                  255             0            255         1%         0%
Project Implementation Costs                   1,306             0          1,306         7%         0%
Subtotal                                       5,940           752          6,692        34%         11%
Institutional Strendthening
Civil Works                                       0              0              0         0%         0%
Land                                               0             0              0         0%         0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                  171           893          1,064         5%        84%
Fumiture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                 241            37            277         1%         13%
Consultant Services                            1,576            58          1,634         8%         4%
Grants                                           153            41            194         1 %       21%
Increm. Recurrent Slaries                        411             0            411         2%         0%
Operating Costs                                  299           147            445         2%        33%
Project Implementation Costs                   1,608             0          1,608         8%         0%
Subtotal                                       4,458          1,176         5,634        29%        21%
Infrastructure Imorovement
Civil Works                                    4,987           389          5,376       27%          7%
Land                                               0             0              0         0%         0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                    0             0              0         0%         0%
Fumiture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                 478             0            478        2%          0%
Consultant Services                              167             0            167         1%         0%
Grants                                             0             0              0         0%         0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                         0             0              0         0%         0%
Operating Costs                                  212             0            212         1%         0%
Project Implementation Costs                      98             0             93         0%         0%
Subtotal                                       5,943           389          6,332        32%         6%
Proiect Coordination Unit
Civil Works                                       0              0              0        0%          0%
lAnd                                              0              0              0        0%          0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                   47            18             65         0%        28%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                  7             1              7         0%         9%
Consultant Service                               590             0            590         3 %        0%
Grants                                             0             0              0        0%          0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                       20              0             20        0%          0%
Operating Costs                                   56             1             57        0%          2%
Project Implementation Cost                      325             0            325        2%          0%
Subtotal                                       1,043            20          1,063        5%          2%
TOTAL COST                                    17,384         2,337         19,721      100%         12%
-    _    ._ J_    __.:



-156-                                         Annex N
Table N.4.2: La Pampa Subproject Cost by Category of
Expenditures'/
% of
Lal   Foreign    Total    Total
(USS millon)
Civil Worts                                         5.0        0.4      5.4      27%
LAnd                                                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0%
Informatics & Communikations Equipment,              3.4       1.6      5.0      25%
Vehicles, Fumiture, Training Materials,
and Didactic Materials/Equipment
Consultants Services                                3.0        0.1      3.1      16%
Grants and Scholarships                              1.4       0.1      1.5       7%
Incremental Recurrnt Salaries                        0.5       0.0      0.5       2%
Operating Expenditures                               0.3       0.1      1.0       5%
Project Implementation Expenditures                  3.3       0.0      3.3      17%
Total                                               17.4       2.3     19.7
Table N.4.3: La Pampa SubproJect Cost by Category of Expenditures
and Years of Implementation 'I
im   im  1m                          1        222  ia9
Civil Works                                0.0      0.5        2.4      2.0      0.2    0.3       5.4
Land                                       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Informaticw & Communications Equipment,    0.0      2.1        1.6      0.3      0.4    0.1       5.0
Vehicks
Furiture, Training Materials, and
Didactic MaterialslEquipmcnt
Consutants Services                        0.0      1.1        0.6      0.6      0.S    0.4      3.1
Grnts and Scholarships                     0.0      0.4        0.5      0.1      0.1    0.3       1.5
IncrementalRcurrent Salaries               0.0      0.1        0.1      0.1      0.1    0.1      0.5
Operating Expenditures                     0.0      0.1        0.2      0.2      0.2    0.3       1.0
Project Implementation Expenditures        0.0      0.7        0.2      0.7      0.6    0.5      3.3
Total                                      0.0      4.9        6.2      4.5      2.2    2.0    19.7



-157-                                          Annex N
Table N.5.1: Mendoza Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categories'/
Local        Fordign        Total   % of Total   % of Frgu.
(USS'OOO)
lducational Quality Imiprovement
Civil Works                                            0              0             0           0%            0%
Land                                                   0              0             0           0%            0%
Vehicle, Info. & Comm. EqupmL                        771           3,882        4,653            3%          S3%
Furniture, TeaehMatri. & EqupmLt.                  12,792         2,721        15,512          28%           1S%
Consuktnt Services                                 9,294             45         9,339           17%           0%
Grants                                                63            134           197           0%           68%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                           617              0           617            1%           0%
Opcating Costs                                      1,110           119         1,228           2%           10%
Project Implementation Costs                        1,567             0         1,567           3 %           0%
Subtotal                                          26,213          6,901        33,114          60%           21%
Institutional St=antheninaf
Civil Works                                            0              0             0           0%            0%
Land                                                   0              0             0           0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. EqupmL                       148            751           S9            2%           84%
Fumiture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt                      195             39           234           0%           17%
Consu lta  Service                                  1,890             12        1,902            3%           1%
Grant'                                                48             23            71           0%           32%
Inran. RecurrentSalmries                               0              0             0            0%           0%
Opeting Cost                                         587            106           693            1%          15%
Project Implenenttion Costs                         1,779             0         1,779           3%            0%
Subtotal                                           4,647            932         5,S78           10%          17%
Civil WoTks                                       10,195            803        11,003          20%            7%
Land                                                 677              0           677            1%           0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpnt.                        0              0             0           0%            0%
Fumiture, Tcach.MatrL & Equprut.                     521              0           521           1%            0%
Consunt Services                                   1,034  ^           0         1,034           2%            0%
Grnts                                                  0              0             0           0%            0%
Inecrn. RecurrentSablries                              0              0             0           0%            0%
Operating Costs                                     1,139             0         1,139           2%            0%
Project Implementation Cost                            0              0             0           0%            0%
Subtotal                                           13,568           tO         14,376          26%            6%
Priet Coordination Unit
Civi Works                                             0              0             0           0%            0%
Land                                                   0              0             0           0%            0%
Vchicls, Ino. & Comm. EqupaL                         177             47           225           0%           21%
Furnitue,TcLMatrL & E.upmL                             t              0             8           0%            0%
ConsUiant Scrnics                                   1,311             0         1,311           2%            0%
Grants                                                 0              0             0           0%            0%
Increm. Rccua. Sacrries                                0              0             0           0%            0%
Operating Costa                                      296              2           299           1%            1%
'ojct Impl_emntat  Coss                               98              0            98           0%            0%
Subtotl                                             1,891            50         1,941           4%            3%
TOTAL COST                                        46,319           t,690       5S,009         100%           16%
1V Tolals include contingencies.



-158-                                        Annex N
Table N.5.2: Mendoza Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures1/
% of
local    Fordip      Total       Total
(USS Millon)
Civil Work                                      10.2        0.8      11.0        20%
Land                                             0.7        0.0       0.7          1%
Infonnatics & Communications Equipment,         14.6        7.4      22.1        40%
Vehicks, Fumiture, Training Materials, and
Didactic Material/Equipment
Consukants Services                             13.5        0.1      13.6        25%
Grant and Scholanhips                            0.1        0.2       0.3         0%
Incremental Recurrent Sluries                    0.6        0.0       0.6          1%
Operating Expenditures                           3.1        0.2       3.4         6%
Project Impmentation Expenditures                3.4        0.0       3.4         6%
Totl                                            46.3        8.7      55.0
Table N.5.3: Mendoza Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures
and Years of Inplementation VI
im        i          im m                  im                    To9 l  Ta
Civil Works                           0.0        3.5        3.4       2.0         2.2        0.0        11.0
LAnd                                  0.0        0.0        0.1       0.4         0.2        0.0        0.7
Informatics & Conmunnicaons           0.0        6.4        1.5       2.6         2.2        2.3       22.1
Equ-mnat,
Vehicks, Fumiture, Traiing Materials,
and Didctic Materials/Equipment
Consutants Services                   0.0       3.3         2.8       2.5         2.4        2.5       13.6
Grnts and Scholknhips                 0.0       0.1         0.1       0.1         0.0        0.0        0.3
Incrmel Recurrnat Salarie             0.0        0.1        0.1       0.1         0.1        0.2        0.6
Operating Expenditures                0.0        0.4        0.5       0.6         0.9        1.0        3.4
Project mlpmpnla  Expeniture          0.0        1.0        0.6       0.7         0.5        0.7        3.4
Total                                 0.0       14.6       16.1       9.1         3.6        6.6       55.0
I/ Costs include contingencies.



-159-                                         Annex N
Table N.6.1: Misiones Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categories'/
LoCal       Foredp           Total   % of Total       % of Frgn.
(US$'000)
Educational Oualitv Imorovement
Civil Works                               0              0             0           0%               0%
Land                                      0              0             0            0%               0%
Vehicls, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.           26             14            40            0%              35%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.     4,203            893         5,101           22%              18%
Consultant Services                     536             68           604            3 %             11%
Grants                                   24              0            24            0%               0%
Increm. Recurrent Salanri                 0              0             0            0%               0%
Operating Costs                         282             83           364            2%              23%
Project Implementation Coats          1,045              0          1,045           4%               0%
Subtotal                              6,116          1,062         7,178           31%              15%
lqstitutional Strenatheninf
Civil Works                               0              0             0            0%               0%
Land                                      0              0             0            0%               0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.         273            780          1,0S4           5%              74%
Purniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.        30              3            33            0%              10%
Consultant Services                     691            119           811            3%              15%
Grants                                1,340              0          1,340           6%               0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries            1,218              0          1,218           5%               0%
Operating Costs                       3,932             20          3,952          17%               1%
Project Implementation Costs            532              0           532            2%               0%
Subtotal                              8,016            923          8,939          38%              10%
Ifrastructure Imorovemen
Civil Works                           3,440            270         3,710           16%               7%
Land                                     67              0            67            0%               0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.           0              0             0            0%              0%
Purniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.     1,300              0          1,300           6%               0%
Consultant Services                     293             67           360           2%               19%
Grants                                    0              0             0            0%               0%
Increm. RecurrentSalaries                 0              0             0            0%               0%
Operating Cosu                           32              0            82            0%               0%
Project Implementation Cost             300              0           300            1%               0%
Subtotal                              5,482            337          5,819          25%               6%
Prniect Coordination 1=n
Civil Works                   '           0              O             0            0%               0%
land                                      0              0             0            0%               0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.           6             22            28            0%              78%
Furniture, Teach.Matri. & Equpmt.         *              0             a            0%               0%
Consutt Servieces                       975              0           97S            4%              0%
Grants                                    0              0             0            0%              0%
Increnm.. Recurrent Salaries              0              0             0            0%               0%
Openting Cost.                            5              2             7            0%              25%
Proj%et Implemenation Cost              302              0           302            1%               0%
Subtotal                              1,297             23          1,320           6%              2%
TOTAL COST                           20,910          2,347        23,257          100%              10%



-160-                                         Annex N
Table N.6.2: Misiones Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures
% of
Local    Foreigp      Total     Total
(US$ Million)
Civil Works                                            3.4         0.3       3.7       16%
Land                                                   0.1         0.0       0.1        0%
Infornatics & Communicstions Equipment, Vehicles,      5.8         1.7       7.6       33%
Furniture, Training Materials, and Didactic
Materials/Equipmel
Consultants Services                                   2.5         0.3       2.7       12%
Grants  d Schobrships                                   1.4        0.0        1.4       6%
lncremntal Recurrent Salries                           1.2         0.0       1.2        5%
Oeating Expenditure'                                   4.3         0.1       4.4       19%
Project Implementation Expenditures                    2.2         0.0       2.2        9%
Total                                                 20.9         2.3      23.3
Table N.6.3: Misiones Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures
and Years of Implementation 1/
im          2                    19 9 2  7  21         19T       IRtal
Civil Works                                 0.0        0.8         1.3       1.6        0.1        0.0       3.7
Land                                        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.1        0.0        0.0       0.1
Informutics & Communications Equipment.     0.0        1.7         1.5       1.6        1.7        1.1       7.6
Vehicles, Furniture, Training Materials,
and Didactic MaterialslEquipment
Consulants Services                         0.0        1.0         0.6       0.3        0.4        0.4       2.7
Incremental Recurrent Salaries              0.0        0.1         0.2       0.2        0.3        0.3       1.2
Operting Expenditure                        0.0        0.0         0.5       0.9        1.4        1.7       4.4
Project Implementation Expenditmres         0.0        0.2         0.7       0.6        0.4        0.3       2.2
TotaW                                       0.0        3.8         5.1       6.1        4.4        3.9      23.3



-161-                                           Annex N
Table N.7.1: Neuquen Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categoriest/
L1cal       Fore%p          Total     % of Total   % of Frgn.
(US$'000)
Educational Oualitv Improvement
Civil Works                                                0             0             0              0%            0%
LAnd                                                       0             0             0              0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. EqupmL                           156           767           924              3%           83%
Furniture, Teach.MatrL & Equpmt.                       5,026          1,128        6,154             18%           18%
Consultant Services                                    5,246             0         5,246             15%            0%
Grants                                                    83            69           151              0%           45%
Increm. RecurrentSalarie                               1,691             0          1,691             5%            0%
Operating Costs                                          476           104           580              2%           18%
Project Implementation Costs                           1,769             0          1,769             5%            0%
Subtotal                                              14,448         2,068        16,516             47%           13%
Institutional Strencthenin
Civil Works                                                0             0             0              0%            0%
Land                                                       0             0             0              0%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.                          142           698           840              2%           83%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.                          9             2            11              0%           19%
Consultant Servies                                     2,236             5         2,242              6%            0%
Grants                                                    0              0             0              0%            0%
Increm. Recurreat Salaries                                 0             0             0              0%            0%
Operating Costs                                          199            35           233              1%           15%
Project Implementation Cost                            1,558             0          1,558             4%            0%
Subtotal                                               4,144           740         4,885             14%           15%
Infrastructure Imorovement
Civil Works                                            9,144           721         9,865            28%             7%
LAnd                                                     299             0           299              1%            0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. EqupmtL                            0             0             0              0%            0%
Furniture, Teach.Matrt. & Equpmt                         787             0           787              2%            0%
Consultant Services                                      613            S0           663              2%            8%
Grants                                                     0             0             0             0%             0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                                 0             0             0              0%            0%
Operting Costa                                           572             0           572              2%            0%
Project Implementatioli Costs                             85             0            85              0%            0%
Subtotal                                              11,500           771         12,271            35%            6%
Civil Work                                                 0             0             0             0%             0%
Lawnd                                                      0             0             0              0%            0%
Vehicls, Info. & Comm. EqupmL 0                                         0             0              0%            0%
Furniture, Teach.MatrL & Equpmt.                           0             0             0              0%            0%
Consultant Servies                                     1,100             0         1,100             3%             0%
Grnts                                                      0             0             0             0%            0%
IncremL Recurrent Shlaries                                 0             0             0              0%            0%
Operating Costs                                            0             0             0              0%            0%
Project Implementation Costs                             248             0           248              1 %           o0%
Subtobt                                                1 148             0          1,348             4%            0%S
TOTAL COST                                            31,440          3,579       3S,020            100%           10%
1/ Total indude contingencies.



-162-                                         Annex N
Table N.7.2: Neuquen Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures&/
% of
Local   Foreign      Total    Total
(US$ Million)
Civil Works                                         9.1       0.7       9.9       28%
Land                                                0.3       0.0       0.3        1%
Informtc & Communications Equipment,                6.1       2.6        8.7      25%
Vehickcs, Purniture, Training Material,
and Didactic Materia/Equipment
Consultants Services                                9.2       0.1       9.3       26%
Grmnts and Scholarships                             0.1       0.1       0.2        0%
Incremental Recurrent Salaries                      1.7       0.0        1.7       5%
Opeating Costs                                      1.2       0.1        1.4       4%
Project Implementation Costs                        3.7       0.0        3.7      10%
otal                                               31.4       3.6       35.0
Table N.7.3: Neuquen Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures and Years of
Implementation 1/
199 Cm    1297 I99 1999m   lOb
Civil Works                                0.0      0.8       6.9       2.1       0.0    0.0       9.9
Land                                       0.0      0.3       0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0       0.3
Informatics & Communications Equipment,    0.0      0.6       3.7       3.7       0.6    0.2       8.7
Vehiclek, Furniture, Training Materials,
and Didactic Materials/Equipment
Consultants Services                      0.0       3.3       2.0        1.5      1.2    1.3      9.3
Grants and Scholanhips                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1       0.1    0.0      0.2
Incremental Recurrent Salaries            0.0       0.2       0.3       0.4       0.4    0.4       1.7
Operating Coots                           0.0       0.0       0.1       0.2       0.5    0.6       1.4
Project Impkmenntion Costs                 0.0      1.1       0.8       0.6       0.6    0.5      3.7
Totl                                      0.0       6.3      13.8       8.5       3.3    3.1     35.0
11 Costs include contingencies.



-163-                                          Annex N
Table N.8.1: Rio Negro Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categoriese/
L1ocl     Foregp         Total   % of Total   % of Frgn.
(USS'000)
Educational Ouality Imorovement
ivil Works                                    0            0           0            0%           0%
Land                                          0            0            0           0%           0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.              59          239         299            1%          80%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.         1,816          408        2,223           7%          18%
Consultant Services                         659           27         685            2%           4%
Grants and Scholarships                       0            0           0           0%            0%
Increm. Recurmnt Salaries                     0            0            0           0%           0%
Operating Costs                             124            0          124           0%           0%
Project Implementation Costs              1,310            0        1,310           4%           0%
Subtotal                                  3,968          674        4,642          14%          15%
Institutional Strenetheninf
Civil Works                                   0            0           0            0%           0%
Land                                          0            0            0           0%           0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.             458          899        1,358           4%          66%
Furniture, Teach.Matrl. & Equpmt.           131            4          135           0%           3%
Consultant Services                       2,696          396        3,092           9%          13%
rants and Scholarhips                     2,546            0        2,546           8%           0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                  683            0         683            2%           0%
Operating Costs                             512           88         600            2%          15%
Project Implementation Costs              2,054            0        2,054           6%           0%
Subtotal                                  9,080        1,388       10,468          31%          13%
Infrastructure lmiprovement
Civil Works                               9,272          695        9,966         30%            7%
Land                                        445            0         445            1%           0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. Equpmt.               0            0           0            0%           0%
Furniture, Tcach.Matrl. & Equpmt.            91            0          91            0%           0%
Consultant Serviccs                         608          128         737            2%          17%
Grants and Scholarships                       0            0           0           0%            0%
Increm. Recurrnt Salaries                     0            0           0            0%           0%
Operating Costs                           4,453            0        4,453          13%           0%
Project Implementation Costs                749            0         749            2%           0%
Subtotal                                 15,613          823       16,442         49%            5%
proiect Coordination Unit
Civil Works                                   0            0           0           0%            0%
Land                                          0            0           0            0%           0%
Vehicks, Info. & Comm. Equpat.                1            7            8           0%          U4%
Fumiturc, Teach.Matrl. & Equimt.              5            0            5           0%           0%
Consultant Service                        1,832            0        1,332           5%           0%
Grants and Schol;whips                        0            0            0           0%           0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                    0            0            0           0%           0%
Opertng Costau                                2            1           3            0%          35%
Pro,ect Implementation Costs                37A            0         374            1 %          0%
Subtotl                                   2,214            8        2,222          7%            0%
TOTAL COST                               30,880        2,893       33,773         100%           9%
1/ Totals include contingencies.



-164-                                        Annex N
Table N.8.2: Rio Negro Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditurest/
% of
Local   Forde    Total    Total
(USS million)
Civil Works                                             9.3       0.7   10.0       30%
Land                                                    0.4       0.0    0.4        1 %
Informatics & Communications Equipmen,                  2.6       1.6    4.1       12%
Vehicles, Funiture, TMining Materils, and
Didactic Materials/Equipent
Consutants Services                                     5.3       0.6    6.3       19%
Grnts nd Scholasnhips                                   2.5       0.0    2.5        S%
Incremental Recurret Salaries                           0.7       0.0    0.7        2%
Opeating Coss                                           5.1       0.1     5.2      15%
Project Implementation Cost                             4.5       0.0    4.5       13%
Total                                                  30.9       2.9   33.8
Table N.8.3: Rio Negro Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures
and Years of Inplementation '/
INA2 l22 1 7 199   lff i6
Civil Works                                   0.0       0.0       0.3    2.0       4.0   3.6   10.0
Land                                          0.0       0.0       0.0    0.2       0.1   0.1    0.4
Infonnm   & CoEmun     Equipment,             0.0       0.7       1.4    1.2       0.8   0.0    4.1
Vehicls, Furniture, Tmining Materials, and
Didactic Materials/Equipment
Coulkants Services                           0.0        1.6       2.1    1.1       0.3   0.7    6.3
Grant and Scholnhips                         0.0        0.2       0.2    0.7       0.8   0.7    2.5
Incremneta Recurrent Sala                     0.0       0.0       0.2    0.3       0.2   0.0    0.7
Operating Cosb                                0.0       0.8       0.9    1.0       1.2   1.3    5.2
Project Implm ton Costs                       0.0       0.7       1.3    1.1       0.8    0.5    4.5
Total                                         0.0       4.0       6.4    7.8       3.7   6.9   33.8
1/ Costs includoe cont.in .



-165-                                          Annex N
Table N.9.1: Santa Fe Subproject Cost by Component and Main Categoriei/
Local         Fordp            Total    * of Total    % of Frgn.
(USS'000)
Educational Oualitv Improvement
Civil Works                                       0                0             0             0%             0%
Lad                                              0                0             0             0%             0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. EqupmL                    0                0             0             0%             0%
Fumiture, Teach.MarL .& Equpmt.                2,336            272          2,608            10%            10%
Consultant Services                            1,558             69           1,627            6%            4%
Grants and Scholhsbips                            0               0              0             0%             0%
Increm. Recurrent Salaries                        0               0              0             0%             0%
Opertins Cost                                     0                0             0             0%             0%
Project Implementation Costs                    582                0           5S2             2%             0%
Subtotal                                       4,476            340          4,816            19%             7%
Institutional Strengdenins
Civil Works                                       0               0              0             0%             0%
Land                                              0                0             0             0%             0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm, Equpmt.                 283            1,411          1,694            7%            83%
Furniture, Teach.MatrL & Equpmt.                246               57           303             1%            19%
Consultant Services                           2,707             240          2,947            11%             I %
Grants and Scholaships                            0.               0             0             0%             0%
Increm. RecurrentSalaries                         0               0              0             0%             0%
Opeating Costs                                  166              63            230             1%            28%
Project Implementation Costa                   1.614               0          1,614            6%             0%
Subtotal                                       5,016           1,772         6,7SS            26%            26%
Infiau turc lm prourmnt
Civil Works                                   7,881             620          S,500            33%             7%
Land                                              0                0             0             0%             0%
Vehicles, Info. & Comm. EqupmL                   76             233            308             1%            75%
Furnitur, Teach.MatrL & Equpmt.                1,591               0          1,591            6%             0%
Consulnt Services                               125               3            128             0%             2%
Grants and Scholsnhips                            0       *       0              0             0%             0%
Increm. RecurrentSarirs                           0                0             0             0%             0%
Operating Cost                                 1,913               0          1,913            7%             0%
Project Impleaaentatbn Cost                     277                0           277             1%             0%
Subtol                                        11,862             855         12,711           49%             7%
proiect Coordination Uni
Civil Works                                       0               0              0             0%             0%
LAnd                                              0                0             0         .0%                0%
Vehicls, Info. & Comm. EqupmL                    13               21            34             0%            63%
Furnitue, Tesch.Matrl. & Equpmt.                  0                0             0             0%             0%
Consukant Servicus                             1.163              0           1,163            5*             0*
Grnts and Scholarships                            0               0              0             0%             0%
lncrem.RecctrmSa4ries                            0                0             0             0%             0%
Operating Costs                                   0                0             0             0%             0%
Projod ctplenstioa  cos                         277               0            277             1%             0%
Subtotal                                       1,453              21          1,474            6%             1%
TOTAL COST                                    22,807           2,988        25,795           100%            12%
1/ Totals include contingencies.



-166-                                         Annex N
Table N.9.2: Santa Fe Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures1/
% of
Local   Fore*p    Total   Ital
(USS million)
Civil Works                                                 7.9       0.6    8.5      33%
Land                                                        0.0       0.0    0.0       0%
Informatics & Communications Equipment,                     4.5       2.0    6.5    25%
Vchicles, Furniture, Training Materials,
and Didactic Materials/Equipment
Consulants Services                                         5.6       0.3    5.9      23%
Grants and Scholarships                                     0.0       0.0    0.0       0%
Incremental Recurrent Salaries                              0.0       0.0    0.0        0%
Opeating Costs                                              2.1        0.1    2.1       8%
Project Implementation Costs                                2.8       0.0    2.8       11%
Total                                                      22.8       3.0   25.8    100%
Table N.9.3: Santa Fe Subproject Cost by Category of Expenditures and Years of
Implementation '/
1994    199S      1996   1997    1998   1999   Total
Civil Works                                         0.0    2.2        3.1    2.2       0.7    0.4    8.5
Land                                                0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0
Informatics & Communications Equipment,             0.0     1.4       3.3     1.4      0.2    0.2    6.5
Vehicles, Furniurm, Training Materials,
and Didactic Materials/Equipment
Consultants Services                                0.0     1.6       2.6    0.9       0.4    0.3    5.9
Grants and Scholarships                             0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0
Incremental Recurrent Salaries                      0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0
Operting Costs                                      0.0    0.0        0.1    0.2       0.8    1.!    2.1
Project Implementation Costs                        0.0    0.4         1.2    0.6      0.3    0.3    2.8
Total                                               0.0    5.7        10.3    5.3      2.3    2.2   25.8
1/ Totas include contingencice.



-167-                                        Annex N
Table N.10: Detailed Project Cost by Component, Sub-Component
and years of Implementation (US$ million) '/
1994     199S      1996      1997     1998    1999  TOTAL
Nacion Subprojeet
Institutioral Strengthening                       0.0     13.1       6.7       5.9      S.2      5.2    36.1
Infrastructure Improvement                        0.0      1.6       1.3       0.0      0.1      0.1     3.1
Project Coordination Unit                        5.2       1.2       1.3       1.2      1.3      1.4    11.6
Subtotal                                            5.2      16.0      9.3       7.0       6.6     6.7    50.8
Cordoba Subprojed
Educational Quality Ipvement                      0.0      2.8       2.4       2.5      1.7      1.3    11.1
Institutional Strengthening                       0.0      0.4       1.8       1.3      1.3      1.3     6.1
Infrastructur Improvenent                        0.0       4.5       1.0       0.1      0.1      0.1     5.8
Project Coordination Unit                         0.0      0.6       0.4       0.4      0.5      0.5      2.4
Subtotal                                            0.0       3.3      5.5       4.3       3.6     3.7    25.3
La Pampa Subprojeet
Educational Quality Impvement                     0.0      1.9       2.3       1.1      0.8      0.6     6.7
Institutional Strengthening                       0.0      2.2       0.9       1.0      0.S      0.7      5.6
Infrastructur Improvement                        0.0       0.5       2.7       2.2      0.3      0.5     6.3
Project Coordination Unit                         0.0      0.3       0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2      1.1
Subtotal                                            0.0       4.9      6.2       4.5       2.2     2.0    19.7
Mendoza Subproject
Educational Quality Improvement                   0.0      8.1      10.7       4.9      4.6      4.8    33.1
Institutional Strengthening                       0.0       1.7      1.1       1.1       0.7     0.9      5.6
Infrastructure Improvement                        0.0      4.2       3.9       2.7      3.0      0.6    14.4
Project Coordination Unit                         0.0      0.6       0.3       0.3      0.3      0.4      1.9
Subtotal                                            0.0      14.6     16.1       9.1       8.6     6.6    55.0
siones Subproject
Educational Quality Improvement                   0.0      1.9       2.1       1.5      0.9      0.8     7.2
Institutional Strengthening                       0.0      0.7       1.0       2.2      2.6      2.4      8.9
Infratructur Improvenent                         0.0       0.9       1.7       2.2      0.6      0.4     5.8
Project Coordination Unit                        0.0       0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3      1.3
Subtotal                                            0.0       3.8      5.1       6.1       4.4     3.9    23.3
Neuquen Subproject
Educational Qualty Improvement                    0.0      3.5       4.6       4.8      1.8      1.3    16.5
Institutional Strengthening                      0.0       1.1       1.1       1.0      1.0      0.7     4.9
Infrastructure Improvement                       0.0       1.5       7.8       2.4      0.2     0.3    12.3
Project Coordination Unit                         0.0      0.2       0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3     1.3
Subtotal                                            0.0       6.3     13.8      83S        3.3     3.1    35.0
Rio Negro Subprotect
Educational Quality Improvement                  0.0       0.7       1.9       1.2      0.7      0.1     4.6
InsQtutional Strengthening                        0.0      2.0       2.3       2.3      2.1      1.3    10.5
Infrastructure improvement                        0.0      0.9       1.3       3.8      5.5     5.0    16.4
Project Coordination Unit                         0.0      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.5     0.5      2.2
Subtotal                                            0.0       4.0      6.4       7.8       3.7     6.9    33.8
Santa Fe Subprojeet
Educational Quality I  nmvemt                    0.0       0.6       3.9       0.4      0.0     0.0      4;8
Institutional Strengthening                       0.0      2.3       2.1       1.6       0.4     0.4      6.8
Infrasructurm Improvement                         0.0      2.6       4.0       3.0       1.6     1.5    12.7
Prject Coordinaton Unit                           0.0      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3     1.5
Subtotal                                            0.0       5.7     10.3       5.3       2.3     2.2    25.3
Total Project
Educational Quality Improvement                  0.0      19.4      27.9      16.4     10.5      9.8    84.1
Iituticnal Strengthening                          0.0     23.5      17.7      16.4     14.0    13.0    34.5
lnfrstructure Improvement                        0.0      16.8      23.7      16.4     11.5     8.5    76.3
Project Coordination Unit                        5.2       3.8       3.5      3.4       3.6     3.8    23.3
Total                                               5.2      63.6     72.7      52.6      39.5    35.1   268.7



-168-                                             Annex 0
ANNEX 0: Project Implementation Schedule
12L4     I 99S              1997   1998        1999
Nacion Subonmiect
Institutional Strengthening                         0%       36%      19%    . 16%      14%       14%
In tucture mprovement                               0%      53%       41%        0%      3%        3%
Project CoordinationUnit                           44%       11%      11%       10%     11%       12%
Subtotal                                         10%       31%       18%      14%     13%       13%
Cordoba Suboroiect
Educatonal Quality Improvement                      0%      25%       21%       22%     15%       16%
Institutional Strengthening                        .0%        7%      30%       21%     21%       21%
Infrastructure Improvement                          0%      78%       17%        2%      2%        2%
Project Coordintion Unit                            0%      24%       18%       18%    20%        20%
Subtotal                                          0%       33%       22%      17%     14%       15%
La PamDa Suboroiect
Educational Quality linprovement                    0%      28%       34%       17%     12%        9%
Institutional Strengthening                         0%       39%      17%       18%     15%       12%
Infastrcture Improvement                            0%        8%      43%       35%      5%        8%
Project Coordination Unit                           0%      28%       19%       17%     18%       18%
Subtotal                                            0%       25%      31%       23%     11%       10%
Mendoza Suboroiect
Educational Quality Improvement                     0%      24%       32%       15%     14%       15%
Institutional Strengthening                         0%      31%       20%       20%     12%       16%
Infrutructure Improvement                           0%       29%      27%       19%    21%         4%
Project Coordination Unit                   ,       0%       28%      18%       17%     18%       19%
Subtotal                                            0%       27%      29%       16%     16%       12%
Misiones Suboroict
Educational Qual  Improvement                       0%       26%      30%       21%     13%       11%
Ittutional Strengthening                            0%        8%      11%       24%    29%        27%
Infrstructure Improvement                           0%       15%      30%       37%     10%        7%
Project Coordination Unit                           0%      20%       19%       20%    20%        21%
Subtotal                                            0%       16%      22%       26%     19%       17%
Neuauen Subgricdt
Educational Qualiy Improvement                      0%      21%       28%       29%     11%       11%
Institutional Strengthening                         0%       22%      23%       20%    20%        15%
Infrstructure Improvement                           0%       12%      64%       20%      2%        3%
Project Coordination Unit                           0%       18%      19%      20%    21%         22%
Subtotal                                            0%       18%      39%       24%      9%        9%
Rio Nefro Suboroject
Educational Qua itImprovemeat                       0%       15%      41%       27%     15%        2%
Institutional Strengthening                         0%       19%      27%       22%    20%        12%
Infrastructure Improvement                          0%        6%       8%       23%    33%        30%
Project Coordintion Unit                            0%       18%      19%       20%    21%        22%
Subtotal                                            0%       12%      19%       23%    26%        20%
Santa Fe Sub,roiect
Educational Quality Improvement                     0%       12%      80%        8%      0%        0%
Institutional Strengthening                         0%      33%       31%      24%       5%        6%
Infratucture Improement                             0%      21%       32%      23%      13%       12%
Project Coordination Unit                           0%       19%      21%       19%     19%       20%
Subtotal                                            0%      22%       40%       21%      9%        8%
Total Pei
Educational Quality Improvement                     0%      23%       33%       19%     13%       12%
Institutional Strighing                             0%      28%       21%       19%     17%       15%
InfrastructureImpmvemaet                            0%      22%       31%      21%      15%       11%
Project Coordination Unit                          22%      16%       15%       14%     15%       1S%
Total                                               2%      24%       27%      20%      15%       13%
1/ Totals include contingencies



- 169 -                            Annex P
ANNEX P: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
I. Project Management Objective and Structure
1.   The project would be coordinated by the National Project Coordination Unit (NCPU)
which is directly accountable to the Subsecretariat of Programming and Educational
Management (SUPEM). The NCPU would be responsible for overall project coordination,
including project planning, control, monitoring, and supervision as well as technical
assistance to the provinces. The NPCU would also implement, through NMCE's existing
structure, the National subproject. Provincial ministries would be responsible for the
implementation of the subprojects within the Provincial Subproject Coordination Units
(PPCU). Table P. 1 of this Annex indicates the distribution of responsibilities between the
NCPU and PPCUs, which was confirmed during appraisal.
II. National Project Coordination Unit (NCPU)
2.   Functions and Responsibilities. The NCPU comprises seven coordination subunits
encompassing its main objectives: planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation;
procurement; financing, accounting and evaluation and auditing; institutional development;
Project Executive Council; quality improvement; and infrastructure. The project coordinator
would be assisted a Project Consultative Council (PCC).
3.    Specific functions and responsibilities of the NCPU are: (i) directing, coordinating,
and supervising the overall project implementation; (ii) serving as the technical,
administrative, counterpart of the World Bank during the life of the project; (iii) monitoring
project execution according to the project monitoring matrix explained in Annex R; (iv)
preparing administrative and technical guidelines and procedures required for project
implementation; (v) delegating to the Technical Secretariat of Operations the administration
of the bidding procedures for civil works, goods, and services required for the Federal sub
project implementation; (vi) timely submitting to the Bank consolidated, disbursement
applications for civil works, goods, and services payments; (vii) coordinating activities with
the PPCU's of the project provinces; (viii) periodically reporting to the Minister of Education
and the Bank on project implementation progress; and (ix) serving as executive secretariat of
the Project Executive Council. The functions and responsibilities of the coordination
subunits would be:
(a)   Planning. Programming. Monitoring and Evaluation: (i) outdate and monitor
the action plans established for each project component and subcomponent
through plans established to reach project component and subcomponent



- 170 -                             Annex P
through the respective programs, procedures, schedules, budgets, and
disbursement outflows; (ii) keep track on the implementation of all components
and subcomponent of the project; (iii) evaluate the projects component
implementation impact on quality, efficiency, and equity of education; and (iv)
inform NCPU of any substantial deviation of the annual project targets and
suggest remedial actions.
(b)   procurement: (i) preparing the procurement documents in close coordination
with PPCU's and in accordance with Bank specifications in each bidding
procedure required by subproject implementation; (ii) coordinating the bidding
process for the Federal subproject, which includes, calling for bids, evaluating
bidding proposals, timely reporting to the Bank, the required authorization
from the administrative units of MCE, signing contracts, and coordinating the
execution of specific contracts; (iii) preparing the bidding documents in close
coordination with PPCU's to hire technical assistance in accordance with Bank
procedures as required by project implementation; (iv) coordinating the hiring
of local and foreign consultants for the National subproject, which includes,
calling for consulting bids, evaluating bidding proposals, timely reporting to
the Bank, acquiring the required authorization from the administrative units of
MCE, signing or authorizing consulting contracts, and coordinating the
execution of specific contracts; and (v) maintaining effective coordination with
the PPCU's management and other divisions and the specialized counterparts
within the MCE.
(c)   Financing. Accounting and Evaluation, and Auditing: (i) consolidating
disbursement application of funds according to approved budget and
procedures, in close coordination with PPCU'S and, MCE Planning and
Budgeting Divisions; (ii) processing the disbursement applications of the
Federal subproject in accordance with Bank procedures and guidelines; (iii)
carrying out the project implementation accounting; (iv) promoting the auditing
following the Bank's guidelines and procedures; and (v) maintaining effective
coordination with the Ministry of Economy and the Banco de la Naci6n as well
as the PPU's management and other MCE divisions and the specialized
counterparts within the MCE.
(d)   Institutional Development: (i) establishing the required plan of action to
implement the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the MCE at the
Federal level in the framework of the decentralization process; (ii) translating,
in conjunction with the NCPU Planning, Programming, and Monitoring
Division, the action plan in specific programs, procedures, schedules, budgets,
and disbursement outflows, required by the implementation of this component;
(iii) monitoring the implementation of all subcomponents contained in this
subproject component; (iv) reporting to the PIU manager of any significant



- 171 -                             Annex P
deviations of the subproject targets and procedures related to this component
according to prescribed standards; and (v) coordinating all evaluation activities
required by this component during the life of the subproject.
(e)   Project consultative Council (PCC): (i) providing counseling in project
implementation; (ii) insuring the correct application by NPCU management of
the project as well as its consistency with stated objectives ; (iii) assisting the
NCPU management in assuring financial sustainability during the life of the
project; (iv) recommending the Minister of Education actions to be taken to
improve subproject implementation; and (v) analyzing the accomplishments of
project implementation targets. The Consultative Council will meet to review
project implementation, and organizational problems that could affect project
execution, and review project monitoring indicators.
(f)   Quality Improvement: (i) Providing technical assistance to provincial
subproject in those components and subcomponents related to quality
improvement; (ii) Promoting the exchange of experience among provincial
subproject in the implementation of the quality improvement subcomponents;
(iii) monitoring the implementation of all components and subcomponents
containing quality improvement measures; (iv) reporting NPCU manager of
any significant deviations of subproject targets and suggest corrective action;
and (v) coordinating all evaluations activities required by the components and
subcomponents related to quality improvement of the subproject.
(g)   Infrastructure. (i) Providing technical assistance to provincial subproject in
those components and subcomponents related to physical infrastructure,
constructions, remodeling, and expansion; (ii) Promoting the exchange of
experience among provincial subproject in the implementation of the
infrastructure component; (iii) monitoring the implementation of all
components and subcomponents containing infrastructure improvement; (iv)
reporting NPCU manager of any significant deviations in subproject targets
and suggest conrective action; and (v) coordinating all evaluations activities
required by the components and subcomponents related to infrastructure of the
subproject.
m. Provincial Subproject Coordination Units (PPCU)
4.    Functions  d      sibijliis  In general, the PPCUs comprise six coordination
subunits encompassing its main objectives: planning, programming, monitoring and
evaluation; procurement; financing, accounting and evaluation and auditing; institutional
development; quality improvement; and infrastructure. Many of the functions described
below will be perfonned by staff withing the existing ministerial structure.



-172 -                             Annex P
5.    Specific function and responsibilities of the PPCU and its subunits are: (i) directing,
coordinating, implementing, and supervising the overall provincial subproject
implementation; (ii) serving as the technical, administrative, and operational counterpart of
the NCPU during the life of the project; (iii) monitoring subproject execution according to
the project monitoring matrix explained in Annex R; (iv) applying agreed, administrative and
technical guidelines and procedures required for project implementation; (v) coordinating and
administering the bidding procedures for civil works, goods, and services required by the
subproject implementation; (vi) timely submitting to the NCPU, disbursement applications
for civil works, goods, and services payments; (vii) coordinating PPCU's activities with the
provincial MCE, its provincial offices, the regions, decentralized agencies, NGOs, and
schools, participating in subproject implementation; and (viii) periodically reporting to the
NPCU and the Bank on project implementation progress.
(a)   Planning, Programming. Monitoring. and Evaluation. (i) Implement the action
plans established for each subproject component and subcomponent through
plans established to reach subproject component and subcomponent through the
respective programs, procedures, schedules, budgets, and disbursement
outflows; (ii) monitor the implementation of all components and subcomponent
of the subproject; and (iii) evaluate the subprojects component implementation
impact on quality, efficiency, and equity of education.
(b)   procurement.(i) Preparing the procurement documents in close coordination
with NCPU in accordance with Bank specifications in each bidding procedure
required by subproject implementation; (ii) coordinating and executing the
bidding process, which includes, calling for bids, evaluating bidding proposals,
timely reporting to the NCPU and the Bank, acquiring the required
authorization from the provincial authorities, signing contracts, and
coordinating the execution of specific contracts; (iii) preparing the bidding
documents in close coordination with NCPU's to hire technical assistance in
accordance with Bank procedures as required by subproject implementation;
(iv) coordinating the hiring of local and foreign consultants, which includes,
calling for consulting bids, evaluating bidding proposals, timely reporting to
the NCPU and the Bank, acquiring the required authorization from the
provincial authorities, signing consulting contracts, and coordinating the
execution of specific contracts; and (v) maintaining effective coordination with
the PPCU management and other divisions and the specialized counterparts
within the provincial MCE.
(c)   Financing. Acunting and Evaluation and Audif=.(i) Disbursing funds
according to approved budget and procedures, in close coordiihation with
PPCU's divisions and mnanagement, provincial MCE, Planning and Budgeting
Divisions, provincial Ministry of Economy, and the Central Bank; (ii)
preparing the disbursement applications in accordance with Bank procedures



- 173 -                             Annex P
and guidelines for presentation to NPCU; (iii) carrying out the subproject
implementation accounting; (iv) promoting the auditing following the Bank's
guidelines and procedures; and (v) maintaining effective coordination with the
PPCU management and other provincial divisions and the specialized
counterparts within the provincial MCE.
(d) Institutional Develogpment. (i) Establishing the required plan of action to
implement the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the provincial MCE
at the provincial level in the framework of the decentralization process; (ii)
translating, in conjunction with the PPCU Planning, Programming, and
Monitoring Division, the action plan in specific programs, procedures,
schedules, budgets, and disbursement outflows, required by the implementation
of this component; (iii) monitoring the implementation of all subcomponents
contained in this subproject component; (iv) informing to the PPCU manager
of any significant deviations in subproject targets and procedures related to this
component according to prescribed standards; and (v) coordinating all
evaluation activities required by this component during the life of the
subproject.
(e)   Ouality Improvement. (i) Establishing the required plan of action to
implement a quality improvement measure included in the subproject; (ii)
translating, in conjunction with the provincial MCE executing unit, the action
plan, specific program, procedures, schedules, budgets, disbursement
outflows, required by the implementation of the subcomponent; (iii)
exchanging experience among provincial subprojects in the implementation of
the quality improvement subcomponents; (iv) monitoring the implementation of
all components and subcomponents containing quality improvement measures;
(v) informing the PPCU manager of any significant deviations in subproject
targets and suggesting corrective action; and (vi) coordinating all evaluation
activities required by the components and subcomponents related to quality
improvement measures of the subproject.
(f)   Infrastructur. (i) Executing physical infrastructure of the provincial subproject
in those components and subcomponents related to construction, remodeling,
and expansion; (ii) preparing the design, technical plan, and specifications for
all physical infrastructure; (iii) exchanging experience among provincial
subprojects in the implementation of the infrastructure component; (iv)
monitoring and supervising the implementation of all components and
subcomponents aimed at infrastructure improvement; (v) informing the PPCU
manager in any significant deviations of subproject targets and suggesting
corrective action; and (vi) coordinating all evaluation activities required by the
components and subcomponents related to infrastructure in the subproject.



- 174 -                             Annex P
IV. Staffing Requirements
6.    The NPCU and each PPCU would be staffed by a core team of high level
professionals with qualifications and experiences satisfactory to the Bank. This core team
would be headed by one full-time project leader trained in planning and management. Full-
time specialists in accountancy with experience in planning, programming, monitoring, and
evaluation; procurement; financing, accounting and evaluation and auditing; institutional
development; quality improvement; and infrastructure will be supported by full-time and
part-time specialists and full-time secretarial and administrative staff. The personnel
distribution among NCPU and PPCU by subunits is shown in table P.2 of this annex.



-175-                                                Annex P
Chart P.1: Project Coordination Organizational Chart
| National MinisCtryo|
of Culture * Education
(NUCE)
Provincal  Suinbirjct       
oCuloutun    U Eduei alo
(PME)
PrTeumnical Sicrngtr  Parnoga c ting n
on  Op  ations                               Evalsuatton
Projon                        Project
CoordinCtion _oConsultati
Umit (NPCU)                  Council (PEC)
.      ..   . .    ..    . .    . .    . .   . .  I.  .    . .    ..   ..   .   ..    ...   ... ... .    .   .    . .
Provincial Subproject
C oordination     Units      Subproject      .      .     .     .   .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .  
(PPCUSI                                   Ntoc   upoe   
_Planning, Progra mming & Evaluation       _rocurerment
_Procunement                               _Fln ncing and Aacounting
_Financing, Acctg. & Auditing              -Administration
_ nstltutlonal Ocvclopment
-Ouallty ImproVement
_Infrastructure
M onitoring Planninlg     |Techlnical Aasbstance           Adrmtinis tmtbn
a nd Evaluation Unit  |             Unit           || Unit
-Direct Responsibility
..... .. . . . ..   Coordinatlon



- 176 -                             Annex P
Table P.1: Distribution of Responsibilities for Project Implementation
Type of function or responsibility:
a - Principal responsibility for overall project and the National project
b - Principal responsibility for the national and provincial subprojects
c - Coordination
d - Clearance
Ministry of
IBRD     Economy   MCE   NPCU   GP  PPCU
1. Loan and Subsidiary Agreements
1.1 Project Agreement
-Signature                         a          a          d
-compliance with execution                                        a
covenants
-compliance with loan covenants                                  a
-compliance with financial                                       a
covenants
1.2 Subsidiary Agreements
-Signature                         d          a          a              a
-compliance with execution                                       c              b
covenants
-compliance with loan covenants                                  c              b
-compliance with financial                                       c              b
covenants
2. Coordination
2.1 With the Bank                                                     a
2.2 With the provincial subproject                                    a             b
2.3 With the ministries involved                             d               b
2.4 With the Banco de la Naci6n                                       a



-177 -                                  Annex P
Ministry of
IBRD   Economy  MCE  NPCU  GP PPCU
2.5  With the international agencies                                        a               b
2.6 With the provincial executing                                                           b
agencies
2.7  Coordination of Consulting                                    a
Committee
3. Planning Control, Monitoring,
and Supervision
3.1  Physical and financial                                                a/c              b
3.2  Technical assistance, instructional                                    a               b
materials, teacher training,
curriculum development,
fellowships, etc.
3.3  Subproject implementation                                              c'              b
3.4  Reports from:
-Agencies to PPCU                                                                      b
-PPCU to NPCU                                                          c               b
-NPCU to the Bank                                                      a
-NPCU to other ministries                                              a
3.5  Supervision
-Overall project                     a/b2/'                            a
-Subproject                                                            c               b
4. Budget
4.1  Provision of counterpart funds                                b                b
1. Only for the national subproject
2. All direct communication between the Bank and any province (PPCU) will be copied or
notified to the NPCU.
3. The NPCU will be informed in advance of all visits of Bank staff to the provinces.
NPCU staff would normally participate in visits and be informed of these results.



- 178 -                              Annex P
Ministr-y of
IBRD     Economy    MCE   NPCU   GP  PPCU
4.2 Provision of extemal funds           a                              c
(IBRD)
5. Procurement
5.1  List and specifications                                            c             b
5.2 Definition of type of bidding        a                              c             b
(LCB, ICB, or other)
5.3  Standard bidding document           a                              d             b
5.4 Bid publication                                                     c             b
5.5  Receipt of bid and evaluation                                      c             b
5.6 Approval and award
-Below a set value (post-approval)  a                              c             b
-Above a set value (prior-          a                              c             b
approval)
5.7 Contract execution, reception, and                                  c             b
installation
6. Reimbursement
6.1 Request to NPCU for                                                               b
reimbursement
6.2 Consolidate reimbursement request                                   a
6.3 Send reimbursement requests to                                      a
Bank
7. Payment and Disbursement
7.1  Request for IBRD disbursement                                      a
following standard procedures
7.2 Request disbursement from the                                       4
Banco de la Naci6n (special
account)
4. To be consolidated by NPCU. Disbursement will be sent directly to provinces by the
Banco de la Nacidn.2



- 179 -                                    Annex P
Table P.2: Project Coordination Units (PCUs)
Staffing Requirements by Function
Function       National   Cordob8   La Pamna    Mendoza    Msiones   Nuuign   Rio Naom   Santa Fd
P  TC  S  P  TC  S  P  TC  S  P  TC  S   P  TC  S P  TC  S  P  TC  S  P  TC  S
Coordination    2  1   1  1        1  1        1  1        1   1        1 1        1  1        1  1        1
Institutional  1   1          1        1           1            1          1           1   1          1
Development
Quality        1              1   1  1             1            1       1 1            1   2          1    1
Improvement
Infrastructure    1            1       1           1            1          1           1   1           1
Plan., Prog.,    4   1     1               1       1            1              1           1       1
Mon., Eva
Procurement    3       1           1           1           1    1              1  1            1  1         1
Finan., Act,   4                   1                  1             1   1      1   1       1       1       1
Audit
Total          16  3   2  2   3   4  4  1   2  5  1   2   5   2   3 4  3   3   4   6   2    3
P = Professional Staff
TC = Technical Staff, Consultant
S = Support Staff
1' Includes NPCU and Technical Secretariat of Operations



-180-                             Annex Q
ANNEX Q: Loan Quarterly Cumulative Disbursement Profile
Quarter Ending          Appraisal   Cumulative
Estimate          9
(US$ million)
EY9
September                   0.0          0.0
December                   12.0           6.3
March                      19.2          10.1
June                       29.4          15.5
FY96
September                  41.9          22.1
December                   53.9          28.4
March                      68.0          35.8
June                       81.2          42.7
FY97
September                  92.2         48.5
December                  104.0         54.7
March                     115.2         60.6
June                      127.1         66.9
FY98
September                 136.1         71.6
December                  143.7         75.6
March                     150.7         79.3
June                      157.7          83.0
FY99
September                 167.2         88.0
December                  175.7         92.5
March                     184.0         98.8
June                      190.0        100.0



-181-                              Annex R
ANNEX R. MONITORING AND IMPACT INDICATORS
The key performance and monitoring indicators are listed in Tables 1 and 2 below. With
regard to Table 1, it is important to note that in the education sector it is unrealistic to set
hard and fast targets on, and efficiency for the short and medium term. This is largely due to
the very slow and sometimes unpredictable response of the education system to change.
However, it is advisable to monitor the change of the below mentioned indicators over time,
expecting improvements when compared with the following base information.



E'r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ U
........    ...   ...                                                                                  _
as a,
....~~~~~~~~.               ... .      .     .....                                                                   .                .. .  iF
U' .             .      .        J     @ tA          -    E. 
i.        .     .   .   .         .     .     .         .     . .
:    :     :     :      :   :bb :      :::
^   -   -  .   .*                          U't                                      ! 
o .... ....... 80                                 8     C 
'0.                            .                 ....~                                   if08
*      i -  .      -              .     .    .                                          8}
~~~..a   e.   .-.>figWos 
~~~*                   *'   .           .                                        .  t:  - }
X xauuv        ~0                                                -Z1



indicators and Frequecy of   Neci;n           Cordoba         LA P noy       Mendoza       Misiones     NeUqu6D    Rio Negro       Santa F6
Review_ 
M.-d-Tcmi Irview md End of   Dme   Target    ae| Target         e   Targ    Ba   T t  lame Target  am  Tare  Dame Target  BDae   Targd
Project           1993    1999    1993    199999                                   J3 1999   3  1   1.3  1999       1     ,3   1999
6. Share of  Tol Education
WaeSa in:   Expendiur
70.56     Fs.   12.50    P.S.  82.20   F.S. 73.60   P.S. 14.3   P.S. 34.19   P.S.    73.44    P.S.
7
Total Secondary
EdUCatioO
76.5    70.0   333    *4.0   U.37  U3.32  92.1  39.0 93.2  90.0  95.5  90.5    85.12  10.12
7. Share of Goods and Seavicm
(rextbook., Teacher TTeining
etc.) in Total Expenditum                       9.5    12.0    6.0    9.0    2 .            U 7.4   2 .09   5.00  1.6   6.   0.41  5.41  0.16   5.16
To be Defined Afler
Iylemenation of SeoarO
Productvity Study
3. Ratio 3_Wf arnLb  for                      12.22     P.S.    3.38    P.S   10.2   PS.  10.7  P.S. 3.76   P.S.  9.66   P.S.        631    P.S.
9. Ratio Adnishativ            P.S     PS.    P.S.      P.S.    P.S.    P.S.    P.S.   PS.   P.S.   P.S. P.S.   P.S.  P.S.   P.S.     P.S.   P.S.
PftmnneTacr or O0er
Adminiartiw Efficincy
Indicator
10. Use of thyia Spac         PS.    P5.       P.S.     P.S.    PS.    P.S.    P5S  P.S.  P.S.  P.S. P.S.   P.S.  P.S.   P.S.        P.S.   P.S.
P5. - Firm to be ddamined folowing Sector Producaivity Study.
- Sig4mim bck of informatios to be filld in folwing Educational Cenua (1995).



-184-                                                   Annex R
Table R.2 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Nacldn
Action Plan                              Overall      1995       1996       1997        199       1999
Target
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGCHENING
Devebpment of National Management
Information System
Studies carried out (design of              109         33         14         37           4        22
system and articulation with
provinces)
Educational census carried out                6          6
Staff trained for census                  6,000      6,000
Staff trined for NMIS                      1,753       377        376        562         220       218
Computer equipment installed                200        102         60          6          20        12
Communications equipment instaled            2S         14          14
Information system in placc                  55         14          14         2          19         6
Development of the Nationl Student
Assessment System
Diagnostic studies implemented               45         24          6          6           6         6
Didactic materias for training and       108,010    20,502      17,502    21,502      23,502    23,502
dissemination
Evaluations carried-out                      S0         10          6         13           6        1S
Items constructed                        25,000      5,000       5,000     5,000       5,000     5,000
Mcuurement instruments clabormed            142         24         24         29          30       43
Number of students tetd                4,720,000  2,92,000   1,755,900   415900   1,755,900   499,400
Staff trained                             9,779      2,750       1,750     1,260       1,260     1,260
Equipment installed
Computers                                   49        33                    16
Communications                              26        26
Optical reader                               1         1
Office equipment                             3         3



-185-                                          Annex R
Table R.2 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Nacidn
Action Plam                               Overal       1995        1          1997        19s       1999
Target
Strengtheining of Management,
Fimanckal,
and Administrative Capacity
Studies carriedout                            48         20          12          9           4         3
Didactic material distributed                 135        67          17         17          17         17
Staff trained                                 925       325         300        100         100        100
Computer systems installed                    30                     30
Management and budgeting systens in             9                      1                     4         4
place
Upgrading the Skills of Administrative
Professionals
Computer equipment installed                    3         3
Studies carried out                             5         5
Study tours carried out                       40                     10         10          10         10
* Includes activities for budget progrmming and financial managenme
Scholanhips                                   370        50          80         so          10         s0
Postgrduate progrms financed in local           4          1           1         1            1         1
universities
Students trained in loa universities          300                    S0         7S          75        100
Didactic materials financed                   300                    S0         75          75        100
Rationalization of the Use of Playsial
FaciNLies and Development of the
National Center for Research and
Documentation (NCRD)
Communications equipment instaled in          25         25
NCRD
Computer equipment installcd in NCRD          50         50
Rchabilitation of Paaguay Annex                 1          1
Rehabilitation of NCRD                          1         1
RacionalizAcidan Epacio MCE                     1         1



-186                                           Annex R
Table R.3 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule
Cordoba Subproject
Action Pln                            Overal      1995       1996        1997        1998        1999
Target
1. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Development of Educational
Innovations Progra
Studi caarried out                          4                      1           1           1          1
Personnel rabined                        4,344        24         675       1,215       1,215      1,215
Training seminmu                             8         8
Grants assigned                            165        33          33          33          33         33
Quality evaluations carried out            132                    33          33          33         33
Development of Information
Technlobg Program
Equipment instaled                           I         S
Didactic maera  distributed                 60                                30          30
Infornation systems working                 77                    75           2
(each information sytan - 15 PCr)
Studies finished                            2          2
Staff trined                            17,885     3,750       4,026       4,706       4,916      4,906
Semin                                       80        12          18          14          22         14
Updating of Curriculum
Studies carried-out                          1         1
PCromne ib d                              t00                    800
Seminan                                      1                     1
11. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
Establisment of Modero
Administrative Organiztion with
EEcieat Norms and Procedures
Computeroquipmnct instaLW                   8                      S
Studia carr-out                             2          2



-187-                                          Annex R
Table R.3 Yearly Project Physical Targets and lmplementation Schedule
Cordoba Subproject
Action Plan                            Overall    199S        1996        19          1998        1999
Target
Information systemsin place                 27                      3           S           3          8
New normative system in place                2          2
Personnel redistributeincorporated          25         25
Staff trained                              475                    475
Vehicles                                     2          2
Seminan carried-out                          S                      S
Furniture                                    4          4
Communication Equipment                      2          2
Deveopment and Implementation of
a Human Resource Policy
Studies carried-out                          2          1           1
Development of Educational and
Financial Planning Capacity
Didactic material distributed           90,120                     30      30,030      30,030     30,030
Studies carried-out                          4          2           2
Planning ndbudgetingsystemin plae           25          3          13           4           4           1
Information systems in place                 1                                  1
Personnel redistributed/incorporated         9          9
Staff trained                              312                     78          78          78         7S
Seminars carried-out                        44                     11          11          11         11
Student assessment tests carried out         6                                  2           2          2
Studies carried-out for planning and         3          2           1
maintenance of sector's infratructure
(SI)
Planning and budgeting systems               I                      I
in place for SI
Information system in place for SI           1                      1
Staff trained for planning and              24         24
maintenance of SI



-188-                                          Annex R
Table R.3 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule
Cordoba Subproject
Acion Pl                               Oveall      199S       1996        1997        1998        1999
Taqat
Development of Manaeomt
inforntioon System
Compuer equipmet installed                   8          8
Information sstem. in plfce                  2                                  2
Staff trined                                99         24          75
Development of Student Asment
Didactic matrial distributed            82,940     12,280      15,665      16,065      17,865      21,065
Studiecaxriod out                            2          1           1
Evaluations of student achievement           6                                  2           2          2
caried out (number of tests)
Ill. INFRAES1UCTURE IMPROVEMENT
Consrucdon ad Equipment of
Regionl Educatial Administration
Delegtiou (DRAE)
Construction of DRAE                         7          5           2
Equipment of DRAB                        1,200      1,200



-189-                                          Annex R
Table R.4 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Inplementation Schedule - La Pampa
Action Plan                                      Overnl      1995      1996      1997     1998      1999
Target
1. EDUCATIONAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Development of Curriculum and
Provision of Educational Materiah
Didactic material (modules) distnbuted             60         60
Didactic materials to reduce drop-out          24,300              14,400    7,700    2,200
distnbuted
Grants to low-resource students assigned          119                             5        5        109
Human Resources Training
Staff trained                                   7,400        431      S10    1,785       775      3,599
Didactic material distributed                   2,750      1,250      500       500      500
Fcllowships assigned                               50         10       10        10        10        10
Study tours carried-out                           100         20       20        20       20         20
Studies
Studies on curriculum reform carnied-out            2          2
Study on compensatory policies to improve           1                   1
achievement carried-out
Development of Scientific and
Technological Innovations Program
Computer equipment installed                      497         65      108       108      108       108
Didactic material distributed                     532        237      207        8S
Information systems in place                        5                   S
Laboratories distributed                           50                                     50
School projects financed                           63         30       33
11. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Establshment of Modern Administrative
Organizations with E5fciet Norms and
Procedures
Ministcrial Lcvel
Computer equipment installed                        3          3
Redesign of administrative procedures               2                   2
(operation manuals)
Distribution of didactic matrial with             300        150      150
new procedures
Didactic material central lbrary                  430                 200       210        10        10



-190-                                          Annex R
Table R.4  Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - La Pampa
Action Pla                                       Overl       1995      1996      1997     1993      1999
Target
Study (maintenance of sector's                      I                   I
infratructure)
Didactic material for trmining on                 200                 200
infstructure maintenance
School Lcvd
Didactic material ditrbuted (set)                 *70        250      380       120      120
Didactic equipmnt distributed                     120                  40        40       40
Computer equipment in place                        99         99
Information systems in place                      100         99        1
Staff trainini
Didactic naterial distibuted                    8,817      2,371    2,186    2,350    1,200        710
Staff tained                                    3,993        683      962    1,308       670       370
Devdopmenat of Manoaeumet Information System
Didactic material distributed                   1,500                 600       300      300       300
Information system in place                         4                   4
Personnel incorporated                              4          4
Computer equipment instled                         41         41
Communications equipment installod                  2          2
Development of Student Assessment System
(SAS)
Didactic mtl distributed                           40                  40
Studies camed-out                                   3                   3
Evaluations carried-out (students)              8,352       357    6,924        357      357       357
Ill. INFRAESTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT
New Constructions
Construction of schools carried out                 4          1        2         1
Construction of Regional Office carried out         7                             4        1         2
Rebabilitation
Gas installed in xchoob                            15          *        7
Additios
Furniture                                       3,589       267    4,138    3,256        439       489
Schools expanded                                    4          1        1         1        1



-191-                                        Annex R
Table R.S Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Mendoza
Action Plan                                  OveraU    1995      1996     1997       1993      1999
Target
1. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Human Resources Training
Staff trined                                   7,790    1,558    1,553      1,553     1,555     1,558
Didactic materials for training in              600       120      120       120        120      120
school management and curriculum dev.
distributed (st)
Didactic materiab for basic                    1,900      380      380       380        380      380
disciplines distributed (sets)
Didactic material for classroom management     5,290    1,058    1,058      1,058     1,058     1,058
(units)
Studies carried-out                               5         1        1         1          1        1
Provyion of Didactic Materials
and Equipment
Production and provision of textbooks         16,432    6,480    5,400      4,552
Distribution of didactic materials             1,400                                    700      700
used in Student Assessment System
Library furniture distnbuted (sets)              101      101
School Libraries distributed (full rets)         131      131
Staff trained to use of video equipment         400       400
Educational video equipment                    2,881      681      550       550        550      550
(sets of television and videocassette)
Educational videos distributed                 1,250      250      250       250        250      250
Staff trained to us computer equipment         2,000      400      400       400        400      400
Computer equipment installed                      3        3
Science lboratorAes insalled                     170       53       87
Information workshops (PCs) installed          2,032      800    1,232
Staff trining (teachers)                       2,500      500      500       500        S00      S00
Training (student)                            73,561   24,520   49,041
Didactic Equipment                              226        St       87        51
Promotion of Science and I echnobgy Progam
Didactic equ;pment insWtlld                      40        40
Staff trie                                     7,353      332    1,794      1,744     1,744     1,744
T.:achers Libaries intalled                       a         2        2         4
Scminars                                       1,390       30      442       306        306      306



-192-                                          Annex R
Table R.5 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Mendoza
Action Plan                                    Overal    199S      1996       1997      1998       1999
Target
Compensatory Program for Adult Secondary
Education (PROCEMA)
Computer equipment installed                        3         3
Studies carried-out                                 4         4
Didactic materials distributed                  77,000   34,000    4,500    29,500        4,500     4,500
Development of new nornative                         1        1
framevrk (document)
Staff trained                                      1S0       60        60         60
Furniture                                          535      535
Improvement of Student Achievement
Program for Secondary Education
(PROMEREM)
Computer systems installed                           3        3
Studies carried-out                                  2        2
Sets of didactic materials distributed             375      125       125        125
Didactic material distributed                   28,756   11,340    9,450       7,966
(textbooks)
Peronnel trined                                    25                             25
Curriculum Development
Studies carried-out                                  2        2
1. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Estabishmet of Modern Administrative
Organizations with Efficient Norms and
Procedures
Redesign of stucures (document)                      1        1
Staff trained on new structures                  1,120    1,120
Development of new procedures                      160                100        20         20        20
(seas- operational manuals)
Staff trained on new procedures                  1,120              1,120
Reformnulaon of new norms affecting sector           1        1
Staff trained on new normr                       1,120              1,120
Development of Educational and Fiancial
Planning Capacity
Information systems in place                        6         2         1          1         1         1
Staff traned on infomation systane               2,890    2.890



-193-                                         Annex R
Table R.5 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementatlon Schedule - Mendoza
Action Plan                                  Overall   1995       1996     1"7        1m9       199
Target
Design and Development of Human Resource
Policy
Document with new pay scale (technical             1                  1
assistance)
Operation manuals and disemmination              603                          201        201       201
materials with new policy (set)
Staff trined                                   1,120                         1,120
Development of Management Information
System
Information systems (PCs) in place             9,291    1,038    7,315        338        300       300
Staff trained                                    560      560
Development of Student Assessment System
Computer equipment installed                      25       17         2         2          2         2
Didactic material distributed                  14,390    2,430    2,990     2.990      2,990     2,990
Office equipment installed                       360      120        60        60         60        60
Study tours carried-out                           60       12        12        12         12        12
Scholarships carried-out                          60       12        12        12         12        12
Evaluations carried-out                       190,000   38,000   38,000    38,000    38,000    38,000
(students)
111. INFRAESTRUCTURE
Rehabilitations
Schools rehabilitated                             11       11
Additions
Additions to schools carried out                  37       21        16
Furniture                                      9,803    3,698    2,751       1,716     1,633
New Constructions
Construction of schools carried out               12                  4         S          3



-194-                                         Annex R
Table R.6  Yearly Project Physlcal Targets and Implementation Schedule - Misiones
Action Pln                                     Ovenl      199S      1996       1997      1998       1999
Target
L. EDUCATIONAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Proviion of textbooks, reading and Instructional
materi
Libray fumitur (sets)                         1,162
Librry bookr distributed                      75,835    47,935    9,544      12,282    4,477      1,597
Maps distributed                              2,350    2,350
Distribution of atl                           5,000                          5,000
Laboratories installed                        198                 47         58         49        44
Provision of audiovisual equipment            74                  74
Studies carried out                           1                    1
Training of Human Resource
Coursecarried out                             45                  25         10         5         5
Staff trained                                 25,492               8,416     1,558      4,259     4,259
Didactic nateral ditributed                   25,342               8,326     3,498      4,259     4,259
Studie carried out                            5                    1         1          1         I
Perronnel redustributed                       50        S0
Strgtbening and Expansio  of
Open and Dnce Education Progrm
Didactic material distributed                 29,400              5,800      16,700    6,700
Didactic equipment insalled                   78                  78
Schoolarhips                                  16                   8         I
Staff trained                                 417                  163       127        127
Studiescarried out                            9         1          5         1          1         1
Courses carried out                           S                   3          1          1
Upgrading o Curribulu
Studies carried out                           2         1          1
Didactic naterial distributed                 4,000               4,000
11. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Establishment of Modern Admnlstrative
Organizatioas witm Efficlt Norms and
Proceduru
Management producVviy study carried out       1         1
Development of Educaioa and Fiail
Planning Cpawity
Furniture delivery (set)                      26        26



-195-                                         Annex R
Table R.6 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Misiones
Action Plan                                    Overal    l99S        1996      1997       199S      1999
Target
Computer equipment insalld                    25        25
Personnel redistributed                       30        6         6          6         6          6
Didactic material distributed                 400       200       200
Office equipment                              1         1
Devdopment of Management Iaformaon System
Furniture                                     54        30         12        12
Computer equipment inalled                    443       61                   191        191
Coursc carried out                            *         2         4          1          1
Didactic material distnbuted                  600       300       300
Institutionl Developmet Fund                  2         1          1
Studies carried-out                           S         5         2          1
Planning and budgeting system                 1                    1
functioning
Staff tained                                  487       100       200        96         91
Communication equipment delvered              84                             42        42
Development of Student Assessment
Sysem
Computer equipment instld                     10        3                    7
Textbooks distributed                         100       100
Study tous carried-cut                         1S       1S
Evaluations of student achievement carried out  20,000                       1,000     2,000      17,000
(students)
Furniture Delivered                           a         2                    6
PersonnelRedistrbuted                         42        6         9          9         9          9
Program to Maintain the Secrs Infrastrutre
Staff trining                                 222       46        72        5s          46
Didactic material distributed                 300       60        70         100        70
Courses carried out                           4         1          1         1          1         1
Maintenance kits distnbuted                   111       23         36        29         23
111. INFRAESTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT
Rehabilitation
School rehabilitation carried out             25                   11        17
Rehabilitation of Ministry carried out        1         1
Frishing of works nder way
Schools completed                             6                   6



-196-                                          Annex R
Table R.6 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Misiones
Action Plan                                     Overal    199s        1996       1997       1998       1999
Trgct
New Consuctions
Cosruction of school compLted                   2                              2
Contruction of Regional Offices completed       4                              2          2
Equipmen
Distbution of equpenrt carried out              22,140    5,186     4,908      6,225      5,821



-197-                                            Annex R
Table R.7 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Neuquen
Action Plan                                     Overal     1995       1996       1997       1998       1999
Target
1. EDUCATIONAL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Training of Hums Resource
Coures                                            24         a          8          S
Didactic materials distributed (sets)            420      412           2          2          2         2
Personnel trained                              3,000     1,000      1,000      1,000
Studies carriedout                                14         7          2          3          1          1
Personnel incororated/reditr;ibuted               56        56
Work station (informatic)                          1         1
Furniture delivered (set)                          1         1
Office equipmcnt/delivered                         1         1
Updating of Curriculum
Studies carried out                               15        10          5
Personnel redistributed/incorporated             107        98                     3          3         3
Study tours crried out                            27                               9          9         9
Scholanhips allocated                             90                              30         30        30
Staff trined                                     150                  150
Counss carried out                                 1         1
Provision of Information Equipment
to the Schoob
Studies carried out                                2         2
Computer equipment instaled                      555                 270         240         20        25
Didactic equipment installed                     359                  170        189
Didactic material distibuted                     145                   45         40         30        30
(school librries)
n. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGrHENING
Updating of Norms and Procedures and
Development of Planning Capacity
Redesign of planning and budgeting units           3         3
(documents)
Redesign of norms and procedures                   1         1
(documents)
Staff training                                 1,050     1,050
Studies carried out                                4         4
Coures carried out                               110       110



-198-                                          Annex R
Table R.7 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Neuquen
Action Plan                                    Overal    199S       1996       1997      1998       1999
Target
Dectrlization and Strengthening of
School Management
Studies on new forms of school management       25         5          S         S          5         S
Staff trmined                                 2,920    1,400      1,520
Development of Management Information
system
Information systems in place (network)           5         1          1          1          1         1
Staff trained                                 1,644       12        216        372       682       362
Computer equipment installed                   500        29                   223       248
Communications equipment installed              20                             20
Studies carried out                               3        2          1
Counes carried out                              140                  1S        32         58         32
Student Assessment System
Computer equipment                               5         5
Staff trined                                   481       102        104        93         93         89
Evaluations of student achievement            4,400               1,400       600        800      1,600
carried out (sudents)
Peronel redistributed/incorporated              79        19         14         16        20         10
Scholarships                                     6         3          3
HI. INFRAESTRUCTURE
New Constructions
Construction of schooa carried out               5         1          2         2
Constrction of the provincial faciie              1        1
Purniture delivered                           3,257               2,596       661



-199-                                         Annex R
Table R.8 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Rio Negro
Action Plan                               Overall      1995       1996      1997        1998       1999
Target
I. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Updating of Curriculum and
Staff Trainin
Seminar carried out                          178        13         47        15           7         96
Nbiht Scho
Development of didactic material             230                  230
(modules)
Staff trained                                347                  202        55          90
School L;braries distributed               2,640                1,000      1,640
Day School
Development of didactic materials              3         1          2
(modules)
Staff trained                             13,122      2,045     2,800      2,203      2,074      4,000
Development of new didactic                1,600                1,600
materials (units)
Didactic material distributed             80,787    19,400    32,316      16,171     12,900
(units)
Informatic equipment delivered (set)          47                   23        24
Furniture (units)                            200        60         60        40          40
Didactic equipment delivered                 117                   59        S8
Development of Reading and
Writing Skilkl Program
Studies (didactic materials development)       3         1          1         1
Staff trained                              2,124       708        708       708
Evaluation. of program                         3                                          2          1
Didactic materials distnbuted             34,940               11,470    11,740      11,730
H. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGT~HENING
DecentralIztion of the
Educ2tional Seetwr
Studies carried out                           12        10          2
Staff traine                                 235        4S         Is        60          42
Grants assigned to Consejos                  600                            200         200        200
Escolare Locales
Computer equipmcat installed                 217        95                   to          42
Information equipincniinstalled               55        1 1                  30          14
Office furnitume instaUled                   640       101                  330         209



-200-                                          Annex R
Table R.8 Yearly Project Physical Targets and Inplementation Schedule - Rio Negro
Action Plan                                 Overall      199S       1996       1997       1998        1999
Target
Vehicles distributed                           10          3                    4            3
Didactic material distributed               5,050      1,650      1,700      1,700
Seminars                                     1,310       330        330       328         322
Development of Educational and
Financial Planning Capacity
Stafftrained                                  554        288        166        50          50
Computer equipment insUaed                    402                   402
Office furniture instaUed                     134                   134
Grants assigned to Institutional               50         15         15        10          10
Councils
Management Information System
and Student Assessment System
Computer equipment instaUed                   108
Didactic naterial distributed               4,937      1,420      1,405       704        1,404          4
Studies carried out                           512        207        304          1
Staff trained                                 557                   523        20           14
Evaluations of student achievement         28,040                 7,010      7,010       7,010      7,010
(students tested)
Office furniture delivered                     49         32         10         7
Coursa carried out                             32         10         14         4           3
111. INFRAESTRUCTURE
Rehabilitation
School rchabilitation carried out              67          2         IS        17          17          16
Adddions
Additions to school carried out                 2                               1           1
New Constructions
Construction of Provincial                      1                               1
Education Council caried out
Construction of Regional Office.                9                               3           6
carried out



-201-                                          Annex R
Table R.9 Yearly Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Santa Fe
Action Plan                                    Overll      1995        1996        1997        1993        1999
Target
I. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Provision of Education Materials and
Equipment
School desks delivered                         9,900                 9,900
Chairs delivered                               9,900                 9,900
Blackboards delivered                           330                    330
Library cases delivered                          110                   110
Computers delivered                              110                   110
Regional laboratories delivered                    8                     8
Televisions delivered                             10                    10
Videocassetes delivered                           10                     10
Tape players delivered                            10                     10
Slide proyectors delivered                        10                    10
Video cameras delivered                           10                     10
Textbooks and other didactic materials       330,000               330,000
(units)
Training of Human Resources
Staff trained                                  3,000      1,000       1,000       1,000
Courses delivered                                24          8           I           8
Studies on Technical Education Curriculum
Studies carried out                               1S         7           6           2
Courses delivered                                  1                     1
Staff trained                                    150       150
11. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Administrative Reform
and Decentralization
Studies carried out                                2         2
Organic structures and new p-ocedures             19                    19
in place
Informatic system in place                         4                     4
Courues delivere                                 65         :3          47           5
Staff trained                                  1593        270        1,053        270



-202-                                          Annex R
Table R.9 Yearly Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule - Santa Fe
Action Plan                                    Overall      1995       1996        1997        1998        1999
Target
Development of Educational and Fmancial
Management Capacity
Adminisrative personnel trined                   400       200         200
2,552        26       1,276       1,250
Directors and Supervisors trained
Cusos carried out                                 63         1          42          20
Development of Student Assessment System
Penonnel ressigned                               s0         16          16          16          16          16
Evaluations of student achievement carried        16                     4           4           4           4
out (years of cycle covered)
Computer equipment installed                       1         1
Studies carried out                                1         1
111. INFRAESTRUCTURE
Rehabliltatlios
Rehabilitation of schools carried out             26         6          13           7
Rehabilitation of Regional Offices                 2                     2
New Constructions
Constraction of Regional Offices carried out      5                                  2           2           1
School furniture delivered                    28,063     8,033      10,861       8,945         150         74



Table R.10 Supervision Arrangements
TOTAL
NCPU AND SUBPROJECT                                            STAFF WEEK (SW)                                              MISSION                     (SW)
COMIPONENTS                                                                                                         COMPOSITION
ms                 FY96              7EX              EYM                ElM
1. National Project                 4                  4                  2                 1                 1         TM, PR, AV, DO,                    12
Coordination Unit (NPCU)                                                                                                 SA
2. National Subprojeet             3 (1)              3 (1)             2 (1)             2 (1)               1          TM, CA, MIS, A                  11(4)
3. CordobaSubproject               3 (1)              3 (1)             2 (1)               1                 I          TM, TT, CA, A,                  10(3)
SB, CD, ID
4. La Pmpa Subprojet               S (1)              S (1)             3 (1)            2 (0.5)            2 (0.5)      TM, ID, TT, A                   17(4)
MIS
S. MendozaSubproject               5 (1)              5 (1)             2 (1)            2 (0.5)              I          TM, MIS, CA,                   16(3.5)
CD, A
6. Misiones Subprojeot             5 (1)              S (1)             3 (1)             2 (0.5)           2 (0.5)      TM, ID, MIS, TX,                17(4)
'Tr, DE, CD, A
7. NcuqudnSubprojet                5 (1)              5 (2)             3 (1)            2 (0.5)            2 (0.5)      TM, MIS, SAS,                   17(4)
IT, CD, A, ID
s Rio NegroSubprojet               5 (1)              5 (1)             3 (1)            2 (0.5)            2 (0.5)     TM, ID, MIS,                     17(4)    0
SAS, TT, CD,
SBA, SB, A
9. Santa F Subproject              5 (1)              S (1)             3 (1)            2 (0.5)            2 (0.5)     TM, ID, MIS, CA,                 17(4)
Tr, CD, A
TOTAL (SW)                      40 (8)             40 (8)             23 (8)            16 (4)           14 (2.5)                                  133(30.5)
160,000 (12,000)    160,000 (12,000)   92,000+(12,000)   64,000+(6,000)   56,000+(35,750)                       532,000+(45,750)
TM   -          Task Manager                                                          CD   =          Curriculum Development Specialis
TX    m         Textbook Specialist                                                   ID    =         Institutional Developrnent and financial Specialist
SB    -         School-based project initiatives Specialis                            DE   =          Distanec Education Specialist
IT              Teacher Training Specialist                                           A     =         Architect or Facility Planner
CA       -      Cognitive Assessment Specialist                                       AV              Fuiancial Auditing Specialist
MIS  -          Management Inf. System Specialist                                     SA    =         System Analyst
PR    -         Procurenent Specilist                                                 DO   =          Disbusement Officer
Note: SW in parenheis will be performed by lcal consultans



-204-                               Annex S
ANNEX S: SELECTED DOCUMENIS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN PROJECT FILE
NACION SUBPROJECT
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n, Documento Resumen, Agosto 1993.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n, Subcomponente: Infraestructura Edilicia -
Racionalizaci6n del Espacio, Marzo 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educacion de la Naci6n, Subcomponente: Fortalecimiento
Institucional - Programa de Capacitaci6n de Funcionarios Argentinos del Sector Educativo,
Marzo 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n, Subcom2onente: Sistema Nacional de
Evaluaci6n de la Calidad, Marzo 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n (Secretarfa de Programaci6n y Evaluaci6n
Educativa) Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n ler Operativo Nacional 1993: Resultados
Nacionales, 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n, Subcomponente: Analisis Econ6mico y
Progmmaci6n Presupuestaria, Marzo 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n, Subcomponente: Red Federal de
Informaci6n, Marzo 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n, Subcomponente: Puesta en Valor Biblioteca
Nacional de Maestros, Marzo 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n, Subcomponente: Sistema de Apoyo
Administrativo-Financiero, Marzo 1994.
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n de la Naci6n. Subcomponente: Adecuaci6n Anexo
Paraguay, Marzo 1994.
CORDOBA SUBPROJECT
Componente C6rdoba, Documento Sfntesis, Agosto de 1993.
Componente C6rdoba, Documento Sfntesis, Febrero 1994.



-205-                              Annex S
Componente C6rdoba, Anexo: Analisis y Diagnostico del Sector Educativo Provincial,
Febrero 1994.
Componente C6rdoba, Subcomponente: Mejoramiento de la Calidad - Cuerpo Principal,
Febrero 1994.
LA PAMPA SUBPROJECT
Provincia de la Pampa - Programa Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n, Anexo I, Marzo
1994.
Provincia de la Pampa - Programa Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n, Subcomponente 1:
Fortalecimiento Institucional, Marzo 1994.
Provincia de la Pampa - Programa Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n, Subcomponente 2:
Calidad de la Educaci6n, Marzo 1994.
Provincia de la Pampa - Programa Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n, Anexo II, Marzo
1994.
Provincia de la Pampa - Programa Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n, Anexo III, Marzo
1994.
Provincia de la Pampa - Programa Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n, Cuerpo Principal,
Marzo 1994.
Provincia de la Pampa - Programa Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n, Subcomponente 3:
Infraestructura Edilicia, Marzo 1994.
Provincia de la Pampa - Medidas Destinadas a Mejorar la Calidad Educativa.
MENDOZA SUBPROJECT
Provincia de Mendoza - Direcci6n General de Escuelas, Documento Sfntesis, Agosto 1993.
Provincia de Mendoza - Direcci6n General de Escuelas, Documento Resumen, Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Mendoza - Direcci6n General de Escuelas, Subcomponente: Fortalecimiento
Institucional, Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Mendoza - Direcci6n General de Escuelas, Subcomponente: Fortalecimiento
Institucional (Terminos de Referencia), Febrero 1994.



-206-                              Annex S
Provincia de Mendoza - Direcci6n General de Escuelas, Subcomponente: Calidad de la
Educaci6n, Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Mendoza - Direcci6n General de Escuelas, Subcomponente: Infraestructura
Edilicia y Equipamiento, Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Mendoza - Direcci6n General de Escuelas, Subcomponente: Calidad de Ia
Educaci6n (Terminos de Referencia), Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Mendoza - Proyecto de Descentralizaci6n de la Educaci6n Media.
Provincia de Mendoza - Informacion Complementaria del Memorandum de las Acciones
Efectuadas. en Marcha y Proyectadas. Abril de 1994.
Provincia de Mendoza - Proyecto Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n (M.C.E. - B.I.R.F.).
Subcomponente: Fortalecimiento Institucional.
MISIONES SUBPROJECT
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Documento Resumen, Agosto
1993.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcompionente: -2-
Fortalecimiento Institucional (Cuerpo Principal), Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: -1- Documento
Principal, Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: -4-
Infraestructura Edilicia (Cuerpo Principal), Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: Calidad de la
Educaci6n (Anexo 1), Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: -3-
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n (Cuerpo Principal), Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: -2-
Fortalecimiento Institucional (Anexo 1', Febrero 1994.



-207-                              Annex S
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: 1- Proyecto
Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n M.C.y E. - Provincias - B.I.R.F.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: 2- Proyecto
Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n M.C.y E. - Provincias - B.I.R.F.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: 2.1- Proyecto
Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n M.C.y E. - Provincias - B.I.R.F.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: 3- Proyecto
Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n M.C.y E. - Provincias - B.I.R.F.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: 3.1- Proyecto
Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n M.C.y E. - Provincias - B.I.R.F.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: 4- Proyecto
Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n M.C.y E. - Provincias - B.I.R.F.
Provincia de Misiones, Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Subcomponente: 4.1- Proyecto
Sectorial de Inversi6n en Educaci6n M.C.y E. - Provincias - B.I.R.F.
NEUQUEN SUBPROJECT
Provincia de Neuquen, Secretaria del Estado de Educaci6n, Documento Resumen, Agosto
1994.
Provincia de Neuquen, Secretaria del Estado de Educaci6n, Tomo I - Resumen del
Componente, Febrero de 1994.
Provincia de Neuquen, Secretaria del Estado de Educaci6n, Tomo V - Costos del
Componente Provincial, Febrero de 1994.
Provincia de Neuquen, Secretaria del Estado de Educaci6n, Tomo IV - Subcomponente:
Infraestructura Edilicia, Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Neuquen, Secretaria del Estado de Educaci6n, Tomo II - Subcomponente:
Fortalecimiento Institucional, Febrero 1994.
Provincia de Neuquen, Secretaria del Estado de Educaci6n, Tomo III - Subcomponente:
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n, Febrero 1994.



-208-                              Annex S
RIO NEGRO SUBPROJECT
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - Rio Negro, Documento Sfntesis, Agosto 1993.
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - Rio Negro, Anexo General. Tomo V, Febrero
1994.
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - Rio Negro, Subcomponente Fortalecimiento
Institucional y Calidad de la Educaci6n (Cuerpo Principal), Tomo II, Febrero 1994.
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - Rio Negro, Subcomponente Infraestructura
Edilicia (Cuerpo Principal y Anexos). Tomo IV, Febrero 1994.
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - Rio Negro, Subcomponente Fortalecimiento
Institucional y Calidad de la Educaci6n (Anexos). Tomo II, Febrero 1994.
Consejo de Educaci6n - Rio Negro, Documento: Asignaci6n Recursos A Consejos
Institucionales- Agosto 1993.
SANTA FE SUBPROJECT
Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Fe, Componente Sintesis, Agosto 1994.
Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Fe, Subcomponente de Fortalecimiento
Institucional (Anexo 1), Febrero 1994.
Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Fe, Documento Sintesis del Componente
Santa Fe, Febrero 1994.
Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Fe, Subcomponente Mejoramiento de Ia
Calidad de la Educaci6n (Anexo 2), Febrero 1994.
Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Fe, Subcomponente Infraestructura Edilicia
(Anexo 3), Febrero 1994.
Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Fe, Obra No. 1. Sede Regional III
Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Provincia de Santa Fe, Finalidad Escuela: Obra No. 15.
Escuela Mediana No. 385. Reconquista.



IBRD 20450
'         R       BO0LI V IA                 /60
WaoQ~'co          I      "
,iIi t                                     PARAG   
Co                    N. ~~    PARAGUAY
JUJJUY                                                      .
J   \ pUY            _,                                 2' ~~~~~~B R A Z I L
SALTA                                                                       B   R  A  Z I L
CIo,,ndo          )~gm,d d
\   2    |            \             ~~~~~~~FORMOSA4 Jt I9oairdo
TUCUMAN                      _                                    leonardo y e
RESISTENCI             Posodo'
/             S.onr~        Esttiog  del ECOERoENES                y
.  /        }     ~~R~o                    So.il           URUGUAY
(   ;J9J   C{LA RIOJA                      L  \
30                                                                                                                                              40 /
., SNJUAN                 -ROANT                  /      4oerdo}J
i       ENDOZA   'SAN5       s/<Il  os?wo 
~~~~A  R G  E N  T G N  AY  
BaEor roads
C H ILE  )      I    NRAFAEL                          UN                  ,        AIE
A         PPLATA
.,Bodo% BloIo.-J 
SANTA ROSA                                               P          b
\ 9 s \ \B L~~~AN CA
% } NEUOUEN O~~~~~~uoquw
-40-                     (IEDMA                                                          R          G    E       N    T       I    N   A        '0.
Na~~~~~              Son Corlo da. anriload        .
to,  ~ U, osat 1,
r.ao,anactt.,R   j br                             T,\ Puro  or 4 
Esqu.1                            RAWSON                                  0     Cities and towns
r.d #. /r t Foam. .Major roads
rl  nL   /                                          ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ports
1,J                  /Rivers
Co'oo'.OMOOORO                                                                           Province boundaries
t            \ ~~~RIVADAVIA
. a. dr                                                                      _-.International boundaries
any. ..ro ant 1so
60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-5                 -   '0      Bi      RRIO   GALLEGOS
rt ttd ti* * Sl  k-      , : 
d- . .      t -c--  -.            r    t      
tW. -e V Th. Ktrt  *'-.fIl
P.ef  re d.     t S.-1%   
Pt-ho,W F-   C"-o^ttL                                                              KILOMETERS t'          200        400        tS00        OD0
.W xI~   on R. rrw nrw                  t                                    
of    rO                                       '   'to,-                                 MILES 0        100      20D0     30'0     460      500
o                                       nM- r7                                                              50-
AUGUST 19871



