Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23814
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37940; SCL-3794A; SCPD-3794S; TF-23028; TF-25276; TF-29190)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$190 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTrINA
FOR A
AR-SECONDARY ED 1
03/29/2002
Human Development Sector
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Argentinean Peso
AR$1 = US$ 0.5089 (February 2002)
US$ 1 = AR$1.965
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG            Argentinean Government
AGN           National Auditing Agency
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
ECSE          Education Sector Cost Studies
IDECE         Institute for the Assessment of Quality of Education
IIEP          UNESCO's International Institute of Educational Planning (Buenos Aires office)
NMCE          National Ministry of Culture and Education
NME           National Ministry of Education
NPCU          National Project Coordination Unit
PBA           Province of Buenos Aires
PMEs          Provincial Ministries of Education
PPCU          Provincial Project Coordination Unit
PREGASE       Provincial Institutional Strengthening Program of the PMEs
PRODYMES      Proyecto de Descentralizaci6n y Mejoramiento de la Secundaria y Desarrollo de la
Educaci6n Polimodal
PROFOR        Program for the Training of Managers of the Education Sector
REDFIED       National Education Information System
SAF           Administrative Financial System
SINEC         National Student Assessment System
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Myra L. Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:  Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Juan Prawda



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
AR-SECONDARY ED 1
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             16
6. Sustainability                                                                 21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  23
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                 28
9. Partner Comments                                                               30
10. Additional Information                                                        31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              36
Annex 4. BankInputs                                                               37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             42
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                               43
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                             45
Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution                                                 47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005992                                     Project Name: AR-SECONDARY ED 1
Team Leader: Juan Prawda                                 TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR         | Report Date: March 29, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: AR-SECONDARY ED 1                            LIC/TFNumber: CPL-37940;
SCL-3794A;
SCPD-3794S;
TF-23028; TF-25276;
TF-29190
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: ES - Secondary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 07/28/1992                              Effective: 01/01/1995        08/18/1995
Appraisal:  02/22/1994                              MTR: 07/01/1997           04/20/1998
Approval:  09/15/1994                             Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC/NATIONAL MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND
EDUCATION AND THE MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION OF THE PROVINCES
OF: BUENOS AIRES; ARGENTINE REPUBLIC/MENDOZA; ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC/MISIONES; ARGENTINE REPUBLIC/NEUQUEN; ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC/RIO NEGRO AND SANTA FE.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myrna L. Alexander                       Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      Ana-Maria Arriagada                      Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:  Juan Prawda                              Luis Pisani
ICR Primary Author:  Juan Prawda
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL--Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of this project, known in Argentina as PRODYMES I (Primer Proyecto de Descentralizaci6n
y Mejoramiento de la Secundaria y Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Polimodal), was to increase student
learning in participating provinces through strengthening their and the Borrower's institutional capacity in
the secondary education subsector, under a decentralized framework. It also aimed to: (a) improve the
overall quality and efficiency of secondary education; and (b) increase and enhance the participating
provinces' school facilities to serve better the secondary school-aged population.
The original seven PRODYMES I participating provinces were: C6rdoba, La Pampa, Mendoza, Misiones,
Neuquen, Rio Negro and Santa Fe. These provinces were selected based on evidence of their willingness to:
(i) embrace the secondary education reform; and (ii) co-finance the project with provincial counterpart
funds. In addition, the AG manifested their intention to use PRODYMES I as a learning experience to
include in subsequent sector investments (PRODYMES II) in other provinces under a poverty alleviation
targeting criteria. Accordingly, PRODYMES II was targeted to 630 high-risk secondary schools in the
entire country.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged throughout project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The following three components, to be implemented at the national and provincial levels, were included in
the original Loan Agreement: (i) Institutional Strengthening; (b) Quality Improvement; and (c)
Infrastructure: Construction, expansion and rehabilitation.
Institutional Strengthening included the following five-subcomponents:
1. Establishment and operation of a national management information system (REDFIED) to provide
information on: (a) education statistics; (b) educational infrastructure; (c) socio-demographic trends; (d)
number and profile of the National Ministry of Culture and Education's (NMCE) human resources by level
and location; (e) budgeting and accounting; (f) educational facilities; and (g) educational documentation
and research.
2. Establishment and operation of a national student's assessment system (SINEC) to: (a) provide
information and monitor student academic achievement nationwide; (b) define policies and strategies to
improve education quality; (c) process, create, and disseminate information on student achievement; (d)
assist the provinces in establishing their own student academic achievement tests; and (e) compile academic
achievement information by the provinces.
3. Strengthening of NMCE's management, financiaL and administrative capacity (SAF) by improving: (a)
the administrative and financial accounting system; (b) procurement procedures for the provision and
distribution of didactic and administrative materials; (c) the management and maintenance of physical
facilities; and (d) the management of personnel.
4. Establishment of a postgraduate training program (PROFOR) within Argentina, as well as an abroad
training program for about 200 high-level professionals in the following areas: (a) education policy and
- 2 -



management; (b) economics of education and financing; (c) educational learning assessment; and (d)
curriculum improvement and innovation.
5. Institutional strengthening programs for the NMCE and provincial Ministries of Education (PMEs),
provided assistance in creating: (i) action plans to overcome inefficiencies in the use of human and physical
resources by the NMCE and PMEs, including, among these, a review of the quality and timeliness of
existing personnel databases and their corresponding payroll databases; and (ii) the assessment of
procedures and practices in the personnel department of the NMCE and PME's, through a sample survey
of staffing requirements and salary schedules by function, and an analysis of the NMCE and PME's
policies and practices with regard to personnel compensation, incentives and attendance. Institutional
strengthening programs also targeted the development of: (iii) administrative organizations with efficient
resources and procedures; (iv) educational and financing planning capacity; (v) a human resources policy;
(vi) a management information system; and (vii) student assessment systems. Given the limited capacity of
the participating provinces to carry out the studies and subsequent action plans for the institutional
strengthening subcomponents of this project (from (i) to (vii) above), NMCE decided in 1996 to establish
the Programa de la Reforma de la Gesti6n Administrativa de los Sistemas Educativos Provinciales
(PREGASE) aimed at providing direct technical support as well as implementing a cost model to estimate
the cost of the key factors of the educational reform (ECSE).
Appraisal estimate total cost and  Rating
Components                        financing
(US$ million)
Total     IBRD    Nation &
Provinces
Institutional Strengthening            81.59     55.45     29.53
National education information system                               HS
(REDFIED)
National student assessment system                                  HS
(SINEC)
Strengthening of financing, budgeting                                U
and administrative capacity (SAF)
Education costs and productivity                                     U
program (ECSE)
Training and upgrading of educational                                S
administrators and technical staff
(PROFOR)
Institutional reform of Provincial                                   S
Ministries of Education (PREGASE)
Quality Improvement                    85.43     55.05     38.47
Curriculum development                                               S
Teacher training                                                     S
Textbooks, didactic material and                                     S
equipment
Infrastructure                         74.38     57.33     9.93        HS
National and Provincial Project        27.28     22.18     0.74         S
Coordination Units
Total                                 268.67    190.00     78.67        S
- 3-



Quality Improvement of secondary education included the following activities: (i) curriculum
development; (ii) the provision of in-service teacher training; (iii) the provision of textbooks and other
learning materials; (iv) the development of information workshops; and (v) the development of
school-based grant program.
Infrastructure (construction, expansion and rehabilitation) included the following two sub-components:
(i) the carrying out of an inventory of NMCE's facilities and preparation and implementation of a
rehabilitation and maintenance plan for such facilities; and (ii) the construction, expansion and
rehabilitation of secondary educational schools, and PMEs' regional and local administrative facilities.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project experienced four amendments, none of which substantially affected the original objectives. The
first amendment made to the Loan Agreement on December 21, 1995 (countersigned by the Minister of
Economy and Public Works and Services on February 12, 1996) aimed at addressing slow project start-up.
This slow start was mainly caused by: (i) a lack of provincial counterpart funding; (ii) considerable delays
in the approval and signing of the provincial subsidiary agreements requiring in each case a specific Law of
Indebtedness; (iii) delays in establishing and putting in motion in the provinces qualified implementation
units; (iv) the lack of specific first-year provincial action-plans, especially procurement plans; (v) different
interpretations by NMCE and the PMEs with respect to the decentralization model envisaged by the
education reform; and (vi) an abrupt transfer of secondary schools to the provinces in 1993 which did not
allow for sufficient time to ensure appropriate enabling conditions for a speedy and effective
implementation of this decentralization process at the provincial level. This amendment: (a) defined the
participating provinces more precisely; (b) offered the opportunity to include new provinces during project
implementation; (c) set rules for the continuation of participating provinces in the project; (d) confirmed the
provinces' obligation to make available counterpart funding required for project implementation; and (e)
established project performance indicators and targets and the need to update them. Subsequently, during
the implementation cycle, and based on the flexibility provided by this amendment, the provinces of
C6rdoba and La Pampa, participants under the original Loan Agreement, decided in 1996 not to continue
in PRODYMES I, due to lack of provincial counterpart funds, while the Province of Buenos Aires joined
the project in December 1997.
The second amendment to the Loan Agreement was made on November 19, 1998. This amendment was
requested by the Borrower to reflect mainly an increase in the civil works component and a decrease in the
acquisition of goods under the project. The amendment included: (i) changes to Annex I with respect to
the distribution of the loan proceeds by expenditure category; (ii) changes in Category V for expenditures
of the National and Provincial Coordination Units; and (iii) increases in amounts reimbursable through
Statements of Expenditure for certain purchasing categories relating to bids in Annex IV.
In 1999, the Borrower decided to request a cancellation of part of the Loan based on the following
considerations: (i) the start of an economic recession causing the AG to identify possible savings; (ii)
unforeseen economies of scale achieved in the infrastructure component as compared to the unit costs
estimated at appraisal; and (iii) availability of other sources of funding, especially the Plan Social financed
by the AG, to finance textbooks and learning materials. Consequently, a third amendment to the Loan
Agreement took place on April 12, 1999 (countersigned on August 6, 1999 by the National Minister of
Economy) which included: (a) the reduction of US$20 million of the loan principal and the redistribution
of expenditure categories in Annex I; (b) the change in some pari-passus in Annex 1; and (c) the increase of
the special account to US$15 million in Annex V.
- 4 -



The severity of the financial crisis made the Borrower request a fourth amendment, communicated to the
Argentine Government (AG) by telex on August 10, 1999. This amendment extended the closing date from
June 30, 2000 to June 30, 2001, to allow more time to complete project activities.
Finally, the Bank authorized on April 16, 2001, an extension to October 31, 2001 of expenditures required
to complete 59 works in progress, maintaining the revised closure date of the remaining expenditure
categories to June 30, 2001 (the list of the 59 construction sites is attached to the Bank's amendment letter
and has been electronically filed).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Even though no formal Quality at Entry Criteria was available at the time this project was prepared and
appraised in the period 1992-1994, this report follows Bank Quality Assurance Group standards. Firstly,
the project was consistent with the Argentina's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) available at that time
(Report No. 14278-AR of April 10, 1995). Secondly, the preparation process had the political support of
the AG and was prepared by technical teams of the NMCE and the participating provinces, thus ensuring
design appropriation by the Borrower. Thirdly, relevant lessons leamed from the Bank's secondary
education experience in other countries at the time of project preparation were included in the project
design. Fourthly, although Bank lending preparation-appraisal guidelines in 1994 did not require the
inclusion of a formal economic analysis in the Staff Appraisal Report for education-type investments, an
economic analysis of the benefits arising from the project was nevertheless carried out. This economic
analysis based the project benefits on a comparison between the investment and incremental operational
costs against the potential saving resulting from it, such as: (i) reduced repetition; (ii) incremental
completion of the secondary cycle; (iii) improved students/teachers ratios; and (iv) improved efficiency of
administrative operations. The social and implementation capacity (at the national and provincial levels)
assessments made during preparation were not conducted with the same rigor and depth required currently
by the Bank in new education sector investments. No project implementation capacity at the national and
provincial levels in the context of the secondary education decentralization process taking place at the start
of the project was conducted. Finally, no baseline data of project performance indicators were available at
the start of project implementation (they were only made available after the first amendment to the Loan
Agreement, and only for some provinces).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
General assessment by the ICR mission. Based on documentation review, field visits to secondary
schools in the project provinces of Buenos Aires, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro and Santa Fe,
discussions held with the national and provincial educational authorities, the beneficiary survey carried out
by an independent and qualified NGO (see Annex 8) and the stakeholders workshop (see Annex 9), the ICR
mission concluded that the overall implementation of this project was satisfactory.
The ICR notes that PRODYMES I provided fertile grounds to experiment with diverse interventions to
effectively address similar institutional strengthening and school infrastructure issues in the distinct project
provinces. PRODYMES I, as a first Bank-financed investment in education in Argentina, also served as an
important laboratory for both the Borrower and the Bank to change the orientation of subsequent
Bank-financed education sector projects in Argentina (PRODYMES II, III and HI-A). In effect, once the
Federal Education Law was sufficiently internalized by almost all the provinces in the country, these
subsequent investments placed particular importance on improving the quality of education. PRODYMES
- 5-



II financed quality improvement interventions in the classrooms of 630 targeted (high-risk) EGB3 schools
throughout the entire country; PRODYMES III concentrated on the EGB3 and polimodal schools of the
Province of Buenos Aires (PBA); and PRODYMES III-A worked in about 200 EGB3 full-time schools in
PBA.
Although the original overall objective of the project was to increase student learning in the participating
provinces, specifically through the quality improvement component, the Borrower did not invest sufficiently
in either the design nor the implementation of the project to clearly achieve this objective. Instead, the real
project thrust was focused from the very beginning of project implementation on institutional strengthening
and infrastructure. It became obvious to NMCE at the early stages of project implementation that before
addressing the secondary education quality improvement issues it was important to first address: (a) the
limited administrative, financial, planning, and management capacity at both the national and provincial
levels; and (b) the inadequate infrastructure. In addition, at the time the Loan became effective in January
1995, the NMCE considered that the Federal Education Law approved in 1993 needed additional time to be
internalized by each province to adequately conduct their secondary education curricular transformation,
and thus, the design and implementation of appropriate quality improvement interventions under this
project (which were carried out at the latter stages of project implementation in a limited fashion).
Accordingly, it is not surprising to find (as attested in the first table of Annex 2) that, compared to the
project cost estimates at appraisal (without price and physical contingencies), the actual expenditure shows
overspending of almost 130%  in the institutional strengthening component and of 154%  in the
infrastructure component and an underspending of about 61.5% in the quality improvement component.
Furthermore, almost the total amount allocated to physical and price contingencies (US$45.37 million) was
reallocated to the infrastructure component during the implementation cycle.
In what follows, ratings are provided to the achievements of each one of the original project objectives.
Strengthening the institutional capacity in the secondary education sectors of NMCE and PMEs.
Overall, this project outcome was rated satisfactory, with some mixed outcomes.  Two project
sub-components produced highly satisfactory results: the establishment of a national statistical information
system and a student learning assessment system (REDFIED and SINEC respectively). In other
sub-components, such as the SAF and ECSE, the ICR mission did not find evidence of sufficient
significant contribution and/or impact in terms of their originally stated objectives compared with their
significant implementation costs. Nor did the ICR mission encounter a firm guarantee on the part of the
current National Ministry of Education (NME), formerly the NMCE, and/or the PMEs, concerning their
sustainability. For these reasons, the ICR mission rated these two sub-components as unsatisfactory.
Other sub-components related to this project objective, such as the strengthening of institutional
management (subsequently reconverted and enhanced in PREGASE) and PROFOR, were implemented
satisfactorily with varying degrees of progress in the different provinces (explained below in Section 4.2
Component 2).
Improve secondary education efficiency. Based on available information comparing baseline data on
indicators from 1994 for the EGB3 and polimodal levels with 2000 data and averaged for the six provinces
(table 4.1), the ICR mission rated the improvement of secondary education efficiency as satisfactory.
- 6 -



TABLE 4.1 PROVINCIAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Buenos Aires     Mendoza        Misiones       Neuquen        Rio Negro       Santa Fe       Average
(simple)
94      00     94      00     94      00     94      00      94     00      94     00      94      00
INTERNAL EFFICIENCY
1. Secondary education net
enrollment rates (%)          61.6   74.4    NA      71.3   NA      49.8   70.9    74.5   57.8    63.2    50.1   51.3    60.1   64.1
2. Gross transition rate from
7th to 8th grade (%)          91.7   95.0    90.6    98.9   86.1    97.0   89.3    100    91.5    96.0    90.8   107     90.8   98.9
3. Repetition rates (%)      I___I_
First grade (8th)             11.8    5.0    16.4    13.7   11.4    9.0    19.0    21.2   24.7    22.4    10.2   12.8    15.6   14.0
Second grade (9th)            14.8    7.5    19.4    15.5   16.7    10.6   20.7    22.3   23.0    18.6    12.3   13.4    17.8   14.7
Third grade (lOth)            11.0    5.0    13.3    11.1   12.3    10.5   16.9    18.0    15.0   10.5    9.3     9.2    13.0    10.7
Fourth grade (I Ith)          6.2     5.0     8.4    5.3     6.8    5.1    10.9    10.8   11.2    8.1     5.0     4.6    8.1     6.5
Fifih grade (12th)            2.1     4.0    2.2     1.3     1.7    1.1     2.4    1.8     1.6    0.5     0.9     0.8    1.8     1.6
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
INDICATORS
4. Number of student places
per school shift in
PRODYMES I secondary
schools (thousands)           15.9    17.4   8.1     10.9   11.4    13.4   24.5    28.7    6.2    10.1    108.    111    174     191
FINANCIAL INDICATORS               _          __._
5. Expenditure ratio of
substitute teachers as
percentage oftotal expenditure  10.2  6.7    30.0    31.2   17.8    13.8   16.8    15.1   23.4    25.7    15.0   11.4    18.9    17.4
on teaching staff in EGB3 and
polimodal cycle (%/o)
6. Expenditure ratio of
teaching and non-teaching
personnel out of total        90.1   92.2    96.8   93.4    92.1    90.3   86.9    91.2   98.2    81.0    97.3   96.9    93.6   90.8
provincial education budget
(%)
7. Expenditure ratio of
teaching and non-teaching
personnel out of total        98.3   87.9    97.8    89.5   99.9    94.6   89.7    93.2   98.2    79.8    98.5   97.2    97.1    90.3
provincial education budget in
EGB3 and polimodal (%/o)                                   _
8. Ratio of non-personnel
expenditure out oftotal       9.9     7.8     3.2    6.6     7.9    9.7    13.1    8.8     12.2   12.4    2.7     3.1     6.4    8.1
provincial education budget
(%)                                                       _
9. Ratio of administrative and
technical personnel
expenditure out of total      16.1    12.4   9.0     8.4     9.1    9.6     3.7    4.6    16.1     8.2    1.7     2.0     9.3    7.5
provincial personnel
expenditure in the education
sector (%/6)
Source: IDECE, 2001
ECSE. Costs studies based on provincial executed budgets for 1994 and 2000.
In effect, the impact performance indicators show that: (i) the net enrollment rate of the relevant age
population increased from 60.1 to almost 64.1% (the Province of Buenos Aires shows a strong
performance with an increase of 20.8%); (ii) the gross transition rate from seventh grade (last year of
primary education) to eight grade (first year of secondary education) increased from 90.8 to 98.9%; (iii) the
repetition rate declined for each grade; (iv) the installed capacity in terms of number of student places per
shift in PRODYMES I secondary schools increased from 174,100 to 191,500 (strong performances are
shown in Rio Negro with an increase of 62.9% and Mendoza with 34.6%); (v) the expenditure ratio of
substitute teachers as a percentage of total expenditure on teaching staff declined from 18.9 to 17.4%
(strong performances are shown in the Province of Buenos Aires with a decline of 34.3%, Santa Fe with
24%   and Misiones with 22.5%); (vi) the expenditure ratio on teaching and non-teaching personnel as a
- 7 -



percentage of the total expenditure on education declined from 93.6 to 90.8%; (vii) the expenditure ratio on
teaching and non-teaching personnel as a percentage of the total expenditure on education in EGB3 and
polimodal declined from 97.1 to 90.3%; (viii) the expenditure ratio of goods, services and capital
investments in relation to the expenditure on education increased from 6.4 to 8.1% (Mendoza shows a
strong performance with an increase of 106.2%); and (ix) the expenditure ratio of administrative and
technical staff as a percentage of the expenditure on personnel in the education sector declined from 9.3 to
7.5% (Rio Negro displays a strong performance with a decrease of 49%).
In addition, table 4.2 indicates the following project performance indicators averaged for the six project
provinces: (a) the inter-grade promotion rate increased, except for the last (5th) polimodal grade; (b) the
dropout rates during the school year declined in EGB3 but increased in the polimodal cycle; and (c) the
students per section increased except in the last two polimodal grades. Given the overall results in the
comparison of the performance indicators despite some mixed outcomes (as shown in tables 4.1 and 4.2).
TABLE 4.2 ADDITIONAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(Average in the project provinces)
INTERNAL EFFICIENCY                           1994                2000
1. Inter.-grade promotion rates in secondary education (%)
First grade (8th)                                          65.0                 69.4
Second grade (9th)                                         62.9                 66.5
Third grade (1Oth)                                         73.8                 77.8
Fourth grade (1 Ith)                                       85.0                 85.7
Fifth grade (12th)                                         87.2                 73.3
2. Dropout rates during the school year (%)
First grade (8th)                                          18.0                 15.5
Second grade (9th)                                         15.6                 15.5
Third grade (10th)                                          6.8                 10.4
Fourth grade (I Ith)                                        7.9                 6.9
Fifth grade (12th)                                         23.4                 24.5
3. Students per section in each grade of the EGB3 and
polimodal cycles
First grade (8th)                                          25.6                 26.9
Second grade (9th)                                         23.4                 25.7
Third grade (10th)                                         21.9                 23.9
Fourth grade (I 1th)                                       24.9                 21.4
Fifth grade (12th)                                         22.8                 19.2
Increase secondary education student learning in the participating provinces. According to information
made available by the Instituto de Evaluaci6n de la Calidad Educativa (IDECE) at the time of the ICR
mission, achievement in language declined in the 1995-2000 period in every PRODYMES I province, while
achievement in math improved in every province except the Province of Buenos Aires (table 4.3). It is
difficult to assess the degree to which the project contributed to these failures and accomplishments, and/or
explain the relevant reasons for these changes, as no experimental design, including a control group, was set
at the outset of project implementation (PRODYMES III-A, for example, includes an experimental design to
measure changes in project and non-project schools of similar socio-economic conditions). In addition, and
as mentioned before, notwithstanding that one of the formal PRODYMES I objectives was to improve
learning outcomes, increased access and institutional strengthening at the provincial and national levels
became in practice the essence of the project's design and implementation.
-8 -



TABLE 4.3 PROVINCIAL LEARNING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Buenos     Mendoza     Misiones   Neuquen     Rio Negro   Santa Fe    Average
PROVINCE            Aires                                                                (simple)
YEARS           95    00    95    00    95    00   95    00    95    00    95   00    95    00
SPANISH IN 91h GRADE
(2"'d of EGB3)        60.7  50.4  58.7  53.1  45.3  43.5  56.9  56.6  57.0  54.8  54.7  55.6  55.5  52.3
MATH IN 9"' GRADE (2n
of EGB3)              56.0  52.7  52.1  57.7  32.6  44.1  51.7  59.8  49.4  59.6  49.2  62.2  48.5  56.0
* The latest data for Neuqu6n is for the year 1999.
Source: IDECE, Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Naci6n, 2001.
IDECE integrated in 2001 in one parastate institution the former SINEC and REDFIED in the post-project period.
On the qualitative dimension, the application of the new EGB3 and polimodal curricular frameworks were
implemented satisfactorily with different degrees of progress in the provinces. All the project provinces,
except Neuquen, completed the curricular transformation of EGB3. Mendoza, Misiones and Santa Fe were
applying the new curricular framework in the first polimodal grade, and the province of Buenos Aires had
completed the design of the new curricular framework in all the grades of the polimodal education at the
time of the ICR mission. The project also supported, in a very limited and non-systemic fashion, the design
and start-up in some provinces with training programs for management, supervisory and teaching staff in
institutional and curricular management techniques under the new curricular framework. In addition, some
provinces like Mendoza, Misiones and Neuquen, carried out limited purchases of textbooks under the
project, and others like Mendoza, Misiones and Santa Fe, supported the preparation and dissemination of
teachers' workbooks consistent with the new curricular designs. As mentioned before, the relevant
contribution of PRODYMES I in the quality improvement dimension is that it served as laboratory for the
design and implementation of more focused and holistic quality improvement programs in subsequent
Bank-financed interventions (PRODYMES II, III and III-A).
Infrastructure (construction, expansion and rehabilitation). Based on available information (detailed in
Section 4.2), the implementation of the infrastructure sub-component including the provision of school
furniture was rated as highly successful. This rating is based on the fact that: (i) original construction
targets at the time of appraisal were exceeded; (ii) the construction unit costs estimated at appraisal
decreased during the implementation; (iii) access to EGB3 and the polimodal cycle was increased, (iv)
innovative construction designs attuned to the provinces' climate conditions were implemented; and (v)
rental costs of school facilities decreased.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Institutional strengthening.
(a) REDFIED.       This sub-component aimed at strengthening the statistical information-gathering
mechanisms, including: (i) developing a means of linking all the uncoupled provincial educational
information systems with the REDFIED that existed up to the mid-nineties; (ii) increasing the relevancy,
opportunity and reliability of the education statistical information; and (iii) improving the diagnostic
capacity of the education sector at the school, provincial and national levels. To carry out these objectives,
REDFIED: (a) conducted annual surveys as of 1996 and systematized the information; (b) included
provincial socio-educational information in the system; (c) conducted a National Census of School
Infrastructure in 1998; (c) provided training; (d) acquired computer equipment and appropriate software
for the national and provincial teams; (e) established procedures and instruments to gather, process and
-9-



analyze information; (f) standardized information at the national level; (g) conducted periodically
quality-control supervisions; (h) disseminated results (44 documents were published); (i) provided technical
assistance in information technology to all provinces; and (j) conducted relevant research.
The ICR mission noted that notwithstanding the above-mentioned achievements, there are still issues
pending that need to be further addressed, such as: (i) the provincial statistical units are still weak and
dependent on the national level; (ii) it is necessary to continue strengthening the provinces' commitment to
ensure timely, reliable and valid information; (iii) the information-gathering processes at the school level
are neither fully computerized nor updated in real time; (iv) the dissemination mechanisms do not cover the
universe of users that require the information to make decisions on education; and (v) REDFIED activities
are not appropriately linked with those of SINEC. In addition, the ICR mission observed that: (a) the links
of REDF1ED with the budget planning and programming activities of NME and the PMEs as well as with
other national and international information networks are insufficient; (b) the Teacher Census that was
scheduled for 1998 was never carried out; and (c) the School Census of 2001 was not carried out due to
lack of budget.
In 2000, the NMCE decided to integrate SINEC and REDFIED in one institution: Instituto para el
Desarrollo de la Calidad Educativa (IDECE - Institute for the Development of Education Quality). At
the time of the ICR mission, IDECE was just beginning to try to integrate these two information systems.
(b) SINEC. This sub-component aimed at improving the still incipient learning assessment system, which
was established in 1993 in order to: (i) provide timely information on student learning outcomes throughout
the country; and (ii) assist in the definition of policies and strategies to improve the quality of education.
The learning assessment system started receiving financial support from PRODYMES I in 1995. To
achieve its project objectives, SINEC: (a) provided training to national and provincial technical teams
including the development of relevant training materials; (b) prepared a bank of learning-measurement
items for different curricular disciplines and grades, and validated the prototype instruments on a sample of
37,500 students; (c) applied annual sampling operations in several grades (3rd, 6th, 7th and 9th) as of 1993
and census-based interventions in others (6th and 12th) since 1997; (d) acquired computer equipment,
software, optical readers and printers; (e) conducted related education research; (f) prepared 125 learning
performance reports; (g) provided teaching instruments to all schools (Recomendaciones Metodologicas
para el Aprendizaje) in 1997 and 1998; and (h) implemented a performance feedback program in 6,300
secondary schools that had been evaluated, including follow-up manuals for school directors and
supervisors of the PRODYMES II schools.
The ICR mission concluded that PRODYMES I contributed to: (i) the establishment of a reliable, relevant
and timely student learning assessment scheme; (ii) the build up of institutional capacity with respect to
qualified technical teams at the national and provincial levels to prepare and implement census-based and
sampling-based learning assessment measurement operations; (iii) the establishment of the capacity for
analyzing and synthesizing information; (iv) providing learning assessment feedback of the results to
teachers, school principals, supervisors and authorities; (v) developing a pedagogic interpretation (or
diagnosis) of the students' main learning deficiencies in the context of the new curricular framework for
corrective and preventive purposes; and (vi) instituting a culture of evaluating the quality of education.
Several provinces, such as Buenos Aires and Mendoza, have strengthened and expanded their own
Provincial Quality Evaluation Systems and subsequently complemented their measuring efforts with
SINEC. Based on the above-mentioned achievements and experience gained, there is a need for further
development to continue improving the degree to which the feedback of learning assessment findings are
being internalized by the school actors and translated into better pedagogical practices. Finally, the ICR
mission noted with concern the lack of appropriate financial resources in CYOI and CY02 to allow SINEC
- 10-



to fully carry out its envisaged learning assessment measuring activities (as further explained in Annex 3).
(c) SAF. The NMCE's Administration Undersecretariat implemented this sub-component in order to
improve the Ministry's institutional efficiency and quality of administrative services, as well as to build
capacity in planning, programming, implementing and monitoring resources with a view to streamline the
Ministry. Except for one concrete application of a management system to expedite transactions and
procedures (Tramix) still in operation in NME, the remaining resources of this sub-component financed
under PRODYMES I were used to contract management studies that failed to materialize into substantive
actions to make the Ministry more efficient and effective. The ICR mission confirmed that the original,
non-accomplished, objectives sought by SAF in the mid-nineties are currently on the agenda set by the
State Modernization Project headed by the Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros (Office of the Chief of
Cabinet) for the modernization of NME.
(d) ECSE. This sub-component aimed at establishing a cost-model per school as a tool to estimate the
costs of the education reform. A total of 29 cost studies were conducted over the life of the project. These
studies generated valuable information, some of which was discussed in the Council of Provincial
Education Ministries (Consejo Federal de Educaci6n). The information produced by these studies included:
(i) teachers' salaries; (ii) cost of the Teaching Statute; (iii) national and provincial education budgets and
expenditures; (iv) schools' current and operational costs; (v) the cost of applying the Reform prescribed by
the Federal Education Law; (vi) the cost of the National Teacher Incentive Fund; and (vii) simulation
models of education expenditure. Notwithstanding the fact that the results of these studies increased
awareness among the national, and to certain extent, provincial, authorities as to the benefits in designing
more pertinent education policies (like, for example, in the case of the teachers' incentive), the ICR mission
found limited evidence of the incorporation of this valuable infornation into policy decision-making aimed
at improving and rationalizing the cost of the education systems at a national and provincial level. The
ICR mission also found a lack of: (viii) a strategy to disseminate more effectively the results, especially in
the larger provinces, to ensure their impact in significantly larger portions of the education system; and (ix)
a lack of systematization of the cost base data.
(e) PROFOR. This sub-component sought to promote and develop the training of national and provincial
officials to improve the quality and effectiveness of the organization, implementation and evaluation of
education management, programs and projects.  Its strategy included training (short courses and
workshops, both in the country and abroad), additional education (one- and two-year graduate scholarships
at national and foreign universities) and action-training (workshops reinforced with internships and work
visits). During the life of the project, around 1,265 technicians and officials from each of the participating
provinces and the NMCE, attended 62 local courses, and another 410 persons went to 95 international
courses. Approximately 25 professionals obtained scholarships to local universities and 126 went to
universities abroad. In addition, 196 officials participated in 10 action-training activities. The total cost of
this sub-component was approximately US$8.6 million, representing a unit cost of US$2,800 for local
courses, US$3,400 for short courses abroad, US$30,000 for graduate scholarships abroad and US$16,700
for local graduate scholarships lasting one to two years.
A PROFOR evaluation conducted by a qualified independent consultant prior to the ICR mission concluded
that this sub-component: (i) was cost-effective; (ii) had foreseeable impact on education management; (iii)
benefited the beneficiaries' professional development; (iv) contributed to a better implementation of projects
and programs in the education sector through the application of simple management instruments; (v)
improved communications between national and provincial education authorities; (vi) managed to have
about 70% of the foreign scholarship holders return to their work in the education sector and none abandon
their study programs; and (vii) awarded scholarships through transparent and competitive evaluation and
- 1 1 -



selection mechanisms. The study also indicated that from the totality of scholarship holders, 23% remained
abroad while completing professional internships, 50% returned to their same activity receiving the same
salary as they did prior to the scholarship, 20% ended up working at a higher level of responsibility and
remuneration, and the remaining 7% finished by working part-time in the system. The methodology and
procedures developed by PROFOR have served as a basis to institutionalize the further training and
updating of professionals within the NME's National Scholarship Program, as well as to implement
innovative skills improvement schemes in administration and school management, such as the Programa de
Intercambio y Pasantias de Directores de Escuela (School Directors' Exchange and Internship Program).
At the time of the ICR mission, and as a consequence of the financial crisis affecting the country, the
scholarships abroad and the action-training modules were discontinued by NME. The ICR mission
concluded that it would be useful and desirable to compare the options used by PROFOR with others, such
as sub-contracted capability-building alternatives offered by a local university and/or the Buenos Aires
branch of UNESCO's International Institute of Educational Planning (IEP) to analyze the costs and
benefits of each. The ICR mission also noted that the success of interventions like PROFOR are highly
dependent on the political support of the national and provincial authorities.
(f) PREGASE. This sub-component had a very slow start during the first two years of the implementation
cycle. Most of the studies contracted during these two first years were mainly aimed to support the
incorporation of additional provinces in PRODYMES II (originally designed as an extension of
PRODYMES I to incorporate additional provinces). The findings of these studies were considered, by and
large, not applicable when PRODYMES II was restructured (before its implementation) to focus more in
addressing quality improvements in 630 high-risk secondary schools in the country. As a result of these
failed initiatives, the NMCE, in agreement with the Bank, decided at the end of 1996 to: (i) discontinue
these studies; (ii) establish the PREGASE, as a NMCE-sponsored program with resources from the loan
and the national budget; and (iii) provide technical support in a more systematic way, to all the provinces in
the area of educational management.
PREGASE was initially conceived as a supply-driven intervention targeted to the provinces. Many
provinces did not embrace this centrally-driven top-down approach, thus limiting PREGASE's impact
during the 1997-1999 period. In 2000, PREGASE's strategy underwent a drastic change from being
supply- to demand-driven. This change was immediately rewarded by increased provincial demand to
strengthen their educational institutional arrangements and activities. Under this demand-driven approach,
PREGASE aimed its efforts on: (i) reengineering processes and creating regulations to improve the
organizational structure and administrative activities in the areas of financial, human and physical
resources, budget preparation and monitoring, and students statistics. For these purposes, PREGASE, with
the financial support of PRODYMES I, supplied computer equipment to 16 provinces, and provided
training to about 10,000 provincial staff involved in the management of their educational system. At the
time of the ICR mission, PREGASE had been extended to 23 (of the 24) provinces in the country.
As a result of these efforts, management modules have been designed and are being implemented in several
project and non-project provinces to different extents, as follows: (i) processing of documents; (ii)
functional organizational units; (iii) single personnel roster; (iv) medical leave authorization, payroll and
compensation; (v) inventory and administration of buildings and premises under the jurisdiction of the
provincial education authorities; (vi) school mapping; and (vii) legal digests. The single personnel roster
has been concluded in Catamarca, Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, San Luis and Tucuman. Currently, the
payroll and personnel compensation is based on the single roster in Rio Negro and Salta, and soon to be
implemented in Catamarca, La Pampa, San Luis and Tucuman. Making information compatible in the
provinces has already generated savings of about 6% of the monthly payroll in the province of Salta. At
- 12 -



the time of the ICR mission, the jurisdictions of the City of Buenos Aires, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones,
Neuquen, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego were initiating the implementation of this effort.
Despite the significant achievements mentioned above and the efforts to make information compatible, the
ICR mission perceived that, with very few exceptions, the resource administration modules had not yet
been fully integrated into the following systems: (i) the provincial financial and accounting management;
(ii) the budget management; and (iii) the school infrastructure information system. Also, a significant
number of schools still lack the necessary computer equipment and connectivity with the internet to
implement an on-line real time system for updating school information. Moreover, changes to existing
regulations of the legal digest, and the incorporation of new ones, is required in order to make the
decentralization of school education a reality.
The ICR mission noted that PREGASE financed by the project has had more impact in non-project
provinces than in project provinces. One explanation is that the Bank-financed Provincial Sector Loans
(structural adjustment loans) that have taken place in several non-project provinces, like Catamarca, Rio
Negro, Salta and Tucuman, serve as a leverage to improve the effectiveness of PREGASE by improving
the provincial financial enabling conditions for reducing provincial deficit.
Component 2. Quality improvement.
(a) Curriculum development. Except for the province of Neuqu6n, where there was significant political
resistance to reformulating the curriculum of the EGB3 and the polimodal cycles, the other project
provinces made significant, albeit uneven, progress in this area. All the project provinces (except Neuquen)
completed the curricular transformation of EGB3. At the time of the ICR mission, Mendoza, Misiones and
Santa Fe were applying the new curricular framework in the first polimodal grade, while the province of
Buenos Aires had completed the design and application of the new structure in the entire polimodal cycle
including the professional segments and modules based on competences. The province of Buenos Aires
provides a good example at the polimodal level of alignment between curriculum and other learning inputs,
in terms of: (i) pedagogic viability; (ii) development of training modules for supervisors; (iii) the adoption
of new forms of teaching practices; (iv) pedagogical links between the EGB3 and polimodal levels; and (v)
development of teaching approaches for socially disadvantaged young people.
The curricular transformation required the preparation of: (i) Institutional Education Projects; (ii)
Institutional Curricular Projects; (iii) Supervisory Projects; (iv) Provincial Education Projects; and (v)
Innovative Projects. All these projects sought to translate and adjust the national curricular frameworks
prepared by NMCE to the provincial educational context and then, adjust the provincial new curriculum to
the requirements of the EGB3 and polimodal schools. Teacher networks were also stablished during this
process, stimulating innovation through an exchange of ideas within and among participating schools.
Some provinces, such as Mendoza, managed to establish through the curricular transformation process
compensatory programs, such as the Programa Compensatorio de Educaci6n Media de Adultos for adult
education, and the Programa de Mejoramiento del Rendimiento en la Educaci6n Media for improving
secondary education performance, aimed especially at those in urban areas with unsatisfied basic needs and
in rural zones with difficult access. These compensatory provincial initiatives provided appropriate
pedagogical assistance to students at risk.
The combined efforts of the curricular transformation, the provision of pedagogic support and inputs, and
the infrastructure works backed by PRODYMES I as well as other programs, like the Inter-American
Development Bank-financed PRISE, managed to extend de facto compulsory education in the country to
ten years (one preschool level plus the nine comprising the EGB1, EGB2 and EGB3 cycles). As a result,
- 13 -



the transition rates from 7th. to 8th. grade, the successful completion of EGB3 and the transition rates from
9th. grade to the 1st. polimodal grade (10th. grade) significantly increased nationwide (as shown in table
4.1 above).
The ICR mission noted that in addition to continuing to support the improvement of the quality of
education in the EGB3 and polimodal levels, another pending issue on the agenda of curricular
transformation and secondary education quality enhancement is work with supervisors. It is necessary to
continue simplifying the supervisor's administrative load through the PREGASE efforts, modifying
management processes, and simultaneously, strengthening the supervisor's pedagogical role and ensuring
their presence in the classroom more frequently.
(b) Teacher training. As mentioned before in this report, except for curriculum development in EGB3 and
polimodal, PRODYMES I financed a limited number of quality improvement interventions, such as teacher
training and provision of textbooks and learning materials and equipment. These interventions were carried
out in few project provinces and their implementation was highly unholistic, when compared with the
subsequent quality improvement interventions financed by PRODYMES II, III and III-A. Among some of
these limited interventions, PRODYMES I supported the design and start-up in some provinces of training
programs for management, supervisory and teaching staff in institutional and curricular management
techniques. Although this effort was limited and has not been formally evaluated with respect to the
pedagogical transactions occurring in the classroom, greater motivation and commitment to the
transformation of education has been observed among the beneficiaries. The positive training experiences
funded by PRODYMES I were subsequently absorbed by the NMCE's Federal Network for Continuing
Teacher Training.
(c) Supply of textbooks, teaching materials and equipment. This sub-component was not universally
applied in all provinces. Some provinces, like Mendoza, Misiones and Neuquen, purchased, by their own
initiative, a limited amount of textbooks under PRODYMES I. In other cases, like in Mendoza, Misiones
and Santa Fe, PRODYMES I funded substantial distribution of didactic materials. In the latter, teachers
received: (i) workbooks consistent with the curricular designs per area and grade; (ii) teacher orientation
manuals; and (iii) other support documents, including materials on evaluation, cross-disciplinary content
(environmental health, first aid, traffic and safety education, consumer information and violence
prevention); and (iv) pedagogical links between the different levels. In addition, at a number of EGB3
schools in certain provinces, the project provided (in limited quantities as compared with the subsequent
Bank-financed sector investment of PRODYMES II) laboratories, teaching materials, multimedia centers
and basic computer equipment. Given that these teaching inputs were acquired during the last stages of
PRODYMES I, no impact evaluation studies were carried out. Thus, there is now a need to evaluate their
use in the classrooms and their relevance in supporting teaching activities under the new curricular
framework. These evaluation studies are being now required under PRODYMES II.
Finally, the ICR noted that the development of school-based grant programs included in the definition of the
quality improvement component under PRODYMES I was never carried out. The Borrower informed the
ICR mission that the complexity involved in implementing PRODYMES I recommended deferring the
implementation of this component to PRODYMES II in 630 high-risk EGB3 and polimodal schools in the
entire country.
Component 3. Infrastructure
(a) Infrastructure in the provinces. PRODYMES I financed the construction and furnishing of 196
works, of which 191 were completed at the time of the ICR mission and the remaining 5 showed significant
- 14 -



progress. This sub-component contributed effectively to providing greater access to the EGB3 and
polimodal levels, thus increasing the net rates of enrollment of the relevant population cohort. This
component also helped to reduce expenditures on rental of school and administration buildings. Of the
finished works, 31 are new schools, 152 are reconditioned schools, 5 are reconditioned administrative
offices and 3 are new administrative offices for education management. Of the 5 works in progress at the
time of the ICR mission (all completed by October 31, 2001), one was a new school in Santa Fe, one was
the reconditioning of a regional office in Santa Fe, and three were new administrative offices (one of them,
currently housing the Provincial Board of Education of Neuquen and the other two are in Santa Fe).
The ICR mission observed that: (i) the physical layout of the construction projects emphasized the spatial
distribution with the aim of promoting a greater degree of openness with the community, basically in terms
of multimedia resource centers, multi-use rooms and patios; (ii) the architectural designs fit the basic
standards for school architecture (Normativa bdsica de arquitectura escolar), maintaining the
recommended relationship between areas and buildings, and general occupancy ratios by area and building;
and (iii) there was design diversity among provinces with respect to their respective climates, environmental
conditions (cold in Neuquen, tropical in Misiones and desert in Mendoza) and building materials and
techniques (traditional masonry, open brick, light roofing, etc.). The ICR mission also noted that in terms
of average costs per square meter, except for the building of the Provincial Board of Education of Neuquen
(which cost around US$1,200 per square meter), the differences ranged from US$500 per square meter in
Mendoza, Misiones and Santa Fe to US$800 in Neuquen and Rio Negro. This range is quite reasonable
considering that, on average, the market cost for standard schools is about US$600 per square meter.
(b) Infrastructure at a national level. PRODYMES I financed the following three construction works on
NMCE property which were satisfactorily completed: (i) remodeling of the National Teachers' Library; (ii)
renovation of the "Anexo Paraguay" building (housing REDFIED and SINEC, currently merged in
IDECE); and (iii) renovation of the "Galp6n de la Reforma" (an education-related public meeting place).
The first two works were considered in the original design, whereas the third was included as an agreement
reached during the June 1997 supervision mission. Although these works do not have a direct effect on the
objectives of increasing coverage and improving the quality and relevance of the EGB3, they were
significantly important to strengthen the image and effectiveness of the NMCE as the governing body of the
Argentine education system. Finally, the carrying out of an inventory of NME's facilities was done as part
of the diagnosis requested by the Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros for the State Modernization Project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The ICR mission noted three significant, long-term, institutional development impacts from PRODYMES
I: (i) the curriculum reform in EGB3 and polimodal cycles; (ii) the learning assessment and the education
statistical information systems; and (iii) PREGASE.
Curriculum  reform.  The new   EGB3 and polimodal curricular frameworks were implemented
satisfactorily during the life of the project to different extents in the provinces. Except for Neuquen, all of
them completed the curricular transformation of EGB3. Mendoza, Misiones and Santa Fe applied the new
- 15 -



curricular framework in the first polimodal grade, and the province of Buenos Aires had completed the
design in all the grades of polimodal education at the time of the ICR mission. National and provincial
education authorities continue to address curricular reform in order to consolidate the complex
transformation process.
Learning assessment and statistical information systems.  Recognizing that at the outset of
PRODYMES I, the AG did not have a reliable, timely and relevant management information system with
respect to education statistics and learning assessment outcomes, the successful implementation of
REDFIED and SINEC, their institutionalization in IDECE, and the initial, albeit yet modest, utilization of
IDECE's information in policy decision making, became important institutional development achievements
that the ICR mission highlights.
PREGASE. Through PREGASE, several provinces have made organizational and structural changes to
their Ministries of Education or equivalent institutions, and have prepared and put into operation more
simplified management procedures and corresponding staff training, including, as mentioned before: (i)
processing of documents; (ii) functional organizational units; (iii) single personnel roster (adjusting the
degrees of teaching personnel and the areas of their pedagogical competency to the school needs created by
the new curricular framework); (iv) medical leave authorization; (v) payroll and compensation; (vi)
buildings and premises administration; (vii) school mapping; and (viii) condensing all existing legal
regulations in digitalized form (legal digest) to expedite their subsequent distribution and use through the
web pages of the respective PMEs. In those provinces like Salta (non-project province) and Rio Negro
(project province) where the single personnel roster has been articulated with the monthly payroll system:
(a) the timing involved in the hiring, appointment, leave, dismissal and payroll of the teaching staff has
decreased significantly; (b) inconsistencies in the school placement of teachers have been identified and
addressed; (c) the abuse of medical-related teaching absenteeism drastically reduced; and (d) improvements
have been made in achieving better expenditure control and a more realistic budget planning adjusted to the
real student enrollment. As a consequence of the above, administrative efficiency in these provinces has
improved, making it possible to generate a certain level of savings. For example, and as noted before,
during the first month of operation of the payroll system based on the single teacher roster in Salta,
inconsistencies in their education system adding up to 6% of savings in the monthly payroll were detected.
Rio Negro uses the information to rationalize the use and distribution of teachers to schools and
scholarships to students. As mentioned above, at the time of the ICR mission, PREGASE was operating in
23 provinces, of which 16 showed significant progress and the remaining seven had only recently been
included in this scheme.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The timely provision of counterpart funds at the national and provincial level was seriously affected by
delayed transferences from the Ministry of Economy due to frequent fiscal economic crisis, severe
budgetary restrictions, limited access of the AG to the international financial markets and national disasters
(winter flooding) in some project provinces.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
PRODYMES I implementation start-up experienced a significant delay of almost twelve months after
Board approval. Six months elapsed between loan approval by the Bank Board and signing of the Loan
Agreement on March 24, 1995 by the Argentine Minister of the Economy and Public Works and Services.
Another six months elapsed to loan effectiveness on August 18, 1995. Once PRODYMES I was declared
- 16 -



effective, and the first disbursement had been deposited in the Special Account, this project maintained
relatively low disbursement levels during 1996 and 1997 of about US$20 million in the aggregate (10.5%
of the originally contracted amount of US$190 million). The ICR mission noted four main reasons for this
delay. First, the Bank insisted on conducting management and efficiency studies of the provincial
education structures as a condition of disbursement for civil works. The provinces failed to meet the
Bank's requirement, because, among other reasons, they lacked the capacity to carry out the studies. The
Bank subsequently withdrew the initial disbursement condition, and replaced it with action-plans and
provision of institutional strengthening through technical assistance to the PMEs.  Second, it took
significant amount of time for NMCE and the PMEs to appropriately internalize the Bank's procurement
procedures, in spite of the procurement training provided by the Bank in 1995 (two more protcurement
training were provided by the Bank in 1997 and 2000). In addition, at the early stages of project
implementation, both national and mainly provincial control agencies (Tribunales de Cuentas and
Contralorias Provinciales), were unaware of the Bank procurement framework, resulting in significant
delays at the approval and signing stages of bid tenders and contracts. Third, the envisaged project
management and implementation roles of the NMCE and the PMEs in the context of the recently enacted
Federal Education Law and devolution of secondary schools to the provinces needed further clarification.
Finally, the change of elected national and provincial governments in December 1995, led to changes in the
implementation teams, instability of the senior management layers and finally, the need to rebuild project
implementation capacity all over again.
The ICR mission also noted that the following three additional government-controlled activities also slowed
down project implementation during the first couple of years: (i) the educational reform lacked clarity and
consensus between the national and provincial governments with respect to the new educational structure
and curricular content, specifically the focus of the EGB3 (alternating between primary and the secondary
education cycles); (ii) the school decentralization model was financed with 30% of locally-generated
resources and 70% of national transfers that were allocated to the provinces with no clear funding formula
causing tensions between these two levels of government; and (iii) investment plans lacked coordination
among the different national or international sources of funding, producing overlap, saturation and
confusion in the provinces.
Finally, the ICR mission noted other organizational, administrative and financial factors controlled by the
national and provincial governments adversely affected project implementation, such as a lack of
counterpart funds and action plans in provinces, and signing delays (see Section 3.4), that justified the first
Loan amendment of December 1995.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PRODYMES I was the first Bank-financed investment in the Education Sector in Argentina. The ICR
mission noted that, as a first experience, the Bank and the Borrower gave insufficient attention to the
following implementing agency-controlled factors during project preparation and the first year of project
implementation. They needed to ensure at the onset of project implementation: (i) the hiring of qualified
personnel familiarized with the Bank's administrative, financial and procurement procedures, both at the
national and provincial project implementation units; (ii) an appropriate project monitoring system; (iii)
further clarification with respect to the lines of responsibilities of national and provincial project
implementation teams and more effective coordination among these actors; and (iv) sufficient number of
timely visits by the national project implementation team to project provinces to provide assistance in
programming activities and fostering the start-up process. Additionally, the ICR mission observed that the
NMCE could have been more effective in terms of facilitating dissemination of good practices and
cross-fertilization among provinces. In this venue, NMCE could have: (a) systematically carried out an
- 17 -



inventory of useful innovations of the provinces in the areas of institutional strengthening, quality
improvements, education management and decentralization; and (b) disseminated them through training,
workshops, seminars, technical assistance, demonstration events and/or conventions.
The fact that the project's management design include one national and six project coordination units added
complexity to the execution of the project and slowed down the implementation pace. Significant turn-over
of qualified personnel at the different project coordination units during the life of the project, especially of
project coordinators, also delayed project execution. This lesson learned was incorporated in the design of
PRODYMES II which included only one project coordination unit.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Financial situation. The estimated total cost of PRODYMES I at appraisal was US$268.67 million, of
which US$190 million were to be provided by the loan (70.7% of the total) and US$78.67 million by
national and provincial counterpart funds (29.3% of the total). In 1999, the AG requested a cancellation of
US$20 million of the loan (10.5% of the total contracted) and the project underwent a financial
restructuring. This loan cancellation in turn resulted in a reduction of US$20.36 million in counterpart
funding, for a total project cost reduction of US$40.36 million. The total adjusted amount of the project
remained at US$228.31 million, of which US$170.00 million were Bank funded and US$58.31 million
were provided via national and provincial counterpart funding. In 2000, the Bank declared misprocurement
of a bid in Neuquen thus canceling an additional US$1.31 million of the loan. This new cancellation
resulted in turn a reduction of US$3.36 million of counterpart funding, for a total cost reduction of
US$4.67 million. At the time of the ICR mission, the total adjusted amount of the project was US$223.64
million, with US$168.69 million provided by the Bank and US$54.95 million by counterpart funds.
PRODYMES I progressed satisfactorily in financial terms with respect to the last restructuring of the
project total cost (US$223.64 million). At the time of the ICR mission, the total disbursements amounted
to US$213.23 million (95.3% of the project estimated total cost after the second cancellation), of which
US$161.32 million were provided by the loan (94.8% of the amount contracted after the second
cancellation) and US$51.91 million from local funds (94.5% of the restructured amount). On April 16,
2001 the Bank agreed to extend the reimbursement period for finishing the 59 civil works until October 31,
2001. As mentioned before, by the time of the ICR mission, five of these 59 civil works were still in
progress and the rest had been completed. The amount committed up to October 31, 2001 was US$3.89
million (US$3.30 million from the loan and US$0.59 million from local contribution) and was used to
complete the five works under construction including their supervision, and to pay the necessary salaries
and cover the operating expenditure associated with the skeleton staff at the national and provincial
implementation units required to close down PRODYMES I. The outstanding amount that was not
expended was estimated to be US$6.5 million, of which US$4 million were from the loan (2.4% of the total
restructured amount) and US$2.5 million from local contribution (4.5% of the total restructured
contribution). At the request of AG dated September 6, 2001, the Bank cancelled US$4 million of
undisbursed Loan proceeds effective September 28, 2001. The Special Account was closed on November
2, 2001.
- 18-



TABLE 5.1 COMPARED BY COMPONENT
BASED ON THE SECOND COST RESTRUCTURING
In million US dolars
Componente                Rescheduled               Actuals at 30/06/01
Componente_______  Total     Bank      Local    Total     Bank     Local
Institutional Strengthening  78.39  66.26    12.13     76.59    65.21     11.38
Quality improvement      29.01      24.37     4.64    27.29     23.02     4.26
Infrastructure           104.53     64.44    40.09    95.60     60.88     34.73
Implementation units      16.38     14.93     1.45     13.75    12.21      1.53
SUB-TOTAL                228.31    170.00    58.31    213.23   161.32     51.91
'Misprocurement           -4.67     -1.31    -3.36
|TOTAL                   223.64    168.69    54.95    213.23    161.32    51.91
In looking at actual expenditures with estimates of the total restructured amount of US$228.31 million
before the cancellation due to misprocurement, we note (see table 5.1 above) that: (i) total expenditure on
institutional strengthening was US$76.59 million compared to US$78.39 million restructured estimate
(97.7%); (ii) total expenditure on quality of education was US$27.29 million compared to US$29.01
million restructured estimate (94.1%); (iii) total expenditure on infrastructure was US$95.6 million
compared to US$104.53 million restructured estimate (91.5%); and (iv) total expenditure on the national
and provincial project implementation units was US$13.75 million compared to US$16.38 million
restructured estimate (83.9%).
TABLE5.2 COMPARED BY COST CATEGORY
BASED ON THE SECOND COST RESTRUCTURING
_____________________ _  In  million US dolars
Categoria               Rescheduled             Actuals at 30/06/01
Total    Bank     Local    Total    Bank     Local
Works                     97.22    58.45    38.77    91.70    57.43    34.26
Goods                     36.43    28.97    7.46     35.58    28.70    6.88
Services                  65.36    58.83    6.53     61.14    54.99    6.14
Scholarships              6.77     6.77     0.00     7.84     7.84     0.00
Implementation Units      7.22     7.22     0.00     4.86     4.70     0.15
Operation Costs           5.46     3.77      1.69    4.16     2.88     1.30
Other Imp,lementation Costs  9.64  5.78     3.86     7.95     4.78     3.17
Non assigned              0.21     0.21     0.00
SUB-TOTAL                228.31   170.00    58.31   213.23   161.32   51.91
,Misprocureent            -4.67    -1.31    -3.36
|TOTAL                   223.64   168.69    54.95    213.23   161.32   51.91
According to table 5.2 above, the actual cost by expenditure category with respect to the total restructured
amount of US$228.31 million before the cancellation due to misprocurement shows that: (i) total
expenditure on civil works was US$91.7 million compared to the US$97.22 million restructured estimate
(94.3%); (ii) total expenditure on goods was US$35.58 million compared to the US$36.43 million
restructured estimate (97.7%); (iii) total expenditure on consulting work was US$61.14 million compared
to the US$65.36 million restructured estimate (93.5%); and (iv) total expenditure on scholarships was
US$7.84 million compared to the US$6.77 million restructured estimate (115.8%).
-19-



TABLE 5.3 COMPARISON BY COMPONENT-NATION AND PROVINCES
in millions
EXPECTED    ACTUALS AT 
______ ______ _____ 30/06/0  1   _ _ _ _ _ _
NACION                                    61.56            60.74         98.66
fi,kidAsz                       M~~~~~1.7 M      6.65         89.04
PROFOR                                     9.87            9.00           91.17
SINEkC                                     7.79             625           80.26
ECSE                                       3.4464                        i79
SAF                                        3.44            6.27          182.57
INFRASTRUCTURE                             2.89            2.57           88.93
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT                  6.72            5.84           86.90
BUENOS AIRIS                              23.49            23.27          99.06
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                9.07            10.73         118.30
QUAflTY OF bZEDCA fib;                     S. 74           3.86           67.25
INFRASTRUCTURE                             7.69            7.66           99.61
PROJECT COORDINA TION UNIT                 0.99            1.02          103.03
MENI)UZA                                  35.03            34.38          98.14
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                2.11             .9127
Q1UALIT6OFEDUCfATIO1                      is.4t6141
INFRASTRUCTURE                            15.49            15.389.2
PROJeCT CORIATINUI                         .9              2-.2-4        ii
r* ISIO NES                               21.56            20.74
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENINVG               1.57            1.65          i05.10
0vALiTy6j4b66Afi6N             ~4.1              4.05          98.7
iNFRASTRUCfTURE                           14.4             13.65         94.2
PROEC COORDINATION UITWI                   1.41            1.39           98.58
NELIQLI EN                                jj6              M0.21           .6
INVN.SIIILINAV.L SIRENGT.HENJNIG          1.91             1.42           14.35
QUALITY OF EDUCATION           ~~~~2.12          1.42          66.98
INFRASTRUCTURE                            27.93            26.11          93.48
PROJECT COORDNA TION UNIT                  1.73            1.26           72.83
RIO NEGRO                                 2.i              i6.9      ~    06.6
INST-IZTUIONAL STRENGTHENING .37S.69.0
QUAIMTY OFEDL'C.4 TIO.V                   1.20             0.41           3~4.17
INFRASTRUCTURE                            17.101579.9
A~bJECTOORDINTION UIT                0.96             .1            115.63
INFSTITUTTIONVAL S TRE NG THENVING          .               .29.6
QUALJfAOPU/JAWkN                           33               .    ~    ~
INFRASTRUCTURE                            15.80            14.49          91.74
P~j~     6hbA~&EI                          0.7              0.88         101.15
ITOTAL                             [      223.60           231
In looking at actual expenditures compared with restructured total costs (after mnisprocurement) in the
national component and by region (table 5.3), we notice that: (i) total expenditure on the national
component was US$60.74 million against US$61.56 million (98.7%); (ii) total expenditure in the province
of Buenos Aires was US$23.27 million against US$23.49 million (99.1%); (iii) total expenditwre in the
- 20 -



province of Mendoza was US$34.38 million against US$35.03 million (98.1%); (iv) expenditure in the
province of Misiones was US$20.74 million against US$21.56 million (96.2%); (v) total expenditure in the
province of Neuquen was US$30.21 million against US$33.69 million (89.7%); (vi) total expenditure in the
province of Rio Negro was US$20.85 million against US$23.01 million (90.6%); and (vii) total
expenditure in the province of Santa Fe was US$22.99 million against US$25.26 million (91%).
The total project non-expenditure of approximately US$6.52 million can be largely explained by: (i) a
delay in the original infrastructure program proposed by the province of Rio Negro due to lack of local
provincial contribution; and (ii) insufficient progress in the components of institutional strengthening and
education quality enhancement in the province of Neuquen as a result, in part, of the political decision
made in this province to freeze the restructuring process of the EGB3 and polimodal curriculum.
Audits. The Auditoria General de la Naci6n (AGN), the independent agency responsible for auditing
PRODYMES I and preparing annual auditing reports, consistently failed during the life of the project to
submit timely reports to the Bank within the periods established in the Loan Agreement. The delays ranged
from two to three months during almost the entire implementation cycle, but increased to almost five
months in 2000 (corresponding to the 1999 Auditing Report). The unqualified (clean) Auditing Report for
fiscal year 2000 was submitted to the Bank at the end of October 2001. After reviewing the report it was
considered acceptable to the Bank. During the ICR mission, an agreement was reached with AG to request
AGN to prepare and submit to the Bank, prior to June 30, 2002, the auditing report for the period covering
January 01, 2001 to October 31, 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Given the deteriorating financial situation in Argentina at the time of the ICR mission, and which worsened
since then, it would be premature to assess the medium- and long-term financial sustainability of project
activities. Notwithstanding these circumstances, the ICR mission perceived several factors supporting the
likelihood for sustaining the gains made in institutional strengthening, infrastructure and education quality
improvement financed under the project.
Institutional strengthening. At the provincial level, there are indications that PREGASE will be
continued under the framework of ongoing State Modernization efforts being conducted by the Jefatura de
Gabinete de Ministros. PREGASE has already been extended to 23 of the 24 provinces of the country.
Moreover, the implementation of PREGASE in a province, and compliance with its criteria, has become a
requirement set by NME for the province to access other federally-sponsored credit lines for teacher
training, curriculum development, infrastructure, provision of learning goods and equipment, and technical
assistance.  Also, through PREGASE, legal rules (decrees, resolutions) institutionalizing new
administrative procedures and practices have been issued. The ICR mission was informed that the
recurrent expenditures required to continue operating PREGASE paid for out of the provincial budgets
during the project cycle, has been absorbed in NME's budget. However, the ICR mission also noted at the
time of the writing of this report, that the CY02 budgets for NME and the six project PMEs had not yet
been approved.
It is unlikely that PROFOR will be sustainable because, although some of its actions concerning teacher
training, have been included within the structure of the NME, no financing has been contemplated to
continue its original activities. Likewise, SAF, as conceived in the project design, has not been sustained as
it was stopped early during project implementation. Instead, and under the framework of the ongoing State
- 21 -



Modernization program mentioned above, the NME has been requested by the Jefatura de Gabinete de
Ministros to undertake a modernization program, including: (i) development and implementation of an
annual business plan and budget based on agreed results; (ii) streamlining unionized and non-unionized
(consultants) personnel from MNE's monthly payroll; (iii) modernizing internal managerial processes and
their corresponding management information systems; (iv) undertaking a more efficient textbook
procurement process; and (v) rationalizing the physical inventory (buildings and real estate) assigned to the
NME. With regards to ECSE, NME has informed that this project activity will continue operating for the
next five years under the recently approved IDB loan. It is the ICR mission's opinion that, although this
IDB funding will make it possible to continue financing the cost analysis work, its long-term sustainability
is still uncertain because this program has not yet been sufficiently internalized and appropriated by the
provincial ministries of education as an integral element of their daily managerial functions. At the time of
the ICR writing, the IDB loan has not yet been made effective.
REDFIED and SINEC have been institutionalized in one single parastatal agency (IDECE) within NME's
budget. The ICR mission was informed that in several provinces, the minimum qualified staff structures
have been created to allow these measurement activities to continue. However, the ICR mission noted that
the financial crisis in Argentina has hindered IDECE in conducting the school census and the annual
learning assessment measurement for the year 2001. Information has reached the Bank at the time of the
writing of this ICR, that IDECE will not have the financial resources to undertake these measurements in
2002.
Infrastructure. Sustainability for this project component depends exclusively on the funding capabilities
of the nation and provinces to maintain the works implemented by the project and to guarantee the
necessary provincial infrastructure that would continue to increase access to EGB3 and the polimodal
cycle. The current limited provincial budgets raise legitimate questions regarding the ability of the
Borrower to continue extending the provincial infrastructure while maintaining the existing one in an
appropriate manner. In addition, the ICR mission found no evidence of provincial school maintenance
plans and specific budgets. With regard to the three infrastructure investments made under the national
component of the project, the ICR mission is of the opinion that they can be considered sustainable as long
as there is operational and budgetary capacity to guarantee an adequate level of maintenance.
Improvement of the quality of education. As mentioned elsewhere in the report, quality education
improvement in the EGB3 and polimodal cycles was not high in the priorities of PRODYMES I. The
sustainability of these actions should be assessed at the time of the ICR missions of PRODYMES II and III
(due on or about August 2002), since education quality improvement in these levels was the esence of these
Bank-financed projects. Nonetheless, teacher training activities financed under PRODYMES I are
considered to be only partially sustainable given the amount of funding earmarked by the national (Federal
Network for Continuing Teacher Training) and provincial budgets for this purpose. The provinces that
have revised their EGB3 and polimodal curriculum are building up on this new curricular structure with
adjustments to their supervision scheme, teacher training support and provision of new learning materials
and equipment (some of it financed under PRODYMES II and some to be financed under the new IDB
loan). However, the ICR mission is of the view that the long-term sustainability of the provision of
textbooks, teaching materials and learning equipment after the closing of PRODYMES II and the new IDB
loan is questionable in the current financial crisis facing Argentina.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
PRODYMES I used a combination of strategies for both the implementation as well as for the transition
arrangement of project activities to regular operation at the national and provincial levels. All but three
-22 -



institutional strengthening sub-components at the national level were carried out using the normal structure
of the NMCE. SINEC and REDFIED have been merged in a new sector parastal - IDECE. Infrastructure
is managed by the corresponding managerial area within the Undersecretary of Basic Education in the
current structure of the NME where appropriate capacity building has taken place to ensure a regular
operation of this component. Likewise, the activities included in the quality improvement component, like
support for curriculum development, teacher training, textbooks and learning materials, are part of the
current structure of the Undersecretary of Basic Education in NME. These quality-related activities are
being coordinated by the NME but implemented by each province that has agreed to the criteria set by
PREGASE in the project design. At the provincial level, the quality interventions included in the
continuation of the curriculum reforns as well as those related to school infrastructure have been
transferred to the regular structures within their PMEs.
The ICR mission is of the view that it is still premature to define an exit strategy for PREGASE at both the
national and provincial levels, given: (i) its current stage of implementation in 23 provinces with varying
degrees of progress (more than half of the provinces begun recently applying the PREGASE criteria in their
educational sectors); and (ii) the uncertainty as to whether the final approved CY02 budgets for NME and
PMEs will include sufficient resources to continue supporting the implementation of PREGASE in the light
of the severe financial crisis affecting Argentina.
After nine years implementing the secondary education decentralization process in Argentina, the following
pattern seems to be emerging between the NME and the PMEs. The NME is assuming responsibility for:
(i) setting national education policy under the framework of the Federal Law of Education; and (ii)
conducting, through IDECE, the periodic measuring of learning assessment outcomes and collection of
education statistics and feeding the findings to the school stakeholders for remedial and/or preventive
measures. In addition, and under a strict adherence of the provinces to the PREGASE scheme, NME is
carrying out strategies to assist the provinces in improving the equity, quality and efficiency of their
education systems. These strategies include the provision to the provinces of: (a) school construction
resources to increase access in a targeted fashion; (b) textbooks, learning materials and equipment; (c)
student scholarships in a targeted fashion; (d) technical assistance for in-service teacher training; (e)
technical assistance for the training of school principals; (f) technical assistance for curriculum
restructuring for all levels; and (g) institutional strengthening through the modules developed under
PREGASE (as explained before in this report). The PMEs are assuming responsibility for: (h) the
day-to-day management and operation of the school system devolved to them (the primary education in the
seventies and the secondary education in the early nineties); (i) the curriculum restructuring for all levels
and alignment of other learning inputs to the revised curriculum; and 0) complementing, with their own
provincial resources and initiatives, all of the above-mentioned strategies to improve the equity, quality and
efficiency of their education system.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
At the time of identification it became quite difficult for the Bank staff to reach an agreement with the AG
with respect to the type, size and scope of the project mainly due to: (i) the incipient status of the
Argentinean educational reform; (ii) insufficient understanding of the decentralization model and
implementation process and the roles to be palyed by the national and provincial authorities in this
changing environment; (iii) the ongoing process for the transference of the secondary schools from the
NMCE to Provincial Governments; and (iv) the extremely centralized decision making process in the
NMCE coupled with the lack of power of PMEs. This situation was further complicated by: (a) the
- 23 -



profound educational transformations at the secondary and polirnodal levels requiring further understanding
on issues concerning curriculum, pedagogy, organizational and management structures at the school level
and the financial formula linked to the education reform (percentages of the education reform total cost to
be provided by the nation and the provinces); and (b) the insufficient knowledge of the government
educational authorities about the Banks goals, procedures and lending conditions. To overcome this
situation the Bank and the AG carried out a sound policy dialogue to identify the sectors issues to be
addressed by the project including assistance in: (a) the structure and management of the education sector;
(b) education financing and expenditures; (c) internal and external efficiency; (d) quality and equity of
secondary education; and (e) administrative, managerial and planning capacity both at the national and
provincial levels. As shown in Annex 4 of this report, the thrust of the Bank's technical assistance was
provided during the October 1993 pre-appraisal mission, the January 1994 post-pre-appraisal mission and
the March 1994 appraisal mission.
With the exception of the initial policy dialogue mission in May 1992, the entire preparation process until
effectiveness was under the responsibility of one Bank task manager. Project preparation activities
required the technical assistance from qualified international and local specialists in economic of education,
education management, curriculum development, education assessment, teaching materials and textbooks
and infrastructure. As a result of these efforts the project design was technically and institutionally sound
with the exception of one risk related to the insufficient prior assessment by the Bank team of the
implementation capacity of the national and the provinces. Balancing the strong and weak features of the
Bank's technical assistance during project preparation, the ICR mission has ranked the Bank performance
as satisfactory.
The ICR mission noted that further technical support could have being provided by the Bank team for: (i)
the preparation of first year action-plans at the national and provincial levels, especially the procurement
plans including bid-packages and time-table to carry out the procurement activities; (ii) the establishment at
the outset of project implementation of a sound project monitoring system; and (iii) carrying out a timely
and appropriate implementation capacity assessment at the national and provincial levels.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank carried out a total of 11 supervision missions until the closure of the project. Prior to each one
of these supervision missions, the national project coordination unit (NPCU), prepared and delivered to the
Bank in a timely manner, well-documented project implementation progress reports that resulted valuable
documentation to accomplish the mission's objectives. Only three task managers were in charge of the
entire implementation and the supervision missions, thus needed supervision continuity was largely
achieved by the Bank teams. The supervision teams were composed by a rather stable mix of appropriate
Bank staff and qualified external consultants. Bank supervisions were instrumental in identifying feasible
solutions to address relevant project implementation issues such as: (i) unsatisfactory counterpart funding
due to AG's and provincial government's severe budgetary restrictions; (ii) delays in processing agreed
project's amendments; (iii) frequent turnover of government official at the national and provincial levels;
(iv) the overestimation of the implementation and financial capacity of the nation and the provinces at the
appraisal stage; (v) the uneven implementation progress of the educational reforms among the project
provinces; (vi) the need to reformulate the institutional strengthening strategy due to the rather weak
provincial capacity; and (vii) the elimination and inclusion of new provinces (as explained in Section 4.2.(f)
PREGASE).
As shown in Annex 4, during the 1996-1998 period, several Bank supervision missions rated the
implementation progress as unsatisfactory. However, as of mid-1998, Bank supervision contributed to
- 24 -



improving project implementation progress by assisting the Borrower in making the following key
decisions: (i) increasing the pari-passu in some categories of expenditure as well as the amount in the
special account and the reimbursements through Statements of Expenditure; (ii) changing the loan
distribution by expenditure categories and the expenditures of the NPCU and Provincial Project
Coordination Units (PPCU); (iii) approaching the technical assistance for the provincial institutional
strengthening component in a holistic fashion; (iv) promoting some (although still insufficient)
cross-fertilization of experiences among project provinces; (v) assisting in further clarifying the role of the
nation and the provinces during project execution; (vi) assisting in the inclusion of new provinces to the
project; (vii) setting rules for the continuance of the provinces in the project; (viii) reminding provinces of
their contractual obligation to make available in a timely fashion counterpart funds required for the
execution of their envisaged project activities; (ix) updating impact indicators and targets for project
implementation; and (ix) requesting solid justification for project amendments and extension.  Each
supervision mission ended with a well-documented Aide Memoire (AM) including progress made, issues in
need to be addressed, recommendations and agreed solutions. Each AM, thoroughly discussed, signed by
all the parts concerned and widely distributed was subsequently used as a monitoring and follow up
mechanism. In addition, to continue strengthening the carrying out of procurement activities under the
Loan, the Bank provided in the field three procurement workshops in 1995, 1997 and 2000 with ample
participation of the NPCU and the six PPCUs. These procurement workshops were highly appreciated by
the participants as attested by their post-workshop comments.
On the downside, the ICR mission noted that the Bank's early insistence as a condition of disbursement for
civil works, that the Borrower conduct management and efficiency studies of the provincial education
structures, significantly delayed initial disbursements.  As explained elsewhere in this report, this
disbursement condition was subsequently withdrawn by the Bank and replaced with action-plans and
provision of institutional strengthening technical assistance to the provincial Ministries of Education.
Although there were at least two supervision missions per year in the period 1996-2000 and all project
provinces were visited several times during this period, the Bank team did not ensure a visit to all project
provinces at least once a year. Balancing the strengths and weaknesses of the Bank supervision missions
explained above, the ICR mission rated Bank supervision as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Bank performance during preparation and supervision was in general effective, as outlined in Sections 7.1
and 7.2, with some exceptions. As mentioned elsewhere in this report, the Bank could have been more
proactive in: (i) carrying out an appropriate implementation capacity assessment of the national and
provincial levels at the time of project preparation; (ii) providing training in procurement and disbursement
at the early stages of project implementation; (iii) providing more systematic technical assistance in the area
of institutional development at the onset of project implementation; (iv) requesting the establishment of a
sound monitoring and evaluation system with respect to project targets; (v) requesting a first-year
action-plan and budget including a procurement plan with bids and schedule to carry out the procurement
activities; and (vi) visiting twice a year every project province, at least during the first 18 months of
implementation, to reprogram activities and to foster a start up process. Also, the disbursement condition
set up at the start of project implementation was ill-considered and later withdrawn. Under the difficult
project implementation environment and limited Borrower capacity to overcome the financial and issues,
the mixed Bank performance explained above is ranked overall as satisfactory.
- 25 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
PRODYMES I was the Bank's first experience in the Argentina education sector and focused on national
and provincial funding, initially to support the NMCE and seven provinces in the process of transforming
secondary education. Without any previous background information that could have served as a reference
point for ensuring a smoother preparation process, both the AG and the Bank had a hands-on learning
experience as the conceptualization, preparation and implementation of the project progressed. This first
experience became a rich source of lessons learned that were subsequently included in more effective
preparation and implementation processes of PRODYMES II, III and III-A (other Bank-financed sector
investments in Argentina) and by other multi and bilateral organizations such as the IDB. In effect, the
preparation time of approximately 28 months that elapsed between the identification mission for
PRODYMES I in May 1992 and the loan approval by the Bank Board on September 1994 was drastically
reduced to nearly half for the preparation of PRODYMES II, Im and HI-A. This significant improvement
resulted from greater clarity and operational definition regarding the content and strategy of the education
reform at both the national and provincial levels and by the experience gained, mainly by the national team.
Another major lesson resulting from the preparation of PRODYMES I was the need for greater clarity with
respect to: (i) the roles of the national and provincial authorities in the execution of Bank-funded
investments in the sector; and (ii) the project execution capacity building requirements to ensure
implementation readiness. Clarity of roles and early stakeholder involvement at all levels of project
preparation, and later on, of project implementation, significantly reduces resistance to change, ensures
ownership and increases the likelihood for sustainability. Also, as a consequence of improved clarity of
roles, national and provincial implementation teams for the new projects that followed PRODYMES I were
given anticipated and appropriate training in Bank procedures prior to the Loan Effectiveness of such
investments. As mentioned before, having one NPCU and six PPCUs complicated project implementation
to a great extent.
Another lesson learned is that subsequent Bank-financed education sector investments considered only one
project coordination unit. This is also one of several reasons explaining why PRODYMES II was
restructured before implementation started to ensure only one PCU. Finally, although PRODYMES I
focused strongly on provincial and national management processes and structures, its implementation
suggested that the subsequent Bank-financed education projects in Argentina focus on improving the
quality of secondary education by supporting the transformation of: (a) teaching processes in the
classrooms (PRODYMES II); (b) the polimodal level in a single province (PRODYMES III); and (c)
teaching processes in full-day schedule EGB3 schools in a single province (PRODYMES Ill-A).
Moreover, with the recent identification of a new project last August (whose preparation has been now
postponed to FY04 due to the financial crisis affecting the country), the possibility is now open to continue
supporting the secondary schools of the City of Buenos Aires (CBA) and the EGB3 and polimodal levels in
seven new provinces with respect to: (d) the rural areas; (e) the strengthening of technical and professional
education; and (f) the strengthening of teacher pre- and in-service training institutions for these levels.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Since the inception of PRODYMES I, and throughout its entire implementation, there has been a consistent
adherence by all the elected national and provincial governments to the process of transferring
responsibility for all secondary education to the provinces, within the framework of the education reform
set in motion by the National and the Provincial Governments after the approval of the Federal Education
- 26 -



Law in 1993. The AG also consistently supported: (i) the changes in the structure of grades, levels and
curricular content of the education system; (ii) the actions required to increase access to the EGB3 and
polimodal levels; (iii) the measures for improving the efficiency of the EGB3 and polimodal levels in terms
of reducing repetition and dropout rates and increasing the number of students graduating those cycles; (iv)
the monitoring of learning assessment outcomes in language, mathematics, social and natural sciences; (v)
policies and strategies aimed at improving the quality and equity of the system; and (vi) the improvement of
the educational management at the national, provincial and school levels. However, the ICR mission also
noted that AG failed to: (a) provide timely counterpart funds; (b) apply technical criteria in making
budgetary decisions; (c) speed up the process of the agreed project's amendments; and (d) retain qualified
project staff.
PRODYMES I execution cycle coincided with the launching of the Bank-financed PRODYMES II and the
PRISE IDB-financed education investment. The management of these three investments under different
project coordination units resulted in overlapped activities until the coordinating units were merged in
September 1996. This merging in a single implementation unit to coordinate the execution of sector
programs (Unidad de Coordinacion Nacional de Prestamos con Financiamiento Extemo), regardless of the
source of funding, resulted in a more efficient, effective, and timely management (see Section 8.b).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
It became apparent during the implementation of PRODYMES I that the structural changes envisaged by
the education reform were progressing unevenly in the project provinces. All the project provinces, except
Neuquen, and to a certain degree Mendoza, maintained the new structure proposed by the Federal
Education Law including EGBI1 (grades 1 to 3), EGB2 (grades 4 to 6), EGB3 (grades 7 to 9) and
polimodal level (grades 10 to 12). Mendoza, in agreement with NME, changed its structure and is applying
a model in which EGB 1 encompasses three grades, EGB2 four grades, EGB3 only two and polimodal three
grades. Neuquen changed EGB 1 and EGB2 as prescribed by the education reform but postponed applying
it to the EGB3 and polimodal cycles maintaining instead an eclectic structure with a loose 7th. grade and a
pre-reform secondary level. At the time of the ICR mission, only the Province of Buenos Aires
implemented the new structure in all the levels of the polimodal, while Mendoza, Misiones and Santa Fe
were just starting.
Each participating province formulated its own provincial proposal that, while within the framework of the
general objectives of PRODYMES I, did not assign similar priorities to project activities, especially those
related to educational quality improvement and management. Instead, they assigned priority to the civil
works component of the project. The ICR mission noted striking differences in the capacity to implement
the project at the provincial level. In the view of the ICR mission, the implementation agency failed to: (i)
appropriately estimate at the appraisal stage the implementation and financial capacity of the provinces; (ii)
timely correct the visible disparities in the implementation capacity among the provinces; and (iii)
reformulate much earlier during project implementation, the institutional strengthening strategy when the
weak provincial capacity was detected. The ICR mission recognizes, that despite the failures noted above
at the early stages of project implementation, the implementing agency, with the assistance of the Bank
supervision teams, was able to effectively correct course mid-way project implementation.
The ICR mission also noted that project implementation would have greatly improved had a well-designed,
and fully operational, monitoring and evaluation system been put in place at the early stages of the project
cycle. Such a system would have provided the flexibility to correct course, if necessary, during project
implementation. In addition, project implementation effectiveness would have also significantly improved,
had a more intensive and comprehensive cross-fertilization program been set up throughout the project
- 27 -



implementation cycle to disseminate good provincial project-related practices through training, workshops,
seminars, technical assistance, demonstration events and/or conventions.
The ICR mission included a random post procurement review in the provinces of Misiones and Santa Fe
and the NPCU. The sample selected included 167 contracts (about 4.2% of the total amount of contracts
entered during the life of the project) amounting to an aggregate of about US$13 million (approximately
17% of the total amount contracted). The sample included contracts concerning acquisition of computer
equipment and teacher training material, carrying out civil works and selection of individual consultants.
The sample included 3 ICBs contracts for goods, 8 contracts procured under NCB (5 for goods and 3 for
civil works), 75 contracts procured under shopping for goods and civil works, 2 contracts of consulting
firms under QCBS and 79 individual consultants selected under competitive interview procedures. No
contracts for the categories of operating costs and implementation expenditures were included in the
sample. The post review concluded that with the exception of one misprocurement, the Borrower followed
up the Bank guidelines and procedures. As mentioned before, on July 17, 2000 the Bank issued a
misprocurement declaration for an ICB process for the procurement of computers in the Province of
Neuquen (LPI 01/99), reducing the loan amount in US$1.31 million.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower's project implementation performance was uneven but overall satisfactory. With respect to the
content and intention of the education policy at the national and provincial levels, the ICR mission provides
a highly satisfactory rating because of the relative continuity and consistency during the life of the project.
With respect to the implementation of such policy, the ICR rating is satisfactory because of the uneven
progress in restructuring the EGB3 and polimodal among the provinces. With respect to the financial
aspects of the project, the ICR rating is unsatisfactory due to the constant lack of counterpart funds that
produced slow disbursements and consequentially affected severely project implementation. With respect
to the institutional development, the ICR rating is satisfactory due on the one hand to the achievements
explained before and on the other, to the uneven progress shown in the provinces. Finally, with respect to
the infrastructure aspects of the project, the ICR rating is highly satisfactory.
- 28 -



Table of Status of Leal Covenants
Agreement/       Covenant        Present Status        Original         Revised       Description of Covenant      Comments
Section          Type                            Fulfillment Dates   Fulfillment
Dates
1.02 (c)         5                                                                 The need for subsidiary  Approved by the Bank
agreement to be a participating  on 12/ 21/95
province
2.03           5            06/30/2000           06/30/200                            Closing date         Approved by the
Bank on 8/10/99
3.01           10            Complied                                           Borrower's commitment to   As attested by all
implement the project       the PSRs
according to the project
description provided in
Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement
3.02           10            Complied                                            Procurement of goods and   With only one
services according to Bank  exception, as
guidelines           attested by the
extensive random
ex-post procurement
reviewed
3.03           5             Complied                                              Maintain the NPCU
3.09           9             Complied                                           Borrower will report every
year on the progress of
project implementation
4.01           1             Complied                                            Borrower maintenance of     Annual audit
project financial records  reports were not
submitted on time
4.02            1             Complied                                         Project provinces maintenance o  Annual audit reports
project financial records  were not submitted on
time
6.01            10            Complied                                            Conditions of effectiveness  Project became
effective on 8/18/ 95
Schedule 1          3                                                                Allocation of Loan Proceeds  There were two
reallocations of the
amounts of the Loan
and modification of the
pari-passus as
approved by the Bank
on 11/19/98 and
4/12/99
Schedule 5          3         The amount in the                                           Special Account       Approved by the
Para. 1(c)                     Special Account                                                                  Bank on 4/12/99
increases to US$15
million
Covenant type: 1: Accounts/audit; 2: Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3: Flow and utilization of
Project funds; 4: Counterpart funding; 5: Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency; 6: Environmental
covenants; 7: Involuntary resettlement; 8: Indigenous people; 9: Monitoring, review and reporting; 10: Implementation; 11:
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action;
13: Other
8. Lessons Learned
During preparation stage:
(a)      Conducting an implementation capacity assessment related to financial, technical and legal
issues ensures readiness and avoids implementation delays. Project implementation was significantly
delayed during the first two years of the project cycle due to lack of an implementation capacity assessment
prior to loan effectiveness. To avoid delays, it is necessary to assess implementation capacity including: (i)
establishing a qualified project coordination team; (ii) providing technical assistance in Bank procedures
before the start of project implementation; and (iii) developing a first-year work program and budget
- 29 -



including a procurement plan (including bid packages and time-tables to carry out procurement activities).
(b)    Establishing a single Project Coordination Unit in the case of multiple sources of funding for
projects within the same sector avoids overlap and increases effectivenss. PRODYMES I execution
cycle coincided with the implementation of the Bank-financed PRODYMES II and PRISE IDB-financed
education investment, leading to two independent, but often overlapping, project coordination units. These
two units were merged in September 1996. The ICR mission concluded that the existence of a single
implementation unit to coordinate the execution of sector programs regardless of the source of national
and/or international funding results in the achievement of economies of scale, greater rationalization and
efficiency of resources, speedier actions as well as eliminates unnecessary overlapping of activities making
project implementation more effective. This recommendation points also to the project implementation
complexities caused by the existence of various project coordination units for the same investment.
(c)    Thorough rigorous diagnostic studies and analysis are necessary when sectors are undergoing
profound tranformation.  Preparation for first time sector investments in a context of profound
educational transformation requires further understanding of the issues concerning: (i) the adoption of
institutional and pedagogical policies; (ii) the structure and management of the education sector; (iii) the
education financing and expenditures; (iv) the internal and external efficiency (pertinence); (v) the quality
and equity of education; and (vi) appropriateness of project design and targeting criteria.
(d)    Thorough understanding of the decentralization model and implementation process. The
preparation and implementation cycles require that the envisaged roles of the different national and
provincial actors assumed by the decentralization model, including spheres of authority and responsibility,
be significantly clarified at the outset, and their ownership ensured.
(e)    Avoid unrealistic disbursement conditions that may delay project implementation like the
Bank's early insistence as a condition of disbursement for civil works, that the Borrower conduct
management and efficiency studies of the provincial education structures, which significantly delayed initial
disbursements.
(f)    Appropriate financial formulas linked to structural education reforms are needed.
Appropriate financial formula establishing a significant increase in the provincial share to education and an
important decrease of the national share are needed to improve the effectiveness of a decentralization
process and increase the empowerment of the decentralized units responsible of implementing the devolved
educational functions.
During implementation
(g)    Ensure ownership.   Early stakeholder involvement at all levels of project implementation
significantly reduces resistance to change and increases the likelihood for sustainability.  Improved
community participation increases the likelihood of more appropriate and frequent maintenance of school
buildings and learning equipment acquired under project investments.
(h)    Establish a well-designed, operational project monitoring and evaluation system. Project
implementation would have greatly improved had a well-designed, and fully operational, monitoring and
evaluation system been put in place at the early stages of the project cycle. Such a system would have
provided the flexibility to correct course, if necessary, during project implementation. A management
information system becomes a powerful tool for laying the ground for the discussion and design of policy
- 30 -



and strategic actions and investments in education. The systematization of administrative processes also
becomes more efficient when computerized processes respond to the same criteria and use compatible
technologies. The use of a single integrated and compatible information system, such as the monitoring and
evaluation system described above, contributes to expediting project-related processes including follow up
of procurement and project financial aspects.
(i)    Disseminate good project practices for periodic cross-fertilization. Project implementation
effectiveness improves when good practices are disseminated and cross-fertilization is encouraged among
participating provinces (through training, workshop, seminars, technical assistance, demonstration events
and/or conventions).
(j)    Learning inputs need to be aligned with the curriculum. The curricular revisions (in a context
of an education reform process) become the center to the design and implementation of other project-related
learning inputs including: (i) teacher pre- and in-service teacher training programs; (ii) textbooks, learning
resources and equipment; (iii) pedagogical support activities; (iv) learning assessment; and (v) construction
and rehabilitation of school spaces.
(k)    Need for demand-driven interventions. There are certain sector investments, like the one
described below, whose design and implementation timing should be guided by demand and not by supply.
Greater community/stakeholder participation ensure ownerships and generates commitment toward: (i) the
improvement of educational management processes through PREGASE; (ii) the maintenance of the
infrastructure and goods acquired; and (iii) the replacement of teaching materials contributing to the quality
of education. In the particular case of civil works, this participation increases when the infrastructure
design considers the creation of multi-use spaces that are open to the community.
(1)    Ensure more effective Bank supervision missions especially in complex multi-province
education projects. A project like PRODYMES I which includes one national and six provincial
geographical areas of implementation requires periodic and thorough supervision missions, visiting, by and
large, all these areas at least once per year with the appropriate qualification mix of consultants and Bank
staff.
(m)    Ensure financial enabling conditions. Sound macro economic and fiscal policies, ensuring
sufficient national and provincial financial resources to the project, are needed especially in a context of
deteriorating financial provincial budgetary deficits. The Bank-financed Provincial Sector Loans, like the
ones in Catamarca, Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan and Tucuman, proved to be effective leverages to improve
the financial enabling conditions of these provinces.
The above list of lessons learned are complemented with the ones identified by the Borrower and detailed in
Annex 10, Chapter 6 of this report.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As fully explained in Annex 10 of this report, Argentina's NMCE and six PMEs began the implementation
of PRODYMES I in order to contribute to improving the efficiency and quality of secondary educational
services. Its original conception in 1992 came at a time when the responsibility for secondary education
was being transferred from the Nation to distinct jurisdictions, and was implemented within the framework
of the transformations brought about by the new Federal Education Law.
- 31 -



In its financial implementation, the project was highly satisfactory, and as of the closing date, had reached
98% of the total amount programmed for the loan. Though the results obtained in the subprojects were not
homogeneous, overall they were satisfactory, especially in some components where very important
objectives were linked to the consolidation of a national decentralized education system.
The actions implemented regarding institutional strengthening included systems for learning evaluation,
information and administration, and built the bases for more rational and modem institutional management.
As for activities aimed at improving the quality of education, the project contributed to the development of
new curriculum, the implementation of innovative pedagogical strategies and the strengthening of targeted
schools. Most of these schools were improved according to the needs of adequate physical space and
equipment
During the life of the project, an adequate level of sustainability of the main activities was reached, though
not consistently, basically due to the existing budget limitations. Sustainability remains an educational
policy objective in the current NME's working agenda, as well as that of provincial educational
organizations.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
An intensive learning ICR was carried out for PRODYMES I in September 2001 (the field work) and
October 4, 2001 (the workshop). The methodology and findings of the Beneficiary Survey are explained in
Annex 8 while the discussion and recommendations of the stakeholders workshop are explained in Annex 9
of this report.
- 32 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorilMatrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Secondary education net enrollment rates  60.1                             64.1
(average percentage in the six provinces)
Gross transition rate from 7th to 8th grade  90.8                          98.9
(average percentage in the six provinces)
Inter-grade promotion rates in secondary
education (average percentage in the six
provinces)
Expenditure ratio of substitute teachers as  18.9                          17.4
percentage of total expenditure on teaching
staff in EGB3 and polimodal cyde (average
percentage in the six provinces)
Expenditure rato of teaching and      93.6                                 93.6
non-teaching personnel out of total provincial
education budget (average percentage in the
six provinces)
Ratio of teaching and non-teaching personnel 97.1                          90.3
expenditure out of total provincial education
budget in EGB3 and polimodal (average
percentage in the six provinces)
Ratio of non-personnel expenditure out of  6.4                             8.1
total provincial education budget (average
percentage in the six provinces)
Ratio of administrative and technical  9.3                                 7.5
personnel expenditure out of total provincial
personnel expenditure in the education sector
(average percentage in the six provinces)
Base data is of 1994.
- 33 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected In last PSR               ActuaULatest Estimate
First grade (8th)                    65.0                                69.4
Second grade (9th)                   62.9                                66.5
Third grade (10th)                   73.8                                77.8
Fourth grade (11th)                  85.0                                85.7
Fifth grade (12th)                   87.2                                73.3
Dropout rates dujing the school year
(average percentage In the six provinces)  18.0                           15.5
First grade (8th)                      .                                  15.5
Second grade (9th)                   15.6                                15.5
Third grade (10th)                    6.8                                 10.4
Fourth grade (11th)                  2.4                                  6.9
Fifth grade (12th)                   23.4                                24.5
Students per section in each grade of the
EGB3 and polimodal cydes (average
percentage in the six provinces)     25.6                                26.9
First grade (8th)                    23.4                                25.7
Second grade (9th)                   21.9                                23.9
Third grade (10th)                   24.9                                21.4
Fourth grade (11th)                  22.8                                 19.2
Fifth grade (12th)
Number of student places per school shift in 174                          191
PRODYMES I secondary schools in
thousands (average percentage in the six
provinces)
End of project
- 34 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
Institutional strengthening                       67.80         76.59        129.65
Quality improvement                               70.90         27.29         38.49
Infrastructure                                    61.90         95.60        154.44
National and provincial coordination units       22.70          13.75         60.57
Total Baseline Cost                              223.30        213.23
Physical Contingencies                           4.47
Price Contingencies                             40.90
Total Project Costs          268.67         213.23
Total Financing Required          268.67         213.23
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                   20.00        23.00        10.50        0.00        53.50
(11.10)      (12.80)      (5.90)      (0.00)      (29.80)
2. Goods                    10.00        19.50       36.10        0.00        65.60
(6.80)      (13.20)      (24.30)      (0.00)      (44.30)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        73.10        0.00        73.10
Technical assistance,      (0.00)       (0.00)       (65.20)      (0.00)     (65.20)
training, studies, audits,
national and provincial
implementation teams
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        12.70        0.00        12.70
Scholarships and grants    (0.00)       (0.00)      (12.70)       (0.00)     (12.70)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        36.80        2.50        39.30
Project implementation     (0.00)       (0.00)      (22.10)       (0.00)     (22.10)
expenditures and land
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        24.50        0.00        24.50
Incremental recurrent      (0.00)       (0.00)      (15.90)       (0.00)     (15.90)
salaries and operating
costs
Total                    30.00        42.50       193.70        2.50       268.70
(17.90)      (26.00)     (146.10)     (0.00)      (190.00)
- 35-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Other2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        7.87          59.97         23.85         0.00         91.69
(4.72)        (38.10)       (14.61)       (0.00)       (57.43)
2. Goods                        9.08          2.57          23.92         0.00          35.57
(7.27)        (2.06)        (19.36)        (0.00)      (28.69)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          66.02         0.00          66.02
Technical assistance,          (0.00)         (0.00)       (59.72)        (0.00)       (59.72)
training, studies, audits,
national and provincial
implementation teams
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          7.83          0.00          7.83
Scholarships and grants        (0.00)         (0.00)       (7.83)         (0.00)       (7.83)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          7.98          0.00          7.98
Project implementation         (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.80)         (0.00)       (4.80)
expenditures and land
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          4.13           0.00         4.13
Incremental recurrent          (0.00)         (0.00)       (2.85)         (0.00)       (2.85)
salaries and operating
costs
Total                        16.95         62.54         133.73         0.00        213.22
(11.99)       (40.16)       (109.17)       (0.00)       (161.32)
Figures in parenthesis are the anounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          ActualLalest Estimate 
Bank      Go%t.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.   iBank   Govt.  CoF.
Institutional strengthening  55.45  29.53             65.21     11.38             117.6   38.5
Quality improvement     55.05     38.47               23.02      4.26              41.8   11.1
Infrastructure          57.33      9.93               60.88     34.73             106.2  349.7
National and provincial  22.18     0.74               12.21      1.53              55.0  206.8
coordination units
Total                   190.00    78.67               161.32    51.90              84.9   66.0
- 36 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
At the time of project appraisal an economic costs and benefits analysis was not required as it is now,
therefore one was not done at the time of the ICR either. Nonetheless, and as mentioned before, during
project preparation an economic analysis of the benefits arising from the project was carried out. This
economic analysis compared investment and incremental operational costs with the potential saving
resulting from the project, such as: (i) reduced repetition; (ii) incremental completion of the secondary
cycle; (iii) improved students/teachers ratios; and (iv) improved efficiency of administrative operations.
Positive changes in these indicators over the life of the project (see Section 4 and Annex 1) support the
analysis of cost benefits.
- 37 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
May 17, 1992                2    One education economist, one
education specialist
October 25, 1992            4    One education economist, one
education specialist, one
financial analyst and one
architect
May 14, 1993                4    One education economist, two
education specialists and one
financial analyst
August 15, 1993             2    One education economist and one
education specialist
October 4, 1993            10    One project implementation
specialist, two education
specialists, two education
economists, one learning
assessment specialist, one
architect, one financial analyst,
one costing and procurement
specialist, and one operations
assistant
January 11, 1994            2    One project implementation
specialist and one education
specialist
Appraisal/Negotiftion
March 7, 1994               9    One project implementation
specialist, two education
specialists, one education
economist, one lawyer, one
disbursements officer, one
architect, one financial
analyst and one costing and
financing specialist
July 15, 1994               9    One project implementation
specialist, one lawyer, one
disbursements officer, one
accounting and auditing
specialist, one education
specialist, one education
economist, one financial analyst,
- 38 -



one costing and financing
specialist and one operations
assistant
Supervision
March 1996                   3   Two education specialists          S             HS
and one human resource
economist
July 1996                    4   One education specialist and       U             S
three education economists
June 1997                    4   Four education economists          S             S
October 1997                 2   Two education economists           S             S
April 1998                   5   Two education specialists, one     U             S
social sector specialist, one
procurement specialist and one
economist
November 1998                7   Three education economists, one    S              S
social sector specialist, one
education specialist, one program
officer and one operations
specialist
March 1999                   9   Two education economists, two      S              S
education specialists, one
technical education specialists,
one project implementation
specialist, one social
development specialist and two
operations assistants
September 1999               5   Two education economists, one      S              S
education specialist, one project
implementation specialist and
one social development specialist
January 2000                 2   One education economist and one     S             S
education specialist
May 2000                     4   One education economist, one        S             S
education specialist, one social
development specialist and one
operations assistant
August 2000                  4   Two education specialists, one      S             S
project implementation specialist
and one social development
specialist
ICR
August 2001                  7    Two education specialists,         S             S
one project implementation
- 39-



specialist, one institutional
strengthening specialist, one
education economist, one
financial management
specialist and one
procurement specialist
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               9.1                        19.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                  194.0                       392.0
Supervision                             66.0                       227.0
ICR                                      8.4                        34.5
Total                                  277.5                       673.2
-40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=ffigh, SU=Substantial, M-Modes$ N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
a Macro policies                            O H   OSUOM A          N  O NA
3 Sector Policies                           O H   *SUOM       ON    O NA
E Physical                                  O H OSUOM O N O NA
El Financial                                OH    OSU*M       ON    O NA
ED Institutional Development                0 H   * SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
El Environmental                            OH    OSUOM       ON    * NA
Social
l  Povertryleduction                 O H   O SU * M    O N   O NA
El Gender                            O H OSUOM ON N *NNA
El Other (Please specify)            OH    OSUOM       ON N  *N N
E Private sector development                0 H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management                  0 H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
El Other (Please specif                     OH H  OSUOM       O N   *  A
Gender is not an issue in EGB3 and the polimodal cycle in the project provinces as attested by the
following facts provided by 1DECE (with infonnation of 1999 and 2000): (i) enrolhnent in every grade of
these two levels (grades 7th to 12th) by gender is about 50% for each sex; (ii) repetition is consistently
lower for women than for men; and (iii) yearly transition rates are slightly higher for women than for men.
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OLU OHU
L Supervision                                       OHS OS        OU    OHU
L Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
FL Preparation                                      OHS OS        O   U  0 HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S      O U   0 HU
FL Implementation agency performance                OHS OS        0 U   O HU
Li Overall                                          OHS OS        0   U  0 HU
The reasons of the above rankings are fully explained in Section 7 of this report.
-42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
May, 1992.
Initial Executive Project Summary. The World Bank. August, 1992.
Revised Executive Project Summary. The World Bank. November, 1992.
Preparation Missions Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. October, 1992 - August, 1993.
Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. October, 1993.
Final Executive Project Summary. The World Bank. March 1994.
Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Reports. The World Bank.
March, 1994.
Staff Appraisal Report. Report No. 12993-AR, The World Bank. August 12, 1994
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. July 14, 1994.
Bank project implementation documents
Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports and Project Status Reports
of all the Supervision Missions. The World Bank. March 1996-August 2000.
Borrower project implementation documents
Informes de Avance del PRODYMES I. Project Coordinating Unit. Argentina's National Ministry of
Education. March 1996 - August 2000.
Memoria del Proyecto PRODYMES I. 1995-2001. Project Coordinating Unit. Argentina's National
Ministry of Education. July 2001.
-43-



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Methodology. Bank management decided to carry out an intensive learning ICR for PRODYMES I.
Accordingly, terms of reference were prepared to select a qualified independent agency (NGO) to conduct
field work in 10 project schools per province in two provinces (Buenos Aires and Misiones). The field
work was carried out during September 2001. The schools were randomly selected according to the
characteristics in each province. The objective of the field work was to assess school communities' views
and participation in the implementation of the project's infrastructure component (construction and
equipment). A total of four interviews per school were conducted in each one of the 20 sampled schools for
a total of 80 interviews. The four interviews per school included one parent, one student, one teacher and
the school principal. The students and teachers were selected randomly while the interview with parents
was pre-arranged based on the parents' availability.  The interviews were conducted through
well-constructed questionnaires. The findings of the field work were discussed at a workshop carried out
on October 4, 2001 in Buenos Aires. The main findings and recommendations of the workshop are
discussed in Annex 9.
The survey included the following six dimensions to be assessed: (i) familiarity with the project; (ii)
perceived need for infrastructure investments in the school; (iii) perceived need for the acquisition of
learning equipment for the school; (iv) perceived impact of these investments; (v) degree of participation of
school stakeholders in the above-mentioned investment decisions; and (vi) perceived degree of project
implementation effectiveness.
Gender and age-range of the interviewees. About 60% of the sample interviewed was female.
Regarding age distribution, about 25% of the participants were in the 13 to 21 years age range, 35% were
22 to 45 years-old and 40% were over 46 years-old.
Awareness of PRODYMES I. About 60% of the parents and 80% of the students were not familiar with
the PRODYMES I program. On the other hand, 75% of the teachers and 100% of the school principals
were aware of PRODYMES I. These percentages are quite similar in both provinces.
Usefulness of the school construction investments. Over 97.5% of those interviewed in the province of
Buenos Aires and over 92.5% in Misiones thought that the school construction made under the project had
been very useful. When asked about the meaning of "usefulness of the construction investments", about
88.7% expressed that these investments improved school conditions, 8.8% felt that these investments
contributed to increase access to EGB3 and 2.5% said that school security was improved.
Usefulness of the school equipment investments. Notwithstanding that PRODYMES I carried out
limited investments in learning equipment (computers, multi-learning resource centers and school
furniture), about 56% of the interviewees considered these investments as very important and useful, 27%
did not respond and 17% gave a medium-to-low rating concerning the acquisition of these learning
materials. The following were some of the responses given with respect to the meaning of "usefulness of
these investments": (i) contributed to the increased knowledge of the students; (ii) allowed students to
interact more closely with new education technologies, especially in the case of computers (49% of the
responses); and (iii) made possible for the development of new school projects.
Stakeholder participation in the decision making. Notwithstanding that the design of PRODYMES I did
not include community participation in the decision making with respect to civil works and acquisition of
learning equipment, 60% of the parents expressed that they were consulted, against 45% of the students,
75% of the teachers and 40% of the school principals.
-44 -



Project implementation. About 60% of the parents and of the students ranked project implementation
from good to very good, against 80% of the teachers and 65% of the school principals. There were 10% of
the parents, 15% of the teachers and 25% of the school principals that considered PRODYMES I
implementation as average, and 5% of the students, as unsatisfactory. Finally, on the aggregate, 78.7% of
the surveyed persons considered that the implementation of PRODYMES I improved the functioning of the
EGB3 and polimodal schools.
-45-



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Workshop. A workshop to analyze the findings of the field survey was carried out in the facilities of the
Buenos Aires branch of UNESCO's International Institute of Educational Planning (IIEP) on October 4,
2001. The workshop was attended by about 50 participants from the national government (Ministry of
Education and Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros), provincial education authorities from the six
PRODYMES I provinces, representatives from the selected NGO (Asociaci6n Conciencia) that
participated in the design, administration and processing of the survey, representatives of the IIEP (which
served as rapporteur of the event), one senior member of the Bank education network not belonging to the
region (Ana Maria Jeria, Senior Human Development Specialist, SASHD), the social sector leader and the
social development specialist (LCC7C). The entire intensive learning exercise from the design of the terms
of reference (TORs) to the workshop, including the field work, took about 20 working days, which
compares extremely well with intensive learning ICRs experiences in other countries. All the relevant
documentation of the intensive learning ICR including the TORs, the results of the survey, the workshop
discussion and recommendations, the executive summary and long-workshop reports and Ms. Jeria's
back-to-office report, have been electronically filed in the project files.
Main topics of discussion. The following were the main topics of presentation and discussion during the
workshop: (i) ex-post implementation thoughts by the LCC7C sector leader; (ii) findings of the survey
presented by Asociacion Conciencia (fully described in Annex 8 of the ICR); (iii) comments by the Bank
education network representative; and (iv) recommendations.
The LCC7C's sector leader emphasized that the "effective" implementation cycle of less than five years
(from 1997 to 2001) is too short to measure a significant impact of the project. In addition, the
non-experimental design of the project did not include a control group of provinces and EGB3 and
poliomdal schools with their respective baseline data to assess the impact of the project interventions.
Notwithstanding the above, PRODYMES I has served as a laboratory to improve the preparation and
execution of subsequent sector investments (PRODYMES II, III and II-A) and make them more focused in
addressing the pedagogical and equity issues phased in the EGB3 and polimodal cycles. The discussion
among participants centered on: (i) the need to timely share the Bank's Aide-Memoires (for both project
preparation and supervision along with the forthcoming ICR) with all the participating provinces; (ii) the
need to tailor the project interventions to the demands and characteristics of the participating provinces;
(iii) the need to synchronize the timing of project implementation with the timing of the education reform;
and (iv) the need to continue addressing education reform, institutional strengthening and school
infrastructure as unfinished agendas.
The workshop attendees were, in general terms, in agreement with the survey findings, except in relation to
the parents' participation in project implementation decision making. The perception of the audience was
that such participation in the decision making was by and large not present in PRODYMES I, and that the
survey responses were skewed as a consequence of the parents' selection criteria in the survey.
The Bank education network representative emphasized: (a) the quality of the workshop participants and
the issues raised; (b) the Bank's convening power, since federal authorities and most provinces, if not all,
were generously represented by education and other civil servants at the workshop; (c) the survey of
beneficiaries conducted by the NGO and the positive response it generated from the Government staff who
participated in the workshop; (d) the need to enhance the Bank-client partnership in the new generation of
projects as a means to ensure effective client participation in the project design; (e) the "Cooperadora" work
in the Province of Buenos Aires might be a good model worth expanding in other provinces; and (f) the
processes of consultation and participation, involving key stakeholders which could contribute to improve
-46 -



sustainability and ownership.
Recommendations. Three recommendations were made at the workshop: (i) include in the ICR the project
outcomes by province; (ii) evaluate further the appropriateness of the civil works and learning equipment
financed by the project with respect to other quality improvement initiatives being taken in the school (as a
consequence of the application of PRODYMES II and other sector investments); and (iii) ensure a wide
dissemination of the Bank Aide-Memoires after each supervision mission, including this ICR
-47 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution
1. Objectives and structure. The project was a joint initiative of the NMCE and the PMEs of six
provinces with the objective of improving the efficiency and quality of educational services at the
intermediary (secondary) level. Its conception in 1992 came at a time when the responsibility for
intermediary education services was being transferred from the Nation to distinct jurisdictions, and its
implementation took place within the framework of the transformations brought about by the new
Federal Education Law (promulgated in 1993).
The newly assigned responsibilities associated with the provinces' direct management of education
revealed the need to strengthen, develop and improve its education systems within the context of greater
decentralization, as well as redefine roles between the national government and the provinces. Within
this context, the project aimed at: (i) strengthening and developing the management capacity of the
NMCE, the six project PMEs and participating schools; (ii) contributing to the incorporation of
substantial quality improvement of education and providing physical equipment and adequate
infrastructure to complete its objectives.
The project was structured into the following two main macro-components: (i) one corresponding to
NMCE, involving REDFIED, SINEC, PREGASE, ECSE, PROFOR, SAF as well as several
infrastructure works; and (ii) the other corresponding to the project-related activities in the six provinces
(Buenos Aires, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuqu6n, Rio Negro y Santa Fe).  Each one of these
macro-components focused around three objectives: (a) institutional strengthening; (b) improvement of
education quality; and (c) infrastructure. The amount of investment in each varied according to the
objectives.
2. Amount of investment. The original cost of the project was US$268.67 million, of which US$190
million came from the Loan (70.7% of the total) and US$78.67 million came from counterpart funds
(29.3%) from both the NMCE and the provincial participants. In 1999, PRODYMES I was refinanced
due to the cancellation of US$20 million (10.5% of the original total) of the loan, as requested by the
AG, and a reduction of US$20.36 million from local counterpart funds. With this total reduction of
US$40.36 million, the adjusted total amount of the program came to US$228.31 million, of which
US$170 million corresponded to the World Bank Loan, and US$ 58.31 million to counterpart funds. In
2000, the World Bank declared a bidding process in the province of Neuquen to be inappropriate, and
cancelled US$1.31 million of the loan, while the AG reduced $3.36 million in counterpart funds. At the
time of the completion mission on June 30, 2001, the total amount, including the two adjustments, came
to US$223.64 million (US$168.69 million corresponding to the World Bank Loan and US$54.95
million to counterpart funds).
3. Financial implementation. The financial implementation of PRODYMES I was highly satisfactory,
reaching US$213.23 million of the total reprogrammed amount on June 30, 2001 (US$161.32 million
World Bank Loan and US$51.91 million in local counterpart funds). An extension was given by the
Bank until October 31, 2001 for the disbursement of US$3.89 million (US$3.3 million from the loan
and US$0.59 million from counterpart funds) in order to complete 59 remaining infrastructure works.
The estimated total amount of US$217.1 million (97%) was disbursed by October 31, 2001, of which
US$164.6 million come from the loan (98%) and US$52.5 million in counterpart funds (96%). The
remainder of the funds is estimated to be US$6.52 million, of which US$4.07 million come from the
loan and US$2.45 million from local counterpart funds (2.5% and 4.5% of the reprogrammed total,
respectively). The total undisbursed amount stems mainly from: (i) a shortening of the original program
-48 -



of infrastructure planned in the province of Rio Negro due to financial difficulties with counterpart
funding; and (ii) the non-approval of several planned activities for the Neuquen province due to changes
in the provincial education policy which stopped the implementation of the EGB3 and polimodal
restructuring. The following is the expenditure by components with respect of the total reprogrammed
amount of US$228.31 million: (i) US$76.59 million for institutional strengthening instead of the
US$78.39 million programmed (97.7%); (ii) US$27.29 for improvement of education quality as
opposed to the projected US$29.01 million (94.1%); and (iii) US$95.6 million for infrastructure as
opposed to the projected US$104.53 million (91.5%).
4. Achievement of objectives. When the secondary education schools were transferred in 1992 from
the NMCE to the provinces, and the new Federal Education Law was implemented in 1993, the
Argentine education sector underwent a decentralization process that implied a new distribution of
functions and responsibilities between the NMCE and the leading educational organizations in the
provinces. The NMCE focused on the quality and efficiency of the education system, as a continuation
of reforms started in the mid-1970s, particularly at the middle level. The main issues to be addressed
during this devolution of responsibilities included: (a) limited administrative, financial, planning, and
management capacity at both the national and provincial levels; (b) low internal efficiency as attested by
high drop-out and repetition rates, low completion rates and low student-teacher ratio; (c) unsatisfactory
educational quality; and (d) inadequate infrastructure.
The new Federal Education Law was created and implemented in order to address the issues
mentioned-above. This Law contains the framework for the reorganization of education management,
including support for decentralization as well as the internal structure of the education system. In this
context, the Secondary Education Decentralization and Improvement Project (PRODYMES I) was
established for the NMCE and six provinces.
Although the results have not been homogenous for all the project sub-components, overall achievement
of objectives was satisfactory, including in certain components very important achievements tied to the
consolidation of a national decentralized education system. During the life of the project, some of the
activities in the original project design were modified due to changes in the directives of provincial
educational policy and the degree of progress in their implementation. One such change occurred with
the institutional strengthening component, relabeled mid-way project implementation as PREGASE.
With these changes, a new way of management was implemented thus guaranteeing future consolidation
of the reform process and the established systems.
The activities under the improving the quality of education component contributed to the implementation
of the education reform in the participating provinces. Finally, the infrastructure works contributed
significantly to the achievement of the objective of meeting the demand for enrollment, reinforcing the
transformation already begun.
4.1. NMCE subproject. The NMCE implemented US$51.8 million of the total loan amount assigned
of US$52.2 million (99.1%). The funds applied mostly to the institutional strengthening component,
and, to a lesser degree, to the updating of infrastructure in several areas of the MEN.
-49-



(a) Institutional strengthening activities. At the national level the project provided assistance for: (i)
the development and strengthening of the national information system and national evaluation system of
education quality; (ii) the strengthening of the administrative and financial capacity at the national and
provincial levels; (iii) the creation and training of officials in the sector; and (iv) systematizing the
processing and analysis of information concerning educational financing.
Through REDFIED, PRODYMES I consolidated statistical information by: (i) establishing a statistical
information system throughout the entire country, connected through national and regional servers (
nodes); (ii) collecting annual data and conducting a national census of schools, students and teachers;
and (iii) providing computer equipment and training to the personnel involved. This activities allowed
nationwide systematization of the information and generated reliable data for further analysis and
research.
SINEC allowed gathering learning assessment information of students from the entire country, and
helped define strategies for improving education quality. To accomplish this: (i) technical teams were
trained; (ii) data banks measuring learning in different disciplines were created; (iii) monthly and yearly
measurements were taken, with the corresponding devolution of the results to the school stakeholders;
(iv) computer equipment and software was provided; and (v) educational research conducted. To
integrate and adequately link the activities developed by SINEC and REDFIED, the NME recently
created the Institute for the Development of Educational Quality (IDECE).
The goal of ECSE was to measure system costs as a necessary tool for education planning. Though
only partly successful, it did bring an important dimension of analysis previously absent from
educational planning.
PROFOR promoted and developed a training program for national and provincial officials aimed at
improving the quality of education management. The activities centered on courses and workshops in
the country and abroad, post-graduate scholarships to national and intemational universities, and travel
study programs, and site visits. The program led to improving the technical levels of the regional
administrations, although not all the beneficiaries returned to the system.
NMCE established SAF to strengthen capacity, and at the organizational level improve administrative
management through reorganizing and strengthening the Administration Subsecretariat of the NMCE. It
conducted diagnostic studies in the areas of general administration, human resources, legal matters, and
contracts of personnel and goods. Of the action plans developed for these areas, only the system of
monitoring of transactions was fully implemented.
Another initiative in the same vein, but directed towards provincial administrations, was implemented
through PREGASE. This program aimed at using the human and financial resources of the education
systems more effectively. At the time of the ICR mission, 23 provinces were included, sixteen of which
showed significant progress to date, and the remaining 7 were at the early stages of implementation.
PREGASE is one of the essential programs for guaranteeing sustainability of NME's strategies until all
objectives have been reached. The specific activities developed under PREGASE include: (i) the
implementation of an integrated information system comprised of a single teachers' roster (legajo uinico
docente); (ii) an organic school operating plant (planta organica funcional); and (iii) tasks, and
reengineering of all the administrative circuits linked to the system. Though all the jurisdictions shared
these activities in common, some provinces developed additional management improvement features on
their own, such as the single student roster in the Provinces of Buenos Aires and Rio Negro.
- 50 -



(b) Educational infrastructure activities. Under this sub-component, the following three rehabilitation
works under the NMCE were executed: (i) refurbishing of the National Teachers Library in the NMCE's
main building (Palacio Sarmiento); (ii) the Paraguay Annex Building; and (iii) the Reform Galp6n. The
investment at the National Teachers Library aimed to modernize installations and bring services
up-to-date with technological advances in library sciences and processes, within the framework of the
original architecture. The rehabilitation works in the Paraguay Annex building, seat of the Federal
Network of Information and Management of Quality Evaluation, included creating space and
furnishings necessary for its proper functioning. The recycling of the old "galpon" (quarters) of the
Sarmiento Palace enabled important space for meetings to be opened to the public. A large and unique
structure, it lent itself to being compartmentalized for multiple and simultaneous uses, such as
presentations, exhibit room, public acts and teacher work days.
4.2. Provincial subprojects. Each of the participating provinces designed an investment project within
the overall framework of PRODYMES I objectives, but relevant to the particular needs of their
respective educational system. At the time of project conception, not all the jurisdictions highlighted the
same type of EGB3 and polimodal issues and/or required the same type of solutions to similar problems.
In this way, each subproject developed a relative heterogeneity.
4.2.1. Province of Buenos Aires. The Province of Buenos Aires executed US$17.5 million out of
US$17.8 million budgeted from the loan (98.75%). Project investments in the province focused on
central management, acquisition of computer equipment, and infrastructure.
(a) Institutional strengthening activities.  The main activities carried out in the institutional
strengthening component addressed the following three issues: (i) improving management; (ii) setting
institutional monitoring of education quality; (iii) and planning the implementation of the new Federal
Education Law. In the first area, the most significant activities included: (i) implementation of a
Management Information System (MIS); (ii) developing a single-teacher roster; and (iii) linking different
administrative processes in the provincial education sector including the schools. The responsibility for
maintaining these activities was assigned to the General Direction of Schools of the Government of the
Province of Buenos Aires.
Regarding the education quality monitoring activities, the project implemented a provincial system of
quality evaluation aimed at measuring learning outcomes. This system, enriched and complemented the
activities under SINEC in the province. The implementation of the new Federal Education Law in the
Province was closely monitored in a sample of 10% of the schools in the province including EGB3 and
polimodal schools, technical-vocational and agrarian schools. The information gathered was key for
policy decision making with respect to the location of new EGB3 and polimodal schools and the
implementation of quality-improvement activities financed under this, and subsequent projects
(PRODYMES III and III-A).
(b) Educational infrastructure investments. PRODYMES I financed a total of 58 civil works in the
province. The majority of the investments were located in the outskirts of the city of Buenos Aires
(belonging to the province) and included rehabilitation and expansion of existing buildings, especially
designed to house students in 8th and 9th grade of the EGB3. Classrooms, laboratories and sanitation
facilities received priority.
4.2.2. Mendoza. The Province of Mendoza executed US$25.6 million out of US$26.2 million budgeted
in the loan (97.9%). Project investments in the province included all the PRODYMES I components,
although fundamentally linked with management, design and curriculum training, support for the
- 51 -



compensatory programs and school infrastructure.
(a) Institutional strengthening activities. The Direction General of Schools of the Provincial
Government of Mendoza was reorganized to allow the design of new procedures and linkages with other
management systems. Personnel involved in this reorganization were trained. Likewise, the project
developed and implemented a human resource system around a single teacher's roster, leading to the
elimination of duplicate teaching tasks. In addition, consolidation and reformulation of provincial norms
in the sector resulted in a computerized legal digest, in accordance with requirements imposed by the
new Federal Education Law. Finally, the activities of strengthening were supported by the acquisition of
computer equipment to enable a better utilization of physical space necessary for implementing the
education reform.
(b) Education quality improvement activities. The project assisted the Provincial System of Quality
Evaluation (already in existence prior to PRODYMIES I) in conducting provincial tests, strengthening
technical capacity for analyzing learning outcomes information and creating remedial instruments, as
well as in publishing and disseminating the results of the national evaluation operations. The project
also provided technical assistance, training and equipment to the Compensatory Programs for Adult
Secondary Education (PROCEMA) and the Improvement of Student Achievement Program for
Secondary Education (PROMEREM). One innovation funded by the loan offered a virtual secondary
education system to students living in remote rural areas with no access to traditional secondary
education. This involved creating six centers (three in the desert of Lavalle and three in the cordillera of
Malargue zone), which have become a part of the recurrent provincial budget starting in 2001. These
interventions called for the creation of ad hoc didactic materials and special curriculum, which were also
incorporated into the current provincial legal pedagogical guidelines.  As for the curriculum
development, the project designed the EGB3 and polimodal curriculum, and participated with provincial
technical staff in training workshops. The province is currently at the stage of implementing the first
year of polimodal instruction. Finally, to support the Improvement of Student Achievement Program, a
provincial pedagogical initiative, the project undertook the task of providing all the province's secondary
schools with computer equipment, didactic material, multimedia resources, science laboratories, and
books.
(c) Education infrastructure improvements. PRODYMES I financed in the province 37 civil works,
located mostly in the province's capital and surrounding suburban areas and in important locations of
the interior, such as San Rafael, Lavalle, Godoy Cruz, Las Heras and Maipii. Of these, 14
corresponded to the substitution of buildings that housed more than one school facility. The remainder
were rehabilitation and/or expansion works, with the investments being concentrated on computer rooms
and sanitation facilities. Noteworthy is the design and construction of three works in the cities of
Lavalle, Medrano and la Paz where "bioclimate" architecture was used. Located in dry climate zones
with wide temperature swings, these conditions meant high energy consumption costs in order to
establish the minimum conditions necessary for comfort and living. The alternative bio-climate
architecture adopted in the civil works significantly reduced the buildings' operation and maintenance
costs, providing climate control without increasing construction costs.
4.2.3. Misiones. The Province of Misiones executed US$15.0 million out of US$15.3 million budgeted
in the loan (98.2%).  The investments centered around improving institutional management,
reformulating polimodal curriculum, teacher training and infrastructure improvement.
-52 -



(a) Institutional strengthening activities. The project established an information and monitoring
systems for the single-teacher's roster and the functional school organic layouts (plantas
organico-funcionales) and provided the required computer equipment and training. It also supported
the development of the Provincial Education Information Network, consisting of a central network and
17 departmental ones, connecting and distributing information between school units and the provincial
education authorities. Computer equipment was also provided to the PME's provincial and district
offices including 15 supervisory offices.
(b) Educational quality improvement activities. The project supported the design of the polimodal
curriculum. The province is currently in the implementation stage of the first year of polimodal
education. The polimodal and technical-vocational tracks have been implemented as planned in eight
secondary schools and is in the process of being extended to 30 secondary establishments of the 112
dependent on the state system. At the same time, it financed innovative projects that took place in 88 of
the existing 112 secondary schools. In-service teacher training and career development activities aimed
at teachers, supervisors and school principals were also provided by the project. The project also
expanded and improved the Open Secondary School, offering secondary education services to adults.
(c) Educational infrastructure activities. The project financed 38 civil works in the province. The aim
of this sub-component was to renovate infrastructure in deficient school buildings, in order to meet the
minimum conditions necessary for providing educational services. The rehabilitations of school building
included bathrooms, electrical installations, common rooms and laboratories.  It also provided
pedagogical spaces for libraries and administrative areas. The project also financed the rehabilitation of
the facilities housing the provincial Ministry of Culture and Education.
4.2.4. Province of Neuqu6n. The Province executed US$19.4 million out of US$21.9 million budgeted
in the loan (88.4%). Project investments concentrated mostly on infrastructure, with some resources
channeled to the development of an information system and curriculum design.
(a) Institutional strengthening activities. The project financed the full implementation of a student
management information system and the partial implementation of a system to control fund transfers.
(b) Educational quality improvement activities. The project financed preparatory activities geared
towards the restructuring of the curriculum of EGB3, polimodal education and technical-vocational
tracks. Due to a political decision from the provincial authorities, this restructuring was stopped in
these levels at a very early stage of their implementation.
(c) Educational infrastructure activities.  The project financed 26 civil works, 12 of which
corresponded to the construction of new secondary schools, while the remaining 14 works were
extensions and/or rehabilitations of existing school buildings. The rehabilitation and extension works
provided the buildings with special computer rooms, multimedia resources centers, and natural science
and technology laboratories, along the lines of the works done in PRODYMES II. The infrastructure
component also provided a new facility for the Provincial Council of Education housing in one single
building all of the dispersed educational administrative offices in the province that were operating in
different rented localities.
4.2.5. Province of Rio Negro. The Province executed US$16.0 million out of US$17.7 million
budgeted in the loan (90.7%). The project investments were concentrated mostly on infrastructure
- 53 -



works, the development and implementation of information systems for educational management and
training teachers in specific areas.
(a) Institutional strengthening activities. The information system developed under the project
included: educational statistics, educational information and documentation, learning assessment
outcomes, provincial school maps, information on school infrastructure and equipment, as well as a
single-student roster. The project also supported the development and implementation of: (i) a
decentralized human resources management information system; (ii) an administrative and teacher salary
payment system; (iii) the updating of the financial accounting system; and (iv) a labor health program.
The province acquired the necessary computer equipment to support the above-mentioned activities at
the regional delegations and school supervisory boards and provided the required training.
(b) Educational quality improvement activities. The project provided secondary schools with learning
resources. This project component was linked to a similar one financed under PRODYMES II, enabling
all secondary schools in the province to be equipped. At the same time, the project financed 65
innovative subprojects benefiting 54 secondary schools. The project also supported the development of
training activities oriented to specific curricular areas (language, mathematics, curriculum planning,
technology) of the EGB3. The province started to work on the curricular restructuring of EGB3 and the
polimodal cycles.
(c) Educational infrastructure activities. The project financed 15 civil works in the province, the
majority of which were construction of secondary schools. In addition, the project also rehabilitated
and/or expanded 54 school facilities, investing US$1.5 million in order to provide them with multimedia
resource centers and computer rooms.
4.2.6. Province of Santa Fe. The Province executed US$16.0 million out of US$17.6 million budgeted
in the loan (90.5%). The project investments focused mainly on school infrastructure works, and
activities tied to organizational management, as well as the curricular design and training in the context
of the educational reform.
(a) Institutional strengthening activities. This component financed interventions concerning planning
procedures at the school and at the regional and provincial levels. To carry these activities, the project
supported training and production of materials, especially for the supervisors.  These activities
contributed to the establishment of the school Institutional Education Projects (PEIs).  These
investments were centered on the largest regions of the province, the cities of Santa Fe and Rosario, and
were carried out under the framework of PREGASE.
(b) Education quality improvement activities. The project supported the curricular restructuring of
EGB3 and the polimodal cycles. Under this component, the project financed training activities including
the training of 44% of the secondary education science teachers.
(c) Educational infrastructure activities. The project financed 36 civil works, of which 28 correspond
to rehabilitation and/or extensions of existing school buildings, and the remaining 8 to construction of
new secondary schools. The rehabilitations and/or extensions recuperated spaces earmarked for
teaching as well as for locations of support and services. In addition, the project also financed 9
rehabilitation and/or extensions works for regional headquarters for the administration of the
decentralized educational system.
- 54-



5. Main factors affecting implementation and results. The rhythm of implementation of activities,
and in some cases the direction of these, was altered by frequent changes in policy in the management of
the jurisdictions' educational governing body. With these changes came personnel changes in the
provincial implementing units with the resultant delays of bringing the new personnel up-to-speed. At
the same time, the normal development of the implementation of the project was affected by financial
problems in collecting counterpart funds from many of the jurisdictions at different stages of the project
cycle. Experience has shown that the dynamic of execution tends to produce lags in the implementation
times estimated for achieving activities and in political and/or bureaucratic decision making times, with
subsequent loss of an integrated vision of the project and its potential for transformations.
During implementation, the jurisdictions had difficulty learning how to accommodate the different
demands and expectations arising from the project implementation, the provincial and national politics,
the economic constraints, the school and the teachers' union, often leading to differences between what
was programmed and reality. The new ways of working imposed by the provincial implementation units
were often negatively affected by the pre-existing way of organizing and of managing loyalties, which
led, in some situations, to breakdowns in the new institutional models of organization that the project
was attempting to establish. At the same time, the organization of the project itself was often affected
by the overwhelming dimensions of the bureaucratic-administrative center operating in the jurisdictions
that blocked the timely implementation of institutional strengthening activities.
Finally, problems comprehending and/or accepting "Bank procedures" involved in implementing
projects lead to blocks and unnecessary delays. This was due to the fact, in some cases, that the
personnel involved were continuously rotated, and had to be constantly trained and, in other cases, to the
resistance on the part of the provinces to accept the supremacy of the established norms of the loan
agreement over provincial legislation.
6. Lessons Learned. The following nine lessons have been identified:
(a) Experience has demonstrated that the degree of detail and desaggregation used for designing the
costing of the different activities included in the original project, and later incorporated into the loan
document (PAD), limited its usefulness at implementation. If the fixed objectives had to be maintained
rigorously, reality revealed the need to have a flexible and adaptable plan to facilitate implementation.
These obstacles, were, however, satisfactorily addressed over the life of the project;
(b) Reinforce the importance of project coordination by having an integrated and global view of the
activities being implemented and the necessary time and requirements to make progress. Coordination
implies fluid dialogue with the national and provincial political authorities and depends on the delegation
of power in order for timely and effective decision making. This situation became particularly evident in
provincial management organizations, where management changed frequently, and did not have an
appropriate sense of the promptness required for project implementation;
(c) Provide workshops for updating norms and procedures to personnel in the provincial implementing
units especially in Bank procurement guidelines;
(d) Reinforce the concept that project execution falls along the existing institutional structures to avoid
the need for "parallel organizations" that disappear at project completion;.
(e) Promote the professional profiles of project technicians so that they can fully assume their roles as
transformers, implementers, and controllers in the project activities under their responsibility;
- 55 -



(f) Reinforce the need for an early monitoring system to anticipate when activities become out of line
with each other and ensure a more harmonious implementation and achievement of project objectives.
Likewise, strengthen common strategies between the provinces and the NMCE by establishing a
monitoring and supervision system for activities to ensure an appropriate and reliable evaluation at the
end of the project;
(g) Organize periodic meetings and technical seminars between the different jurisdictions and the
provincial project coordinating units in order to share and compare experiences and methodologies;
(h) Strengthen administrative mechanisms, generating alternatives so that difficult bureaucratic
processes negatively affecting implementation of the projects can be appropriately and timely addressed;
and
(i) Gradually incorporate the necessary financing to the provincial and state budgets to ensure
financial sustainability of project activities at the closing of the project.
- 56 -



