Page  1
December 21, 1995
Mr. Domingo F. Cavallo
Minister of Economy and
  Public Works and Services
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan 3794-AR
(Decentralization and Improvement of
Secondary Education Project)
Amendment
Dear Minister Cavallo:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated March 24, 1995, between Ar-entine 
Republic and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
and to the request from the Secretary of Educational Planning and Evaluation, 
through the letter dated November 21, 1995 to the Bank, for an amendment to such 
Loan Agreement.  The requested amendment would, as 'in the case of the recently 
negotiated draft Loan Agreement for the Decentralization and Improvement of 
Secondan7 Education and Polymodal Education Development Project, enable the 
Gove=ent to use, with the Bank's agreement, funds from the Loan (which may not be 
used by the Participating Provinces) for Subprojects to be carried out by other 
Provinces or for additional activities under Part A of the Project.
We agree with such request and, therefore, propose to ainend the Loan 
Acreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended as follows:
(a)
Paragrqphs (c), (g) and (h) are amended to read:
"(c) 'Participating Province' means any of the Provinces of 
Cordoba, La Pampa, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro and Santa 
Fd (provided it has signed a subsidiary Loan Agreement), or any 
Additional Participating Province,"
"(g) 'Project Implementation Targets' means the targets set 
forth in Annex A to the letter of even date with this Agreement 
from the Borrower to the Bank, and the targets referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) (iv) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;"
"(h) 'Projecct Impact Indicators' means the impact indicators 
set  forth  in Annex B to the letter of even date with this 
Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank, and the indicators 
referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (lv) of Schedule I to this 
Agreement;"
(b)
New paragraphs (in) and (n) are added to read:
"(m) 'Additional Participating Province' means any, Province, 
acceptable to the Bank, other than a Participating Province, 
which is selected by the Borrower to carry out a Subproject 
under Part B of the Project, if any of the events referred to 
in Section 3.11 of this Agreement shall occur;"
"(n)     'Subloan' means a loan to be made under a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement."
2.
A new Section 3.11 is added to read:
'Section 3.11. If (a) a Participating Province (other than an 
Additional Participating Province) shall not enter into a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement within eight months from the 
Effective Date; (b) a Participating Province (other than an 
Additional Participating Province) shall enter into a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing with the agreement of the 
Bank, for a Subloan in an amount lower than the original 
Page  2
amount approved bv the Bank; or (c) after 30 months from the 
date of the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between 
the Borrower and a Participating Province other than an 
Additional Participating Province. an amount equivalent to 
more than 80% of the corresponding Subloan amount shall 
remain unwithdrawn by such Participating Province, the 
Borrower mav propose to the Bank a reallocation of the 
corresponding amount of the Loan that would have been used to 
finance-. (i) the Subloan under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
referred to in (a) above; (ii) the remaining portion of the 
original amount approved for the Subloan under the Subsidiarv 
Loan Agreement referred to in (b) above; or (iii) the unvath 
drawn amount of the Subloan referred to in (c) above, as the 
case mav be, either for purposes of financing Subprojects to 
be carried out by Additional Participating Provinces or 
additional activities under Part A of the Project."
3.
In Schedule 1, paragraph 3(b) is amended to read:
"(b) expenditures by anv of the Participating Provinces, 
except those referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, unless the Bank shall have received evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that: (i) the Subsidiarv Loan 
Agreement between the Borrower and such Participating 
Province has become effective; (ii) the PPCU in such Province 
has been established; (iii) all action, satisfactory to the 
Bank, has been taken by such Participating Province in order 
to permit the procurement of goods, works and consultants' 
services to be financed under the Loan to beundertaken in 
accordance with the provisions set for-th or referred to in 
this Agreement; and (iv) in the case of an Additional 
Participating, Province, the Subproject for such Province is 
satisfactory to the Bank, and implementation targets for such 
Subproject and indicators of impact of such Subproject on the 
secondary education system of such Province, satisfactory to 
the Bank, have been established."
4.
In Schedule 6, paragrqphs 2 (c) and 3 are amended to read:
"(c) substantially achieve, on a progressive basis acceptable 
to the Bank, the targets set forth or referred to in Annex B 
of the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the 
Bank for the Project Impact Indicators, or, as the case may 
be, the Impact indicators referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (iv) 
of Schedule I to this Agreement, in respect of such 
Participating Province;"
"3.
Each Participating Province shall make available, 
promptly as needed in each year during the execution of its 
Subproject, the counterpart flmds required for the efficient 
execution of its Subproject."
If you agree with the foregoing amendment, please sign and date the two 
copies of this letter in the space provided below, and return one to us.  This 
wnendment will become effective upon receipt by the Bank of one copy of this 
letter duly countersigned by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Homi Kharas
Acting Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  3
AGREED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Dr. Domingo F. Cavallo
Authorized Representative
Date: February 12, 1996
