Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3794 AR
Loan Agreement
(Decentralization and Improvement of
Secondary Education Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 24, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3794 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1995, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
Page  2
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"NMCE" means Ministerio Nacional de Cultura y Educacion, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Culture and Education;
(b)
"NPCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
 
(c)
"Participating Province" means any of the following Provinces: Cordoba, 
La Pampa, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro and Santa Fe;
(d)
"PME" means any of the Ministries of Education of a Participating 
Province;
(e)
"PPCU" means any of the units referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 
6 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Consultative Council" means the council referred to in Section 
3.06 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Implementation Targets" means the targets set forth in Annex A 
to the letter of even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(h)
"Project Impact Indicators" means the impact indicators set forth in 
Annex B to the letter of even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(i)
"Province" means any of the Borrower's provinces; 
 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subproject" means any of the projects to be carried out by a 
Participating Province under Part B of the Project; and
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and ninety million 
dollars ($190,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
Page  3
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
shall, through the NMCE, carry out Part A of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Part of the Project;
(b)
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, shall cause the Participating 
Provinces to carry out their respective Subprojects under Part B of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and educational practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
Page  4
or appropriate to enable the Participating Provinces to carry out their respective 
Subprojects, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with the carrying out of Part B of the Project by the Participating 
Provinces; and
(c)
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
shall make available, promptly as needed in each year during the execution of Part A 
of the Project, as counterpart funds for such Part A, the following minimum amounts: 
$4,200,000 equivalent, in 1995; $1,900,000 equivalent, in 1996; $1,500,000 equivalent, 
in 1997; $1,300,000 equivalent, in 1998; and $1,200,000 equivalent, in 1999.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Participating Province in respect of such Participating Province's Subproject.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with each 
Participating Province (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) whereby the Borrower shall 
relend to such Participating Province the proceeds of the Loan allocated to finance 
the Subproject to be carried out by such Participating Province, such Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to have terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to 
enforce any of such agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project:
(a)
maintain a unit, within NMCE, in charge of the coordination of the 
overall execution of the Project (the NPCU), with staff, responsibilities and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required by the NPCU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely manner.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, maintain 
a consultative council (the Project Consultative Council) composed by the Borrower's 
Minister of Culture and Education, the NMCE's Secretary of Educational Programming and 
Evaluation and the Ministers of Education of the Participating Provinces for the 
purposes of providing policy and strategy guidance with respect to the Project, 
monitoring the compliance with the Project Implementation Targets and resolving any 
implementation or organization problems that may threaten the execution of the Project 
as set forth or referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the action plan referred to in 
paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in accordance with the terms thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31, 1995, 
the studies under Part A.5 of the Project in respect of the Ministries of Education of 
selected Provinces other than the Participating Provinces.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall substantially achieve or cause to be 
substantially achieved, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the Project Implementation 
Targets.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through the NPCU, shall, not later than March 31 of 
each year during Project implementation, furnish to the Bank a report of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request: (a) on the progress in the 
Project implementation during the immediately preceding calendar year; (b) containing 
an analysis of the compliance with the Project Implementation Targets and the progress 
in the achievement of the targets set forth for the Project Impact Indicators during 
Page  5
such year; and (c) containing an action plan for the implementation of the Project 
during the year of presentation of such report.
Section 3.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, jointly with the Participating Provinces, shall:
(a)
during the month of March in each year of Project implementation, 
undertake a review with the Bank of: (i) the progress of the Project during the next 
preceding year; (ii) the proposed work plan and budget for the Project during the year 
of such review; and (iii) the adjustments to be made to the Project implementation 
schedule during the year of such review; and
(b)
during the thirtieth month after the Effective Date, undertake a review 
with the Bank of the progress in the execution of the Project and the attainment of 
its objectives, with special emphasis on the compliance with the Project 
Implementation Targets and the progress in the achievement of the targets set forth 
for the Project Impact Indicators. As part of such review, the Bank may require that 
the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in 
Project implementation. In the event that the Bank requires the preparation of such 
action plan, the Borrower shall furnish it to the Bank not later than 90 days after 
the conclusion of such review, and shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, such 
action plan in accordance with the terms thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures of NMCE in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, said auditors to be employed not later than December 31 of 
the fiscal year for which the audit is conducted;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  6
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Participating Province to 
maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of such Participating 
Province in respect of its Subproject.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each Participating Province to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, said auditors to be 
employed not later than December 31 of the fiscal year for which 
the audit is conducted;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the Participating Provinces shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Participating Province will be able to perform its obligations under a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
It is understood that, if any of the events referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) above 
shall occur, the Bank may limit the suspension of the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred by the Participating 
Province in question.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the NPCU has been legally established;
 
(b)
at least two Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been entered into between 
the Borrower and at least two Participating Provinces;
(c)
the PPCUs in the Participating Provinces referred to in paragraph (b) 
above have been legally established; 
(d)
the Project Consultative Council has been established by a Resolution of 
the Borrower's Minister of Culture and Education; and
(e)
all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken in order to permit 
the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services to be financed under the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
Page  7
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the NPCU has been legally established; 
 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in paragraph (b) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed 
and delivered on behalf of, the respective parties thereto and are legally binding 
upon such parties in accordance with their terms;
(c)
that the PPCUs referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement and the Project Consultative Council have been legally established; and
(d)
that the action referred to in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement has been taken.
Section 6.03. The date June 22, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
  y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Telex:
(390) 21-952
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Felipe Cavallo
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Civil works
  27,000,000
60%
 
(2)
Goods
  40,000,000
80%
 
(3)
Consultants'
services for:
(a)
technical
  57,000,000
90%
assistance,
training,
studies and
auditing
(b)
NPCU and PPCUs   3,500,000
60%
 
(4)
School-based grants   12,000,000
100%
and scholarships
(5)
Incremental
     2,000,000
50%
recurrent salaries
(6)
Operating costs
    12,000,000
70%
 
(7)
Project implementa-   18,500,000
60%
tion costs
(8)
Unallocated
    18,000,000
 
TOTAL     190,000,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "school-based grants" means grants for projects proposed by 
schools to be financed on a competitive basis;
(b)
the term "incremental recurrent salaries" means salaries, approved by the 
Bank, of new permanent personnel employed as a result of the execution of Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project and of other relevant educational activities under the Project;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means expenditures for building and equipment 
maintenance, insurance, rent, utilities, publications, office materials and other 
expenditures related to the operation of the facilities under the Project; and
(d)
the term "Project implementation costs" means expenditures for travel and 
per diems related to training activities and Project coordination, and for 
expenditures incurred by the NPCU and the PPCUs with office materials, rents, 
Page  9
utilities, publications, advertising and bidding procedures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$13,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 15, 1994;
(b)
expenditures by any of the Participating Provinces, except those referred 
to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, unless the Bank shall have received: (i) a 
certified copy of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and 
such Participating Province; (ii) evidence that the PPCU in such Participating 
Province has been legally established; (iii) an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to 
the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that: (A) such Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the respective parties thereto and is legally binding upon such parties in 
accordance with its terms; and (B) such PPCU has been legally established;
(c)
expenditures for civil works under Part A of the Project, unless the Bank 
has been furnished with an action plan under Part A.5 of the Project in respect of 
NMCE satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)
expenditures for civil works under any Subproject, unless the Bank has 
been furnished with an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, under Part B(a)(i) of 
the Project in respect of the Participating Province carrying out such Subproject.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under:
(a)
contracts for informatics goods and communications equipment not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; 
(b)
contracts for other goods not exceeding $250,000 equivalent each (other 
than the first contract to be awarded by the Borrower and each Participating Province 
pursuant to Part C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement during each of 
the first three years of Project implementation);
(c)
contracts for works not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent each (other than 
the first contract to be awarded by the Borrower and each Participating Province 
pursuant to Part C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement during each of 
the first three years of Project implementation);
(d)
contracts for consulting firms' services costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each;
(e)
contracts for individual consultants' services costing less than $20,000 
equivalent each; and
(f)
Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 hereof, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase student learning in the 
Participating Provinces through strengthening of the Participating Provinces' and the 
Borrower's institutional capacity in the secondary education subsector under a 
decentralized framework, improvements in the quality and efficiency of secondary 
education, and increase and/or improvement of the Participating Provinces' school 
facilities to serve better the secondary school-aged population.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Establishment and operation of a national management information system to 
provide information on: (a) education statistics; (b) educational infrastructure; (c) 
Page  10
socio-demographic trends; (d) number and profiles of NMCE's human resources by level 
and location; (e) budgeting and accounting; (f) educational facilities; and (g) 
educational documentation and research.
2.
Establishment and operation of a national student assessment system to: (a) 
provide information and monitor student academic achievement nationwide; (b) define 
policies and strategies to improve educational quality; (c) process, create and 
disseminate information on student achievement; (d) assist the Provinces in 
establishing their own student academic achievement; and (e) compile academic 
achievement information provided by the Provinces.
3.
Strengthening of NMCE's management, financial and administrative capacity by 
improving: (a) administrative and financial accounting systems; (b) procurement and 
didactic and administrative material distribution procedures; (c) management and 
maintenance of physical facilities; and (d) management of personnel.
4.
A postgraduate training program within the territory of the Borrower and a 
training stage program abroad for about 200 high-level professionals in: (a) education 
policy and management; (b) economics of education and financing; (c) educational 
assessment; and (d) curriculum improvement and innovation.
5.
Action plans to overcome inefficiencies in the use of human and physical 
resources by the NMCE and the Ministries of Education of certain Provinces (other than 
the Participating Provinces), including, inter alia, a review of the quality and 
timeliness of existing personnel data bases (and their correspondence with payroll 
data bases), an assessment of procedures and practices in the personnel departments of 
the NMCE and such Ministries, a sample survey of staffing requirements and salary 
schedules by function, and an analysis of such Ministries' policies and practices with 
regard to personnel compensation, incentives and attendance.
6.
Carrying out of an inventory of NMCE's facilities and preparation and 
implementation of a rehabilitation and maintenance plan for such facilities.
Part B:
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of all or some of the following 
components:
(a)
institutional strengthening programs for the PMEs, including development 
of: (i) action plans to overcome inefficiencies in the use of human and physical 
resources by the PMEs, including, inter alia, a review of the quality and timeliness 
of existing personnel data bases (and their correspondence with payroll data bases), 
an assessment of procedures and practices in the personnel departments of the PMEs, a 
sample survey of staffing requirements and salary schedules by function, and an 
analysis of the PMEs' policies and practices with regard to personnel  compensation, 
incentives and attendance; (ii) administrative organizations with efficient resources 
and procedures; (iii) educational and financial planning capacity; (iv) a human 
resource policy; (v) management information systems; and (vi) student assessment 
systems;
(b)
activities to improve the quality of secondary education, including 
development of curriculum, training of human resources, provision of textbooks and 
other didactic materials, development of information workshops, and school-based grant 
programs; and
(c)
construction, expansion or rehabilitation of secondary education schools, 
and PMEs' regional or local administrative facilities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2000
Page  11
through   November 15, 2009 
9,500,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the 
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Page  12
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of: (i) goods and works in accordance with this Part 
A; and (ii) goods in accordance with Part C.1 of this Section, the Borrower shall use 
or cause to be used the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Bank.
2.
Textbooks shall be procured under a two-step procedure, satisfactory to the 
Bank, consisting, first, of presentation of only technical proposals and, after review 
of their technical merits and compliance with performance specifications, submission 
and evaluation of priced bids, all in accordance with paragraph 1 above.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Informatics goods (computers, peripheral equipment and computer software) and 
communications equipment (fax and photocopying machines) estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount of 
$15,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
obtained from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, which have 
established maintenance services in Argentina, and in accordance with procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 
2.56 thereof).
2.
(a)
Vehicles, furniture, training materials, textbooks and other didactic 
materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract or bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $19,500,000; and (b) works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $23,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
3.
Goods and works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 and $300,000 or 
less per contract, respectively, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,600,000 
in the case of goods (informatics goods and communications equipment: up to $5,600,000 
equivalent; and vehicles, furniture, training materials and books, and didactic 
materials and equipment: up to $15,000,000 equivalent), and $10,500,000 in the case of 
works, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with Part C.2 hereof, the 
Borrower shall use or cause to be used the standard bidding documents transmitted by 
the Borrower to the Bank through the letter dated March 6, 1995.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to Parts A and C.1 
hereof, each contract for works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, and the first contracts to be awarded by the Borrower and each 
Page  13
Participating Province pursuant to Part C.2 (a) and (b) hereof, respectively, during 
each of the first three years of Project implementation, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and the Participating Provinces in the carrying 
out of their respective components of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause 
the Participating Provinces to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower 
shall employ or cause the Participating Provinces to employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use or 
cause to be used other standard forms agreed with the Bank. For all the other 
assignments, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used the standard letter of 
invitation and contract transmitted to the Bank by the Borrower through the letter 
dated March 6, 1995.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value
to $20,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
Page  14
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
(a)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for an 
eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 
shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account. The Bank may from time to time, 
by notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding 
sentence.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures during 
the four months following the date of each such request, which amount shall not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Bank shall have determined to be so required.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  15
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following terms and conditions:
1.
Subloans shall be made under the same terms and conditions of the Loan with 
respect to repayment period, interest rate, commitment charge and currency provisions.
2.
The Participating Province shall:
 
(a)
comply with the provisions of Sections 3.01 (b), 3.02, 3.03 and 4.02 of 
the Loan Agreement in respect of its Subproject;
(b)
during the execution of its Subproject, maintain a unit, within PME, in 
charge of the coordination of the execution of the Subproject (the PPCU), with staff, 
responsibilities, budget and functions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
(c)
substantially achieve, on a progressive basis acceptable to the Bank, the 
targets set forth or referred to in Annex B of the letter of even date herewith from 
the Borrower to the Bank for the Project Impact Indicators in respect of such 
Participating Province;
(d)
substantially achieve, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the components 
of the Project Implementation Targets applicable to such Participating Province;
(e)
provide all the assistance required by the Borrower for the purposes of 
compliance with Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement; and
(f)
participate, jointly with the Borrower, in the reviews referred to in 
Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement.
3.
Each Participating Province shall make available, promptly as needed in each 
year during the execution of the Subprojects, as counterpart funds for the 
Subprojects, the following minimum amounts:
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
$ million
Cordoba
2.7
1.7
1.3
1.0
1.0
La Pampa
1.7
2.0
1.4
0.6
0.5
Page  16
Mendoza
4.8
5.0
2.7
2.4
1.8
Misiones
1.5
1.9
2.0
1.1
0.8
Neuquen
2.3
4.8
2.7
1.0
0.9
Rio Negro
1.4
2.2
2.5
2.6
2.0
Santa Fe
1.9
3.5
1.6
0.6
0.6
