Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3878 BUR
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Development of the National Statistical System Project) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 1, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3878 BUR 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 2004, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Borrower has prepared a 
Schéma directeur de la Statistique
,
dated 
June 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance 
the national statistical system (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “
Arrêté portant émission d’avis sur la faisabilité environnementale de la 
construction du nouveau siège de l’INSD à Ouaga 2000” 
or
“
Arrêté
”
means the 
Borrower’s decree No. 03-037 MECV/CAB of October 28, 2003, which sets out 
Page  3
-
2
-
environmental protection measures to be applied for implementation of Part D.1 of the 
Project, and referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;   
(b) 
“CFAF” means 
Franc de la
 
Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the 
currency of the Borrower;   
(c) 
“CNCS” means 
“Conseil  national de la coordination statistique
”, the 
Borrower’s specialized authorized executive body responsible for the inter-agency 
coordination, quality and control of statistical activity in the Borrower’s territory, 
established and operating pursuant to Law/Decree No. 97-371/PRES/PM/MEF of 1997 
and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(d) 
“Comité de pilotage
”
means the special committee to be set up within 
the CNCS to monitor and evaluate the Project, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;  
(e) “INSD” 
means
“Institut national de la statistique et de la démographie
”, 
the Borrower’s national institute of statistics and demography, the agency responsible for 
the implementation of the Project, operating under the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Development, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;   
 
(f) 
“Faso Baara” means the autonomous procurement agency referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;  
(g) 
“Faso Baara Agency Agreement” or “Agency Agreement” means the 
agreement to be signed between the Borrower and Faso Baara pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(j) “
Loi Statistique
”, means the “Statistical Law”, the primary legal 
reference for statistical systems and operations as set in Law No. 0040/ADP of 
November 8, 1996; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Manual of Procedures” means the manual to be adopted pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement for the implementation of all the 
components of the Project, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,
 and 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and containing, inter alia, 
disbursement and procurement arrangements, work plans, training plans, the monitoring 
and performance indicators 
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement
,
and procedures to 
be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Manual of Procedures; 
(l) 
“Project Account” means the project account referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(m) 
 “Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the unit to be established 
by the Borrower within INSD, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
(n) 
“Project Preparation Advance”  means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on February 4, 2004, and on behalf of the Borrower on  
February 12, 2004;  
(o) 
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or at the end of 
subsequent Project Years; 
(p)  
“
Schéma directeur de la statistique
”
or
“SDS” means the statistical 
master plan prepared by the Borrower in June 2003, and referred to in Preamble 2 of this 
Agreement; and 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,700,000). 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in CFAF in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2014 and ending October 1, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, fiscal, statistical and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.   
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain in FCFA, until the completion of the Project, a Project 
Account, in the Borrower’s Treasury, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;  
(b) 
promptly thereafter make an initial deposit into the Project Account in an  
amount equivalent to FCFA 60,000,000 to finance the Borrower’s initial contributions to 
the expenditures under the Project;   
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
thereafter, at quarterly intervals, deposit into the Project Account such 
amounts as are estimated to be required for the ensuing three-month period and as shall 
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(d) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used only to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution to the expenditures under the Project which are not financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit
.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objective of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
Page  9
-
8
-
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains an opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the annual statements and financial expenditures 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related transactions. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
that the Borrower or Faso Baara shall have failed to comply with the 
provisions of the Agency Agreement in such manner as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been duly opened, and the amount of the initial 
advance deposited therein in accordance with Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;  
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting 
system acceptable to the Association and has finalized the Manual of Procedures; 
(c) 
the Borrower has entered into an Agency Agreement with Faso Baara 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and 
(d) 
the Borrower has appointed an external auditing firm acceptable to the 
Association and in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be the earlier. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministère des Finances et du Budget 
03 B.P. 7008  
 
Ouagadougou 03 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex 
  Facsimile: 
 
SEGEGOUV 
  
 
5555 
 
 
(226) 31 27 15 
 
(226) 31 54 09 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
 
 (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By 
 
 /s/ 
Tertius 
Zongo   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
/s/ 
Nils 
Tcheyan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
650,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
and
 
80% of local expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,050,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
80%
of local 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
and audits 
 
(a)  consulting firms 
600,000 
80% 
 
(b)  individual consultants 
1,600,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 80% 
of local expenditures 
 
(4) 
Training and workshops 
1,550,000 
100% 
 
(5) Operating 
costs 
900,000 
80% 
 
(6) 
Refunding of Project 
 
         250,000 
 
Amount due 
Preparation 
Advance 
    pursuant 
to 
 
 
Section 2.02 (c)  
(7) Unallocated 
 
100,000
________ 
 
TOTAL  
6,700,000 
 
========= 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower,  provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries, travel 
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and maintenance; 
office rental and maintenance, materials and supplies; utilities and communications 
expenses; and bank charges; but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants
.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and (e) training and operating costs; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to build a sustainable statistical system which 
would efficiently and effectively collect, process and disseminate accurate, timely, 
coherent and reliable statistical data concerning the economy and social conditions of the 
Borrower, through: (i) the improvement of the statistical policy and the regulatory and 
institutional framework; (ii) the establishment of a system for human resource 
development for the statistical system; (iii) the development of statistical data and 
dissemination; and (iv) the development of statistical infrastructure. 
 The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Organizational Development
1. 
Strengthening of the legal framework, through: (i) establishing a mechanism to 
monitor the enforcement of the 
Loi Statistique
 with a view to have the statistical 
production and dissemination in line with the norms and standards defined by law; and 
(ii) carrying out a study to formulate a strategy to pursue legal reform in the areas 
encompassing the legal status of INSD, INSD’s financial autonomy, the organization and 
operations of CNCS, and the standardization of official statistics production and 
dissemination. 
2. 
Strengthening of the institutional framework, through increased guidance for 
statistical operations and inter-agency cooperation with a view to: (i) creating a 
decentralized statistical system; (ii) redefining the role of CNCS; and (iii) setting up the 
Comité de pilotage
 to monitor regularly and evaluate the Project progress and results. 
Part B
:
Human Resources Development
1. 
Strengthening of human resource management for the statistical system, through: 
(i) developing a strategy for human resource management; (ii) establishing job profiles; 
and (iii) defining and setting up a system of internal promotion and merit based 
remuneration. 
2. 
Training of staff who produce statistics in the areas of statistical planning, 
statistical methods, data analysis, data management and information technology through: 
(i) the award of scholarships, (ii) training, (iii) organization of study trips to renowned 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
statistical institutions, (iv) staff exchange, and (v) workshops to collect, process and 
analyze data. 
3. 
Training of statistical users, through: (i) setting up a panel of target users and 
developing awareness programs to the use of statistics; (ii) organizing workshops to 
explain the results and use of published statistical indicators; and (iii) training of staff in 
line ministries in data analysis. 
Part C
:
Data Development
1. 
Strengthening the production of timely, reliable and internationally accepted 
methodologies in the following sectors: (i) national accounts statistics; (ii) poverty and 
living conditions monitoring statistics, including the development of social and poverty 
monitoring indicators; (iii) general census, development of a data base for demographic 
statistics and collection of administrative data on vital statistics; (iv) improvement of data 
collection, technology and infrastructure for health statistics; (v) education statistics; (vi) 
agricultural statistics; (vii) labor market statistics; and (viii) transportation statistics.  
2. 
Strengthening the information technology infrastructure and development of a 
comprehensive and long-term strategy for the statistical system with a view to bringing 
statistical operations and dissemination in line with international standards. 
Part D
:
Infrastructure and equipment
1. 
Construction of a new building for INSD headquarters, including construction 
costs and civil engineering work. 
2. 
Acquisition of information technology equipment, vehicles, office furniture and 
supplies, and any other equipment essential to carry out Project activities.  
Part E
:
Project Management
Strengthening of the PIU, especially in the areas of procurement and financial 
management, to enable it to properly coordinate and promote Project activities, and carry 
out monitoring and evaluation studies, project reviews and audits, including the 
acquisition of office furniture and equipment and accounting software. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2009. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 and $100,000 or more, respectively, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits and other standard services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services as agreed in the procurement plan, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services under Parts A, B, C and E for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Section I
.
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU under INSD throughout Project 
implementation, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and with human, 
financial and technical resources adequate to enable it to effectively coordinate and 
manage the Project.  The composition of the PIU shall include, inter alia: (i) one Project 
coordinator; (ii) one procurement specialist; (iii) one financial management specialist; 
and (iv) one accountant.   
The PIU shall be responsible for the day-to-day management, for managing, 
reporting and auditing activities and ensuring compliance with the procurement, 
disbursement and financial management policies and procedures. The PIU shall conduct 
monitoring and evaluation activities through quarterly Financial Management Reports 
and annual technical audits, mid-term reviews, and impact studies and other reports on an 
annual basis. 
2. 
INSD will be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project.  It will 
work in close collaboration with CNCS, which is chaired by the Minister of the Economy 
and Development, and is composed of representatives of all the ministries and 
organizations involved in the production and use of statistics.      
3. A 
Comité de pilotage
 to be set up at CNCS will supervise and coordinate the 
monitoring and evaluation activities, and evaluate the Project progress and results. 
Section II
.
Implementation Arrangements
4. 
The Borrower, through INSD: (i) shall take all action required to ensure that the 
Manual of Procedures is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, (ii)  except  as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Manual of Procedures 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
5. Procurement 
of 
Works
The Borrower shall maintain at all times during the implementation of Part D.1 
of the Project, the Faso Baara Agency Agreement, including the obligation of Faso Baara 
to: (i) carry out procurement for works and consulting services under Part D.1 of the 
Project in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (ii) monitor, supervise and 
evaluate Part D.1 of the Project; (iii) have any contractor implement the mitigation 
measures under the Borrower’s 
Arrêté
 regarding the impact of the INSD building 
construction on the environment; and (iv) financial management and disbursement in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. No modifications to the Faso Baara 
Agency Agreement shall be made without the Association’s prior approval. 
6. Annual 
Work 
Program
The Borrower, through INSD, shall: (i) prepare and submit for the Association’s 
comments and approval, not later than October 1 of each Fiscal Year, a draft annual work 
program for the following Fiscal Year including, 
inter alia
,
a
detailed description of 
planned activities for procurement of works, goods and technical services and selection 
and employment of consultants’ services and sources and uses of funds; and (ii) adopt 
and carry out the annual work program in the form and substance approved by the 
Association. 
7. 
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof. 
(b) 
Progress Reports and Reviews
(i) 
The Borrower shall prepare under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association, semiannually 
beginning on or about the date six (6) months after the Effective Date, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to Paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date. 
 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
(ii) 
The Borrower shall review, jointly with the Association, the 
reports referred to in Paragraph (b) (i) of this Section, on or about the 
date one month after the submission of said reports, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said reports and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 (c) 
Mid-Term 
Review
(i) 
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly the Association, on or about 
the date thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, a comprehensive mid-
term review aimed at: (A) documenting progress toward Project 
objectives; (B) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; and (C) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, 
targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project as of the date of the review.  
 
(ii) 
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) of this Section, furnish to the Association a 
mid-term report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, 
including an evaluation of the progress achieved in Project 
implementation. 
(iii) 
Promptly after completing the mid-term review, the Borrower 
shall take all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising 
out of said review, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association’s 
comments thereon. 
 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
,
and
 to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c)
 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
400,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of this Annex, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
Outcome Indicators 
1. 
Rate of user satisfaction increases (accessibility, timeliness, periodicity) 
-National accounts 
-Social statistics 
2.  Targeted statistical products are easily accessible in relevant media with metadata 
and interpretation of findings, etc. 
3.  Reduction in time lag between data collection and dissemination for targeted 
statistical products 
4. 
Targeted statistical products are released within the time limits and with frequency 
meeting GDDS requirements 
Results Indicators for Each Component 
1.1 Statistical legislation and regulations provided for adequate institutional and 
regulatory framework and efficient and coordinated statistical operations are 
respected 
1.2 Mechanisms for effective inter-agency coordination are established and operational 
and duplication of data collection among agencies is eliminated at national and 
regional level 
1.3 Mechanisms for effective dialogue between the data users and producers are 
operational 
2.1 Ratio of statisticians to non-statisticians 
2.2 Number of training days per working days 
2.3 Staff turnover ratio 
3.1 Internationally accepted standards and methodologies are used in data production 
(GDDS recommendations 
 
-Macroeconomic statistics   
 
-Social statistics 
3.2 Sound and well-accepted statistical techniques are used for data collection, 
compilation, and validation 
 
-Macroeconomic statistics   
 
-Social statistics 
4.1  % of INSD staff who feels physical working environment has improved 
4.2 Ratio of computers less than 3 years old to technical staff 
4.3 Ratio of workstations connected to network to workstations (less than 3 years old) 
5.1 New internal regulation for administrative and financial management adopted at 
INSD 
5.2 Salary scales and TORs for positions adopted at INSD 
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
Outcome Indicators 
5.3 Adoption by INSD of price schedules for goods and services delivered by INSD 
