Page  1
 1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB340 
Project Name 
Development of the National Statistical 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (85%);Information technology 
(15%) 
Project ID 
P085230 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
INSD 
01 BP 374 
Burkina Faso 
Tel: (226)31 07 60 
Fax: (226) 32 51 69 
insd@cenatrin.bf 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 23, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 06, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 16, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
The development community has recently seen a shift in strategy and more emphasis is being 
placed on evidence-based policymaking, measurable goal setting, and effective monitoring 
systems through Poverty Reduction Strategies and increased efforts to achieve the Millennium 
Development Goals. This has focused national and international attention on the gaps, accuracy 
and the timeliness of statistical data in Burkina Faso. As a result, there is increasing pressure on 
the National Statistical System to produce and disseminate relevant statistics that meet 
internationally accepted standards. 
 
To address this issue, the Burkinabe government has introduced a number of legal and 
institutional reforms and has been undertaking new statistical activities, such as household 
surveys on living conditions. The government has also subscribed to the IMF’s General Data 
Dissemination System, which proposes guidelines for the production and release of statistical 
data.   
 
Bilateral and multilateral organizations have supported these efforts with financial and technical 
assistance. Although some progress has been made, critical issues still remain: 
• 
The existing legislative framework, institutional coordination, and physical infrastructure 
limit efficient statistical operations. 
• 
The lack of an effective producer-user dialog and discrepancies between data supply and 
demand need to be overcome to meet evolving data needs. 
Page  2
 2
• 
Weak analytical capability of human resources, and limited dissemination, have 
constrained the use of economic and social information that have been collected 
• 
External financing of statistical activities has been largely ad-hoc, with the result that 
these activities have not been fully institutionalized. 
 
In this context, a Schéma directeur de la Statistique (SDS) or Statistical Master Plan was 
prepared by the government in June 2003 and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in July 2003. 
It is a long-term plan encompassing coordinated and coherent statistical activities consistent with 
the national development framework. The plan assesses the current situation of the national 
statistical system, and sets clear objectives for future improvement. It also evaluates resource and 
training requirements and defines detailed action plans in order to achieve these objectives. 
  
This project is designed to enable the government to implement this plan with a view towards 
ensuring country ownership of policy evaluation and outcome monitoring in a sustainable 
manner. The financial and technical support provided through this project will help the 
government achieve development goals by strengthening the capacity of the national statistical 
system to generate reliable, timely and relevant socioeconomic data. 
 
2. Objectives 
The principal outcome of this project is to improve policy decision making by enabling the 
government of Burkina Faso to produce and utilize timely and accurate quantitative and 
qualitative information and monitor progress towards national development goals, including 
poverty reduction and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  This project aims to build 
statistical capacity that enables the government to perform these activities efficiently and 
effectively 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Support for statistical development is often fragmented and uncoordinated, partly because donors 
and other investors require statistical data for the management of sectoral programs. In addition, 
many donors are often unable to provide support for all aspects of institutional development, 
such as infrastructure costs and costs associated with reorganization and human resource 
development. Through its close working relationship with international and bilateral 
organizations and past experience, the World Bank will promote a coordinated approach by 
donors to statistical development. The World Bank has worked in Burkina Faso in partnership 
with key international organizations, such as the IMF and UNDP that have a continued presence 
though their programs for statistical development. 
 
The World Bank has a global perspective and substantial experience in assisting countries 
develop better statistical systems, through the administration of both loans and grants (such as 
the Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building, the Institutional Development Fund and PRHD 
grants). In 1999, the first comprehensive statistical project was implemented in the Russian 
Federation and there have been projects with major statistical components in a number of 
countries. The World Bank has a unique combination of lending, technical and country expertise 
and therefore a comparative advantage in developing and implementing this project. 
 
4. Description 
Page  3
 3
The project will support organizational change and improvements in specific statistical areas as 
follows: 
• 
Development of the legal and institutional framework and of the capacity of statistical 
producers and users 
• 
Improvement in statistical infrastructure, such as production and dissemination methods 
and management of statistical information; 
• 
Production of better statistics in various sectors, including social and demographic, 
poverty and living conditions, agriculture, the environment, business, national accounts 
and, fiscal and financial statistics; 
Improvement in physical infrastructure and equipment (construction works, transport, 
equipment, computing facilities.) 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3.09 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10.00 
 Total 
13.09 
 
6. Implementation 
The Institut national de la Statistique et de la Démographie (INSD) will be responsible for the 
implementation of this project, as the central institution responsible for the national statistical 
system. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established within the INSD to carry out 
the day-to-day implementation of the project. Line ministries statistical departments will be 
responsible for implementing project components in their sectors, under the guidance and 
supervision of the PIU to ensure compliance with the procurement, disbursement and financial 
management policies and procedures.  
 
The INSD will work in close collaboration with the Conseil national de la Coordination 
statistique (CNCS), the National Statistical Coordination Council, which is the principal national 
body responsible for inter-agency coordination.  A Comité de pilotage, to be established within 
CNSC, will follow-up on implementation and impact monitoring in collaboration with PIU.  
 
7. Sustainability 
Sustainability of this project would largely depend on the Government commitment to provide 
budgetary support.  In approving the SDS, the Government committed to allocate the budget to 
support the implementation of the SDS over a period that would go beyond the lifetime of this 
project.  Capacity building with the project will also provide the country with a body of newly 
trained statisticians.  Improved capacity in statistics and managerial skills though the project will 
strengthen the system in the long run. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The general lesson learned from past experience of the design team in developing statistical 
capacity is that fragmented, uncoordinated programs of support do not result in sustainable 
systems. In addition, investments in information technology infrastructure, or improved 
methodologies, require accompanying organizational and management change in order to be 
effective. These lessons are reflected in the project design by approaching the development of 
Page  4
 4
the statistical system through the SDS. This ensures that appropriate assistance and investments 
are made in all areas of the statistical system, and that a wide range of both users and producers 
are involved and consulted.  
 
Another lesson learned from other development projects is that the beneficial impacts of projects 
tend to be limited to the lifetime of the project. In other words, activities and human resource 
capacity enhanced by these projects often fail to be sustained due to the absence of a long-term 
strategy and a well-planned integration mechanism. This project focuses on strengthening of 
legal and institutional frameworks, capacity building of human resources, and improvement of 
physical and statistical infrastructure whose impact is long-lasting and beneficial for existing and 
future statistical operations. When new activities or personnel are introduced, measures including 
providing progressively decreasing financing from the project will be taken to encourage their 
integration into the national statistical system by the project completion. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
No safeguard policies are triggered by this project.  
The safeguard screening category is S2 (no safeguard issues). 
The environmental screening category is B (minimal or no adverse environmental impact). 
GoBF issued an Arrêté in October 2003 to expose a Mitigation Plan for the impact of the 
construction on the environment.  The ISDS was posted to Infoshop on October 23, 2003.  
Details of the ISDS are in annex 10. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
Schéma Directeur de la Statistique (Statistical Master Plan on which the project is based) 
Environmental Assessment 
Institutional Assessment (PAD, technical annex) 
Procurement capacity assessment (PAD, technical annex) 
Financial Management Assessment (PAD, technical annex) 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Ghislaine C. Delaine 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  5
 5
Title: Sr Statistician 
Tel: (202) 473-1341 
Fax:  
Email: gdelaine@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
