Report No. PIC929
Project Name         Peru-Electricity Privatization Adjustment Loan
Region                        Latin America & the Caribbean
Sector                        Energy, Electric Power
Project ID                    PEPA8047
Implementing Agency           Government of Peru
Ministry of Energy and Mines, and
Comission for Promotion of
Private Investment (COPRI)
Lima, Peru
Contact: Carlos Montoya, COPRI
Tel: (5114) 754842
Fax: (5114) 750078
Date Prepared                 January 6, 1994
Projected Board Date          June 1994
1.   Project Objectives/Description.   The proposed loan would be
a $150 million three-tranche adjustment loan to support
privatization and regulatory reform in the electricity sector.
Tranche releases would be linked to progress in privatization and
regulatory reform, as well as maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework and financing plan.
2.   Background.  The electricity sector is emerging from a
crisis, the result of extended periods of policy and
institutional weaknesses at the government level, and of
deficient management, operations, and finances associated with
inadequate pricing and high indebtedness at the enterprise level.
Supplies continue to be affected by frequent interruptions, low
reliability and high losses. Drought-induced shortages of
hydropower made extensive electricity rationing necessary in 1989
and 1992.
3.   Since nationalization in the early 1970s, public electricity
service has been provided exclusively by government-owned
utilities, including: (a) Electroperu, a nation-wide generation
and transmission utility; (b) Electrolima, the second-largest
generation company and the largest distribution company; and (c)
nine smaller regional utilities. The Ministry of Energy and
Mines is responsible for formulating electricity policies and
supervising the electricity enterprises. The Electricity Tariff
Commission is charged with economic regulation, primarily setting
tariffs.
4.   Sector Objectives and Strategy. The Government became aware
at an early stage of its reform program that, in order to obtain
adequate and efficient electricity supplies without draining
public resources, far-reaching policy and institutional reforms
were needed. Key elements of the strategy include: (a)



deregulation of activities where competition is feasible,
combined with arm's-length regulation of natural monopolies; and
(b) privatization of state-owned enterprises and sector expansion
through new private investment.
5.   A new Electricity Law and corresponding regulations covering
the public system were enacted in late 1992/early 1993. Key
principles of the new legal framework are that:
(a) generation will be decentralized, deregulated, and made
subject to market forces through competition; (b) transmission
will provide open access to all suppliers and purchasers under
a common carrier system with an adequately regulated toll scheme;
and (c) distribution will continue as a natural monopoly, with
fully regulated rights and duties of suppliers and consumers.
Integrated enterprises are being segmented into independent
companies at the generation, transmission, and distribution
levels.
6.   The new structure of the electricity sector will result in
open access to all stages of the grid and free contracting
between producers and distributors and major consumers. Large-
volume consumers (in excess of 1,000 Kw, accounting for about 40
percent of total sales) will be allowed to negotiate contracts
directly with generation and distribution companies. Small-
volume consumers will be protected through tariff regulation
based on marginal cost pricing. Transactions between generating
companies will be self-regulated by the COES (supply pools to
manage load dispatch).
7.   By end-1989, electricity prices were only 18t of economic
costs overall (and only 2.3w for residential consumption).
Prices have been increased substantially since the new Government
took office in August 1990. At end-1993, tariffs averaged
roughly 77T of economic costs (defined as short-run marginal
costs over the following 48 months) for all consumers and 61- for
residential consumers.
8.   Project Implementation.   The Ministry of Energy and Mines is
responsible for implementing regulatory and institutional reforms
in the electricity sector. An inter-ministerial commission
(COPRI) oversees the Government's privatization program. Special
privatization committees, reporting to COPRI, have been appointed
to implement the privatization of Electrolima and Electroperu.
Consultants have been hired and technical work is well advanced.
Both companies are expected to be privatized during 1994.
9.   Tranche disbursements will be linked to continued progress
in four areas: (a) maintenance of a macroeconomic policy
framework and financing plan consistent with the objectives of
the reform program; (b) further legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms in the electricity sector, such as
enactment of anti-trust measures for the sector, and reinforcing
the autonomy of the Electricity Tariff Commission; (c) further
adjustment of electricity prices to economic levels; and (d)
progress in the privatization of the Government's holdings in the
- 2-



sector. As a quick-disbursing adjustment loan, the tranche
disbursements will be used to finance general eligible imports.
10.       Environmental Aspects.   General environmental
legislation is adequate. Detailed environmental regulations for
the electricity sector are being prepared and will be implemented
shortly. These regulations will set out the environmental
standards for the sector and procedures for preparation of
environmental impact assessments for new projects.
Contact Point -         Public Information Centre
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.:     (202)522-1500
Note:       This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



