Page  1
November 26, 1997
Mr. Jorge Camet 
Minister of Economy and Finance  
Republic of Peru
Dear Mr. Camet:
Loan No. 3595-PE (Privatization Adjustment Loan) - 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated April 21, 1993, between the Republic of 
Peru (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) for the above referenced Loan.
In order to implement the decision of the Executive Directors of the Bank that 
approved a simplified disbursement procedure under structural adjustment operations, 
we propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
The last clause of Whereas (A) of the Preamble is amended to read as follows: 
“, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during 
the execution thereof;”
2.
Paragraph (a) of Section 1.01 is amended to read as follows:
“(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";”
3.
The following paragraphs are added at the end of Section 1.01:
“(e)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of 
the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement." ;
(f)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.  Except as the 
Borrower and the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Bank, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
(g)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; and 
(h)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.”.
4.
The following paragraph is added at the end of Section 1.02:
“(g)
‘Deposit Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(a) of 
this Agreement.”.
5.
Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
Page  2
“Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Bank 
the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and 
thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on 
terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited 
by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan 
withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in 
support of the 
Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any 
time that any proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so 
excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into 
the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the 
Bank 
upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
cancellation.
(d) 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account:
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn 
from the Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
$75,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program in accordance with the 
provisions of the Letter of Development Policy; and
(B)
that the actions described in paragraph A of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn 
from the Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
$150,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program in accordance with the 
provisions of the Letter of Development Policy; and
(B)
that the actions described in paragraph B of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)
If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph (d) above, 
the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Program or that the actions taken are not satisfactory or that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower or the Financing Plan are not 
consistent with the objectives of the Program and, within 90 days after such notice, 
the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Bank, or the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework or Financing Plan continue to 
be inconsistent with the objectives of the Program, then the Bank may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.”
6.
Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
Page  3
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later 
than four months after the date of the Bank's request for such 
audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.”.
7.
Section 3.03 is deleted.
8.
Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 1 to this letter.
9.
Schedule 3 is deleted and Schedule 4 is renumbered as Schedule 3, with its title 
modified to read: “Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement”.
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date this letter in 
the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Bank receives one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Isabel Guerrero 
    Director 
    Country Management Unit  
    Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru 
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PERU
/s/ Jorge Camet 
    Authorized Representative
Date: December 17, 1997
Attachment 1
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Page  4
SITC, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containg tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery 
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods. For purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
