Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,4g  0 ? Yg3-Jo             i
Report No. 5260-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
November 30, 1984
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This documnt has a restricted distribution and may be uLsed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD 0.370        = US$1.00 1/
JD 1.00         =  US$2.70
JD 1.00         =  1,000 fils
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                      =  0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (km2)              =  0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                         =  2.47 acres
Millimeter (mm)                      =  0.03937 inches
Centimeter (cm)                     =  0.3937 inches
Meter (m)                            =  39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (m3)                    =  264 US Gallons
Cubic Meters per second (O3/sec)    =  22,800 US Gallons per day
Liter (1)                           =  0.264 US Gallons
Liters per second (1/sec)           =  22,800 US Gallons per day
Liters per capita per day (lcd)      =  0.264 US Gallons per capita per
day
Milligram per liter (mg/i)           =  1.0 part per million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGTP        -    Ain Ghazal Treatment Plant
AWSA        -    Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
EGMC        -    East Ghor Main Canal
GOJ         -    Government of Jordan
JVA         -    Jordan Valley Authority
LRAIC       -    Long Run Average Incremental Cost
MCM         -    Million Cubic Meters
MOP         -    Ministry of Planning
NPC         -    National Planning Council
NRA         -    Natural Resources Authority
PMCS        -    Project Management and Construction Unit
USAID       -    United States Agency for International Development
WA          -    Water Authority of Jordan
WSC         -    Water Supply Corporation
GOJ'S AND WA'S FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
1/ As of July 1, 1984.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........       ............  ..............        i
I.   SECTORAL CONTEXT .....................................                1
A.  Background ...............................................  .....  1
B.  Water Resources ..................................               2
C.  Water Supply ....... ................                            2
D. Sewerage ........................                                 2
E.  Government Strategy in the Sector ..............co      ..       3
F.  Institutional Aspects ..........................  .             ..  4
G. IDA/Bank Role in the Sector                  .        .           5
H. Rationale for Bank Involvement                 .       .          6
II.   POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICE AND DEMAND IN PROJECT AREA                 7
A.  Project Area ....................                                7
B.  Population Projections ...........................               7
C. Population Served and Standard of Services in
Project Area   .................................               8
D.  Demand for Services ..............................              10
III. THE PROJECT ...... o................ ...... ..o ... ...                12
A.  Genesis ......................................... ....          12
B.  Sewerage and Sewage Disposal Master Plan .........              12
C.  Project Objectives .....          ..........................    13
D.  Technological Aspects .....          .......................    14
E.  Project Composition . ................... ..........            15
F.  Cost Estimates ......         .............................     15
G.  Project Financing Plan ...............         o..........      17
H.  Project Implementation .         . .........................    18
I.  Procurement          ......................................     19
J.  Disbursement ...............L....................               21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Jordan in
June 1984.  Mission members included Lars Rasmusson, Arun Banerjee, and
Xavier Legrain.
This document has a rsuricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Paxe No.
IV.   THE BENEFICIARY ......................................   23
A.  Organization and Management ........ ..............   23
B.   Institutional Development .......         .................   24
C.  Staffing and Training            ............................    24
D.  Billing and Collection            ...........................    25
E.  Accounting .....................................                 26
Fe  Audit ................................ . ...... .                26
G.  Insurance .....................................                  27
V.   FINANCE ..............................................    28
A.  Past Performance and Present Position ....             ........   28
B.  Tariff - Cost Recovery ........           ...................   28
C.  The WA's Sources and Applications of Funds .... ...   29
D.  Future Financial Performance                .....................   30
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ....              ......   32
A.  Socio-Economic Analysis .......... ..           ..............   32
B.  Average Incremental Costs ......... .. .............   32
C.  Affordability        ................. ...................   33
D.  Institution Building ..............            ...............   33
E.  Project Risks .. ..................................    33
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....               ...........   34
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   -  Table I  -  Population and Waste Water Flows    .....   35
-  Table 2  -  Population Connected to the
Sewage Systems ......................   36
-  Table 3  -  Cost Estimates .......................   37
-  Table 4  -  Monitoring Indicators ....             ............   38
-  Table 5  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..    39
-  Table 6  -  Current Water and Sewerage Tariffs ...    41



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
- Table 7 - Income and Expenditure Statement
Greater Amman Water Operations   ......   43
- Table 8 -  Income and Expenditure Statement
Greater Amman Sewerage Operation  ....    44
- Table 9 -  Income and Expenditure Statement
Water Authority Consolidated   ........   45
- Table 10 - Sources and Applications of Funds
Water Authority Consolidated   ........   46
- Table 11 - Balance Sheet Water Authority
Consolidated  ........................    47
- Table 12 - Rate of Return .......................      48
ANNEX 2  Major Assumptions Used in Financial Projections .....     49
ANNEX 3  Additional Information Available in Project
File .    ......     ................................   51
CHARTS
Chart No. 1 - Project Implementation Schedule ...............    52
Chart No. 2 - Organizational Structure ......................    53
iAPS
IBRD No.18434 - Greater Amman Area, Sewerage and Sewage Disposal
Systems



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:            The Water Authority or Jordan (WA).
Amount:                 US$30 million equivalent.
Terms:                  15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:        Same as the Bank loan.  The WA will bear the foreign
exchange and the interest rate risk.
Project Description:    The project would improve the water supply and
sewerage services in the Greater Amman area and would
include: (i) extension and rehabilitation of about 100
km of water mains; (ii) construction of about 350 km
of trunk and collection sewers; (iii) construction of
two sewage treatment works; (iv) supply of operating
and maintenance equipment; and (v) consultant
services for engineering, project management and
construction supervision. The project will continue
the institutional development efforts started under
two previous Bank loans. The main beneficiaries of
the project would be the low and middle-income
families in the project area. Because of the recent
establishment of the WA, initial difficulties might be
encountered in its institutional and organizational
development. This risk is, however, minimized through
to-e provision of adequate advisory staff in finance,
management and technical matters.



- ii -
Estimated Cost*:                                 Local      Foreign       Total
(US$ Mill ons) --
Water Distribution Systems                        0.97        2.25         3.22
Sewage Systems                                    7.35       17.11        24.46
Sewage Treatment Works                            3.86        4.36         8.22
Operational and Maintenance Equipment              -          0.27         0.27
Consulting Services                               1.11        0.32         1.43
Land Acquisition                                  0.11         -           0.11
Base Cost                              13.40        24.31       37.71
Physical Contingencies                            1.22        2.37         3.59
Price Contingencies                               2.27        4.16         6.43
Total Cost                             16.9                     47. i7
Interest During Construction                                  8.67         8.67
Total Financing Required                fiIIh2
Financing Plan
Proposed World Bank loan                                     30.00        30.00
Government contribution                          16.59        9.51        26.10
Funds from operations                             0.30         -           0.30
Total Financing                         L"24
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  Bank FY
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Annual        0.6      7.5     8.8     5.2      2.9     1.0     2.4      1.6
Cumulative    0.6     8.1    16.9    22.1    25.0    26.0    28.4    30.0
Economic Justification: Least cost program.
* Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which the
project is exempt.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
1.01     Jordan is a semi-desert country with a land area of about 91,000
sq. km with the only access to the sea along a 25 km coastline in the
south where the seaport of Aqaba is located. The most remarkable
physical feature of the country is the structural split of the Red
Sea/Jordan Rift Valley which has created a long narrow trough of land,
rulnning from Aqaba in the south to the foot of Mount Hermon in Syria in
the north. Much of the land in this trough, which includes the Jordan
Valley and Wadi Araba, is below sea level with the water level in the
Dead Sea at -392 m. To the east, the land rises steeply to a plateau
with an average altitude of about 800 m with peaks rising to over 1,500
m.  This plateau constitutes the uplands of Jordan and is characterized
by a more temperate climate and relatively abundant rainfall. Further
towards the east, rainfall decreases rapidly and the land slopes gently
to the Arabian Desert.
1.02     The Housing and Population Census conducted in 1979 estimated
the population at 2.15 million, of which some 60% is urban.-  About
90% of the population lives in the northwest quadrant of the country.
The net growth rate is about 3.8% per annum.
1.03     Administratively the East Bank of Jordan is divided into five
governorates:  Amman, Irbid, Balqa, Kerak and Ma'an.  The governorates
are further subdivided into districts, subdistricts and nahias, the
smallest units of regional administration. The total number of nahias in
the country is 44, encompassing about 1,017 population centers.
1/ Urban communities are defined to include all principal towns of each
governorate, district, sub-district and the urban population as
computed corresponds roughly to the population in towns with 10,000
or more people.



-2-
B. Water Resources
1.04     About 80% of Jordan's land area is desert.  Availability of
water depends largely on rainfall, ranging from moderate amounts (600
millimeters per year) in the northern uplands to negligible amounts in
the southern and eastern deserts, over 85% of which is lost through
evaporation. As the more conveniently located sources of municipal and
industrial water supplies have become fully utilized, surface and
groundwater in other areas, hitherto used for agriculture, will have to
be transported at high cost over long distances and/or steep gradients to
meet these needs. The rapid growth of the economy in recent years and
the associated increase in municipal, industrial and agricultural water
demands, coupled with Jordan's high rate of natural increase, have put
serious pressure on the country's limited water resources; and water
scarcity may become a principal constraint to economic growth. In these
circumstances, it is crucial for Jordan to realize the maximum benefits
from its limited resources by the continued development and
implementation of a sound sector strategy and through prudent water
resource management.
C. Water Supply
1.05     About 85Z of the urban population is supplied through house
connections. However, due to source inadequacy, the supplies in many
areas are intermittent; and over 302 of the water produced for municipal
water supply is lost through leakage, due in part to corroded pipes in
the major distribution systems. In 1979 about 60% of the rural
population was provided with piped water supply, with the remainder
supplied through private wells or tankers operated privately or by the
Water Authority (WA); with ongoing extension works this is expected to
reach about 80% by 1985. Even where public piped water supply exists,
however, there is a danger that intermittent supplies can lead to
contaminated water and effluents entering the system through leaks when
it is depressurized. This risk is particularly acute where septic tanks
and cesspits are used.
D. Sewerage
1.06     At present, only four cities (Amman, Salt, Aqaba, and Jerash)
have sewage collection and treatment systems, which serve about 302 of
Jordan's population. Sewage systems are being constructed in



-3-
Irbid, Zarqa, and Ruseifa; and plans are underway for systems in ten
medium size cities, six in north Jordan and four in the south, eight of
which are included under the Bank financed Eight Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Loan 2425-JO), which will provide services to another
20X of the country. In areas where sewage systems do not exist, the
wastes are discharged in septic tanks, cesspools and similar facilities.
Despite significant efforts to provide sewerage in recent years, rapid
growth in urbanization, rising standards of living and extensive but
uncoordinated land development have caused individual waste water
disposal facilities to become inadequate, particularly in high density
areas and in soils with limited percolation capacity. Occassionally,
overflows or improper disposal of cesspool waste occur, creating major
health hazards. Severe outbreaks of cholera have occurred in Jordan, the
latest in 1981. The infant mortality rate has declined in recent years
but still remains high (60 per 1000 live births in 1982) as does the
incidence of water-related infectious diseases. This suggests the need
for continuing efforts to improve water supply and sanitation conditions
in the country.
E. Government Strategy in the Sector
1.07     The scarcity of water and the high cost of its developmei.t have
long been recognized by the Government. Based on a number of studies
over the years, including the recently completed Bank Water Sector Study
(Report No. 4699-JO), available water resources are projected to be
adequate to meet municipal and industrial needs beyond the turn of the
century with a modest increase available for irrigation if the Government
pursues appropriate policies in the following areas: (i) proper
allocation of known resources and new resource development (which
includes transfer of water from water surplus to deficit areas,
continuing exploratory work for ground water sources and further
development of remaining surface sources); (ii) prudent water resource
management by strengthening the sector's institutional capability; (iii)
quantity and quality control of water and wastewater; (iv) development of
policies related to reuse of waste water; (v) development of appropriate
cost recovery and other financial policies; and (vi) manpower planning
and training.
1.08     Aided by sound Government policies, water conservation is
generally practised throughout the country. The Government has made
impressive strides in developing the sector. It has embarked on a
program of large water projects to help relieve water shortages,
particularly in the upland areas of northwest Jordan. During the current
Five-Year Plan period (1981-85), almost 162 of public sector investment
is allocated for water and irrigation, which is about seven times the
corresponding actual investments in the previous plan period



-4-
(1976-80). The Government has also adopted a policy for adequately treating
all sewage from industries and municipalities which are sewered so that
effluents may be suitable for reuse in agriculture. The Government, with the
assistance of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
is in the process of developing a data management system, which will monitor
quantities and physical and chemical qualities of water resources in the
country. The newly created Water Authority (WA) (para. 1.09) will be
responsible for maintaining and policing this system. In order to deal with
the problems of leakage and intermittent water supply, the WA is developing a
program to systematically detect and repair leaks and to improve water
distribution. These efforts should help reduce the risk of bacteriologically
unsafe water.
F. Institutional Aspects
1.09     In the past, the sector was plagued with problems of inadequate
coordination due to the large number of institutions involved in the water
supply and sewerage sector. This often led to duplication of efforts and
sub-optimal investment decisions. As recowmended in the Bank's Water Sector
Study, an autonomous agency, the WA, was created to take over the
responsibilities for providing water supply and sewerage services, water
resource management and monitoring, planning, development and allocation, and
water quality monitoring for the whole of Jordan. This has set the
institutional framework necessary to better husband critically scarce water
resources in order to sustain economic growth. The thrust of the WA's work
will be to formulate policies and take appropriate measures to augment the
country's usable water resources, to efficiently allocate these among the
various competitive users and to ensure that the water allocated is used
economically. The present organization of the WA is expected to evolve as it
develops to fully assume its mandated role, and the WA is studying its
organizational needs over the long-term in order to modify its organizational
structure, if necessary. Bank funds have been provided
for a management advisor to assist the WA in this work (para. 4.05).
1.10     In view of the growth of sector-related institutions and operational
facilities, the demand for trained personnel has become an urgent matter. In
the past most of the institutions involved in the sector had some training
programs, and several education institutions provided some sector-related
training, but this was generally ad hoc, unfocussed and suffered from a lack
of coordination. Many of those who were trained were siphoned off by the
private sector or by neighboring countries where salaries are substantially
higher. With the assistance of USAID, WA is in the process of implementing a
national training program to tackle both short- and long-term problems in this
area.



-5-
1.11     Tariffs for urban municipal water supply have generally been in line
with the cost of these services and sewerage charges have been generally
adequate.  In Amman, the total income from water and sewerage revenues does
cover total operating expenditures of water and sewerage and debt service.
Ineffective control of groundwater extraction by industry and agriculture,
where tariffs or extraction fees have not been imposed or are below costs of
production, has resulted in serious depletion of groundwater in populated
areas. Consequently, water for munic:nal supplies has had to be transported
from distant locations at high costs. A tariff study for municipal and
industrial water uses under th_ Zarqa/Ruseifa project (Loan 2213-JO) will help
develop the necessary financial strategies (para. 5.05).
G. IDA/Bank Role in the Sector
1.12     IDA commenced its assistance to the sector in the 1960s.  The FY62
Credit 18-JO for $2.0 million and FY64 Credit 43-JO for $1.5 million supported
water supply development respectively in Amman and in the cities of
Ramallah-El Bira, Jerusalem, Nablus, Azraq, Irbid, and Zarqa.  In the 1970s,
the Government concentrated its efforts on developing the water supply and
sewerage services of Amman, which also resulted in the creation of the former
Amman Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA). The FY73 $8.7 million Credit
385-JO and FY78 $14 million Credit 780-JO assisted in the development of AWSA
and helped finance investments for Amman's rapidly expanding needs for
additional water supply and sewerage facilities. These projects have been
successfully completed, and completion reports for Credits 385-JO and 780-JO
have been prepared. No Project Performance Audit Reports have yet been
prepared. The lessons learned from the above projects include the need for
better coordination in planning and execution of projects and the particular
importance of reducing unaccounted-for water in a largely water deficit
situation. The completion report for the FY73 project (Sec.79-491) also noted
that while substantial efforts had gone into the institutional development of
AWSA. weaknesses remained, particularly in its financial department. These
factors have been taken into account in the design of later projects.
1.13     In FY83, the Bank provided further assistance through Loan 2213-JO of
$17.0 million for the improvement of the water supply and sewerage services
for the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa. A prime project objective was to
strengthen the Water Supply Corporation (WSC), the project implementing and
operating agency, which was responsible for water supply and sewerage in areas
outside Amman and the Jordan Valley Authority. Technical and financial
advisors have already been engaged, and measures to improve operations and
financial management are underway. With the recent reorganization of the
sector, responsibility for the execution and operation of the project has been
taken over by the WA, which will be assisted by these advisors in its
organization.ul development. The Bank also approved in Kay 1984, a loan of



-6-
$30.0 million (Loan 2425-JO) to the WA for the Eight Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Project.
H. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.14     The Bank's recently completed Water Sector Study made several
recommendations concerning the sector's organization and financial policies;
outlined a strategy to develop available water resources for meeting the needs
of competing users; established general recommendations for appropriate waste
water disposal and formulated associated investment programs. Based on this,
the Bank's overall strategy in the sector includes assistance to the
Government in implementing policies to efficiently manage and allocate the
country's scarce water resources, executing technically sound and economically
feasible projects to increase usable water resources (including effluent
reuse), strengthening sector institutions including training and establishing
sound pricing policies to assure economic use and conservation of water and to
allow operating entities to be financially viable and self-sustaining.
1.15     The proposed project has been designed to support the Bank's overall
strategy. Specifically, the project would present the Bank with a continuing
opportunity to play an essential role in providing assistance and advice, and
in ensuring proper follow-up actions for (i) the development of appropriate
management and organizational systems f ,r the WA; (ii) judicious selection and
formulation of potential projects and related investment strategies; and (iii)
improvements in operational areas such as financial planning, accounting,
auditing, manpower planning and training.



- 7 -
II. POPULATION, SE.CTOR SERVICE AND DEMAND IN PROJECT AREA
A. Pro ect Area
2.01     Amman, the capital of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, has
experienced rapid growth in the past two decades, and has become a major
metropolis surrounded by growing suburbs and outlying commlunities. The
economy of the Amman Region has, in recent years, been characterized by a
continuing shift in relative importance from the agrizultural sector to
the industrial and service sectors. Most of the industrial activities
are concentrated in the Zarqa and Ruseifa areas.
2.02     The Greater Amman Area is defined as an area lying within a 25
kilometer radius of the center of Amman. The Project Area falls within
the Greater Amman Area and comprises the municipalities of Amman, Wadi es
Sir, Suweileh, Baqa'a Camp and the Suburban ring (Map IBRD 18434).
B. Population Proiections
2.03     Population projections through the year 2000 for the Greater
Amman Area and the Project Area, with its related municipalities and
drainage zones, are presented in Annex 1, Table 1 and summarized below:
Municipalities                    1979       1990      2000
C (000)~
Amman                             649       1,020     1,305
Suburban Ring                       16         74       250
Baqa'a Valley                      45          45        45
Wadi es Sir                         25         39        62
Suweileh                            21         31        44
Sub-Total Project Area            756       1,209     1,706
Other Areas                       517         848     1,281
Total Greater Amman Area



-8-
Drainage Zones in Project Area
Amman                              687       1,128     1,615
Baqa'a Valley                       64          72        83
Wadi es Sir                          9          14        21
Total                           760      12             2
The population in the project area by the year 2000 would correspond to
about 57Z of the population in the Greater Amman area.
2.04     Population projections for the Greater Amman Area have been
prepared taking into account employment, income, land use and building
restrictions. The saturation population of the Amman municipality is
projected to be realized within the period 1990-2000, while saturation
for the suburban municipalities is projected to occur well beyond the
year 2000. As the population approaches saturation levels the average
growth rates are expected to decline and therefore the projected annual
average growth rates for the periods 1979-1990 and 1991-2000 have been
assumed at 4.46% and 3.80% respectively.
C. Population Served zmnd Standard of Services in Project Area
2.05     The water supply in the Greater Amman is based on the following
water sources with a total present capacity of about 39 million m3 per
year (MCM): (i) various local wells mainly located within the water
distribution area with a capacity of 20 MCM; (ii) the Azraq well field
located some 85 km east of Amman with a capacity of 12 MCM; and (iii) the
Qastal and Siwaqa wellfields located south of Amman with a capacity of 7
MCM. About 85X of the population is connected to the public water supply
system the remainder being served by public taps (4Z) and water tankers
(11X). The water consumption for connected supply averages around 85
liter per capita per day (lcd).  The unaccounted-for water-'' amounts to
about 44% of water produced, which is comparatively high. With improved
water supply and distribution system
1/ Unaccounted-for water is the difference between volume of water
produced and water sold divided by volume of water produced. It
includes inaccuracies in water metering, non-metered water used at
public hydrants, and leakages.



- 9 -
pressure the rate of leakage has gone up, which, however, il expected to
be reduced through ongoing rehabilitation or replacement of o'-der water
mains. The water supply is for the time being sufficient. The water
supply facilities are generally well operated and maintained but still
some 6Z of water samples being taken are bacteriologically unsatisfactory.
2.06     In Amman about 77% of the population is connected to the sewage
system (in 1984) and in the outlying municipalities only about 4%. The
remaining population relies mainly on cesspool installations with the
effluent percolating into the ground.
2.07     In the Greater Amman Area, there are three municipal sewage
disposal systems. These are (i) the Amman system; (ii) the King Hussein
Medical Center system with an average sewage treatment capacity of about
1500 m3/day; and (iii) the Municipality of Salt system with an average
sewage treatment capacity of about 2,440 m3/day.  The Amman system,
with the Ain Ghazal Treatment Plant (AGTP), is by far the most
extensive. The sewage collection operates by gravity apart from two
minor areas served by pumping stations . Because of low water
consumption the sewage effluent is of high strength and on occasions the
BOD5 (Five-Day Biological Oxygen Demand) has reached values of up to 1000
mg/Il.2-
2.08     The operational experience from the AGTP could be summarized as
follows: Ci) the treatment plant has been in operation since 1969 and
incorporates the activated sludge process and anaerobic sludge digestion
and was designed for an average flow of 60,000 m3/day and for a
biological loading of 15,000 kg/day; (ii) its actual capacity would be
limited to about 30,000 m3/day, but it is presently treating about
45,000 m3/day for a tributary population of about 590,000; (iii) the
sludge handling facilities, digesters and filter presses have recently
been extended; and (iv) the plant performance has been adversely
affected by the high strength sewage.
2.09     The cesspool installations operate with varying degrees of
efficiency depending upon loadings, soil conditions and maintenance.
Maintenance costs (pump-outs) can be significant and in many instances
the cesspool effluent overflows or is pumped illegally into the streets,
creating a sanitary nuisance and a health hazard.
2/ A common value would be about 250 mg/l.



- 10 -
D. Demand for Services
2.10     The Greater Amman Area is water-deficient.  This situation could
be further aggravated as population grows and industrial development
continues. Alleviating measures in the area of water resources
management and conservation and waste water recycling are thus being
emphasized. A water supply project for the Greater Amman Area based on
the East Ghor Main Canal (EGMC), fed by the Yarmouk river, is also
presently being implemented by the Jordan Valley Authority (JVA).
Salient project data can be summarized as follows: (i) it is designed for
a capacity of 45 MCM or 123,300 m3/day; (ii) it includes treatment
facilities consisting of sedimentation and rapid sand filtration and a
series of pumping plants for a pumping head of about 1,300 meters; and
(iii) it is estimated to cost about US$llO million equivalent, is
financed by the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) and is scheduled to be commissioned by early 1985.
2.11     With the completion of the EGMC project the water availability
in the Greater Amman Area will increase to about 84 MCM. Future water
source development will be integrated for the northwest quadrant of
Jordan covering the Governorates of Amman, Balqa and Irbid, for which
feasibility and engineering studies have been undertaken including
primary and secondary conveyance systems.
2.12     The main data for water demand projections and water source
developments for an integrated system may be summarized as follows: (i)
past and projected water demands amount to 67 MC-M by 1982, 101 MCM by
1990 and 172 MCM by 2005; (ii) the existing water source capacity for
municipal use is 66 MC14; (iii) the capacity of water sources under
development totals 65 MCM (Wadi Arab 20 MCMI' and EGMC 45 MCM); (iv)
the potential capacity of future water sources which include Mukheiba,
Wadi Wala and Wadi Mujib, and the River Yarmouk (Makarin Dam) is
estimated at 132 MCM; (v) with the commissioning of water sources under
development the water production capacity would be sufficient to about
mid-1990s; and (vi) the major investments to be undertaken in the
intermediate term would consist of a continuous strengthening of the
water conveyance and distribution systems.
2.13     The WA is presently extending the sewage disposal facilities for
the Amman area by the construction of stabilization ponds in the area of
Schirbet es Samra the most important features of which may be summarized
as follows: (i) the sewage is to be conveyed to the stabilization ponds
by gravity in a transmission main with a length of about 40 km and a
capacity of 147,000 m3/day to be laid from the site for AGTP; (ii) the
3/ To serve the Irbid area.



- 11 -
stabilization ponds are designed with a capacity of 68,000 m3/day
(35,750 kg BOD/day) and to provide adequate treatment to enable effluent
reuse; (iii) the works are scheduled to be commissioned by mid 1985 and
would then together with AGTP provide satisfactory treatment capacity for
the projected sewage flows from the Amman drainage zone up to early
1990s; and (iv) the investment costs (US$49 million equivalent) are
financed by local funds.
2.14     Considering that the water supply for the Greater Amman Area and
for the northwest quadrant of Jordan would be adequate for the time being
and that the Amman sewage treatment facilities are being extended the
priorities for the Greater Amman Area are: (i) to extend the sewerage
network in densely populated areas; (ii) to provide  - r satisfactory
sewage disposal facilities for areas outside the Amman municipality; and
(iii) to strengthen and rehabilitate the water distribution system.
2.15     In order to enable a satisfactory recycling of scarce water
resources and to minimize related health risks adequate sewage treatment
would be required. Effluent quality standards are proposed to be 30mg/l
as a monthly average for both BOD5 and SS with faecal coliform organisms
as MPN (Most Probable Number) to be less than lOO/lOOml in 802 of
samples, which are satisfactory. Wastewater effluents from the treatment
plants will be discharged into river beds where they will either
percolate into the groundwater or finally be collected in impoundments
such as the King Talal Dam. In this process the water quality will
further improve thus making it suitable for most types of irrigation.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Genesis
3.01     The National Planning Council (NPC)4' entered into an
agreement for professional services with James M. Montgomery Consulting
Engineers, Inc., and DMJM International (USA consulting firms) on May 17,
1980 to prepare a Master Plan for wastewater disposal for the Greater
Amman Area. The study, financed by USAID, was completed in February
1982. The same consulting firms were engaged by the NPC in July 1982 for
the final engineering for a first stage extension. Subsequent changes in
the scope of work particularly regarding the AGTP (para 3.10)
necessitated a renegotiation of the consultant contract and since no
agreement could be reached the consultant assignment was terminated in
December 1982.
3.02     A local consulting firm (MIMAR) in association with Howard
Humphreys, U.K., was appointed in February 1984 for the final engineering
for the sewage treatment plants for Wadi es Sir and Baqa'a Valley which
are expected to be completed by end 1984. While the NPC was responsible
for the preparation of the Master Plan, the WA became responsible for the
completion of the engineering designs.
3.03     At the completion of the Master Plan by mid-1982, Bank's
financial assistance was requested. In the missions which followed, the
Bank was involved in the identification and preparation of a project
package and in engaging consulting firms.
B. Sewerage and Sewage Disposal Master Plan
3.04     The Master Plan covers the period through the year 2000.  Major
considerations taken into account in its elaboration were: (i) to
optimize the sewerage coverage with the use of cesspool facilities in
fringe population areas, and where effluent percolation can take place
without causing groundwater pollution; (ii) to adapt the sewage treatment
requirements to effluent reuse possibilities; (iii) to evaluate works
required for different drainage zones and the extent to which combined
4/ The Ministry of Planning (MOP) was established in November 1984 aad
assumed the responsibilities of the former NPC.



- 13 -
treatment facilities for several zones would be feasible; and (iv) to
establish criteria for phased extension of proposed sewerage and sewage
disposal works.
3.05     The Master Plan recommends the subdivision of the Greater Amman
Area into ten drainage zones, with one for the Amman municipality. Each
zone would be provided with sewage disposal facilities for biological
treatment. Stabilization ponds have been recommended where sufficient
land is readily available, while otherwise the processes of extended
aeration, activated sludge or trickling filters have been proposed.
3.06     The implementation of the Master Plan will be phased for reasons
of constraints in financial and project implementation capacity. Based
on priorities established for sewerage coverage and sewage treatment
requirements the first phase extension of the Master Plan would
comprise: (i) extension of the sewage systems in the Amman and Upper
Wadi Abdoun-' areas; and (ii) extension of sewage and sewage disposal
systems in the Baqa'a Valley and Wadi es Sir drainage areas.
C. Proiect Obiectives
3.07     The major project objectives would be:  (i) to extend the
sewerage services in the project area to about 94% of total population
(in 1989) from present coverage of about 67% through rehabilitation and
extension of the sewage systems (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2); (ii) to reduce
groundwater pollution by decreasing the infiltration of cesspool
effluents within the Greater Amman area through the reduction in the
number of cesspool installations so that by 1989 only about 45% of the
population will be served by cesspools as compared to 60% of the
population in 1984; (iii) to enable recycling of the waste-water for
agricultural purposes through the provision of satisfactory sewage
treatment facilities; (iv) to improve the water supply services and to
reduce water losses through distribution system rehabilitation; (v) to
assist in the development of the WA and in the establishment of proper
financial procedures in order to achieve financial self-sufficiency
through adequate charges for water supply and sewerage services; and
(vi) to prepare for next stage extension of water supply, sewerage and
sewage disposal facilities on a priority basis.
5/ This area covers the Suburban Ring, the eastern part of Wadi es Sir
and the southern part of Suweilah.



- 14 -
3.08     The project would be in concordance with the country objectives
in water resources management and conservation and would have a
significant impact on the living conditions and the health standard
through improved excreta disposal facilities and through reduced ground
and surface water pollution.
D. Technological Aspects
3.09     The alternatives to extending a sewage system or maintaining
on-site excreta disposal facilities have been evaluated and the following
conclusions reached: (i) in the Amman and Upper Wadi Abdoun areas which
are comparatively densely populated and already provided with a sewage
interception system it is feasible to extend the sewerage coverage to the
bulk of the population; (ii) in the Baqa'a Valley area where the major
portion of the proposed sewerage coverage relates to the very densely
populated refugee camps the extension of a sewage system is the only
feasible alternative; (iii) in the Wadi es Sir area there is a prevalent
risk for ground water pollution and the population density is almost as
significant as in the Baqa'a Valley area ; and .iv) for the Baqa'a Valley
and Wadi es Sir areas a comparative cost estimate has indicated that a
sewage system would be less expensive than on-site installation because
of the latter's high operational costs. The sanitary sewage and the
storm water systems are and will be retained separately throughout the
Greater Amman area.
3.10     For the Amman drainage zone the Master Plan recommended the
expansion of the AGTP, but since it was rapidly approaching overloaded
conditions the WA had proposed, as an immediate relief measure to
construct stablization ponds on a temporary basis. In a later
development the WA decided to construct and maintain the stabilization
ponds on a permanent basis and also to maintain AGTP at its present
capacity. Future enlargement in the sewage treatment capacity might also
be accommodated at the stabilization ponds through the installation of
aerators.
3.11     The Master Plan suggested that secondary treatment for major
treatment works would consist of roughing filters to be followed by the
activated sludge process. Such an arrangement would be comparatively
high in energy consumption and for the proposed treatment works at Wadi
es Sir and Baqa'a Valley trickling filters have been evaluated to be more
feasible. This would also satisfy the effluent quality requirements. It
has also been evaluated to be economical to transport the raw sludge by
tankers from the proposed new treatment works to the sludge treatment
facilities at the AGTP. Investigations are being made for the potential
use of the treated sludge for soil conditioning.



- 15 -
3.12     The basis for overall system design is as follows:  (i) the per
capita sewage flow which has been assumed at 80% of the water consumption
varies between 70 to 105 liter per day depending on the area served;
(ii) the peak flow factor has been assu.ned at twice the average sewage
flow; (iii) the interceptors are designed for the projected flow by the
year 2,000; and (iv) the treatment works will be extended in phases with
the first phase to cover the period up to the year 1990. The trunk mains
will, where needed, be provided with a PVC or similar lining as a
corrosion protection. Sewer connections are being included up to the
property border lines.
3.13     Alternatives selected and various project ccmponents recommended
for implementation represent the moast feasible least cost solutions at a
discount rate of 10%. The proposed phasing of the various project
components and the design criteria used are appropriate.
E. Project Composition
3.14     The project includes the following major components: (i) about
1OOkm of water distribution network; (ii) about 350km of trunk mains and
secondary sewers; (iii) sewage treatment works for Baqa'a Valley and Wadi
es Sir drainage zones with a capacity of 8,000 and 2,400 m3/day
(maximum flow) respectively; (iv) operation and maintenance equipment;
and (v) consultant assistance for engineering, project management and
construction supervision.
F. Cost Estimates
3.15     Annex 1, Table 3 shows a breakdown of the cost estimates which
are summarized below:



- 16 -
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    X of
-------JD          --  -us$ Equivalent---            Total
--- ~~~-Million-
Base Costs
- Water Distribution
Network               0.36    0.83    1.19      0.97    2.25       3.22     7
- Trunk mains and
Secondary Sewage
System                2.72    6.33    9.05       7.35   17.11    24.46    51
- Treatment Works        1.43    1.61    3.04       3.86    4.36      8.22    17
- Operational and
Maintenance
Equipment             -      0.10    0.10       -       0.27     0.27      1
- Land Acquisition       0.04     -       0.04      0.11     -        0.11     -
Sub-Total            4.55    8.87   13.42    12.29   23.99    36.28    76
Engineering, Project
Management and
Construction
Supervision             0.41    0.12    0.53      1.11    0.32       1.43     3
Contingencies
- Physical               0.45    0.88    1.33       1.22    2.37      3.59     8
- Price                  0.84    1.54    2.38       2.27    4.16      6.43    13
Sub-Total            1.29    2.42    3.71      3.49    6.53    10.02    21
Total               6i.A25 1.    L7.66    16.89   3.4            7.7 R2
Interest During
Construction             -      3.21    3.21       -       8.67     8.67
Total Financing
Required                6.25   14.62        20.87    56.8    39i.51    56.4Q



- 17 -
3.16     The cost estimates are based on preliminary engineering design
for the various project components. The base costs are mid-1984 price
levels and the physical contingencies average 10X. The price
contingencies for both civil works and material and equipment and for
both local and foreign costs components have been estimated at 7.5% for
1984, 71 for 1985 and 6S thereafter. The cost estimates do not include
direct import duties and taxes as the WA is exempt from those.
3.17     The engineeering, project management and construction
supervision costs are estimated at about US$1.43 million equivalent which
correspond to about 440 and 22 man-months for local and foreign
consultants respectively. Consultant costs are more expensive than in
neighboring countries because of the high cost of living in Jordan.
3.18     The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$39.6 million
equivalent (including capitalized interest) or 70Z of total costs. This
reflects assumptions made regarding goods to be imported, civil works
contracts to be awarded to foreign and local contractors and the average
foreign cost components of locally manufactured material and equipment.
G. Proiect Financing Plan
3.19     The project financing plan is given below:
Local      Foreign       Total     %
------(US$ Million) ------
Requirements (para. 3.15)          16.9         39.6        56.5      100
Financing
- Proposed Bank Loan                 -          30.0        30.0       53
- Government Contributions         16.6          9.6        26.2       46
- Available from operations         0.3           -          0.3        1
Total                         _kd         am           5Ai5     uQ
3.20     The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government, which
coordinates all foreign financing for public sector investments through
the MOP on standard terms for Jordan, i.e. for 15 years including 3 years
grace. The Government would on-lend the Bank loan to the WA on the same



- 18 -
terms and conditions under a separate subsidiary loan agreement. The WA
would bear both the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Interest
and other charges during construction over the grace period and the
front-end fee would be added to the subsidiary loan. The execution of
the subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. During negotiations agreement was
reached with the Government that it should provide all local funds to WA
as an equity contribution.
H. Project Implementation
3.21     The present status of project preparation can be summarized as
follows: (i) preliminary design has been prepared for the water
distribution and sewage systems and final design will be completed ahead
and in consonance with the works to be executed; and (ii) final design
has been completed for the sewage treatment works, for which one contract
would be awarded for civil works and equipment supplies and installation.
3.22     For the implementation of the project the WA has established a
separate project management and construction supervision unit (PMCS)
which has also been responsible for the preparation of the project.
During project implementation the PMCS would be assisted by engineering
consultants for (i) project management; (ii) tender evaluation and
preparation of contract documents; (iii) finalization of detailed
engineering and review of contractors' drawings; and (iv) supervision of
construction works and material and equipment supply and installation.
These consultant services will be provided by the consulting firms
undertaking the engineering design. The WA is in the process of
acquiring land for the sites of the sewage treatment works, and expects
this to be completed by end 1984. Based on past experience this should
pose no problem.
3.23     A master bar chart for project implementation has been completed
(Chart 1) and detailed CPM networks for individual contracts will be
prepared by respective contractors.   A project monitoring and reporting
system including selected financial performance indicators (Annex 1,
Table 4) was discussed and agreed upon during project appraisal.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the WA should prepare
quarterly progress reports to be sent to the Bank, commencing from the
first quarter of 1986.
3.24     An analysis of the project implementation schedule, which covers
the period 1985-1989, shows that: (i) the execution of the sewage
treatment works is on the critical path and invitation of tenders should
take place in early 1985; (ii) the trunk mains would be executed



- 19 -
concurrently with the treatment works; and (iii) the execution of the
secondary sewage systems would, in the early stage of project
implementation, concentrate on the Amman and Upper Wadi Abdoun drainage
areas and in the later stage on the Baqa'a Valley and Wadi es Sir areas.
Projected population coverage by sewer connections during the project
implementation period is shown in Annex 1, Table 2.
3.25     The WA has sewer regulations which require properties to be
connected once the service has become available. This may pose some
financial difficulty for the lower income group but based on previous
experience from the Amman area less than 2Z of the beneficiaries may need
financial assistance. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
WA would, if required, assist in making adequate financial arrangements
to enable low income families to be connected to the sewage system.
3.26     The unaccounted-for water in the Amman area remains high despite
efforts being made on water meter replacements and distribution system
rehabilitation. The operational control for the various distribution
zones is well developed and fairly accurate data are available on water
distributed and water sold. Proper actions are being taken and the WA is
expected to allocate sufficient funds and manpower resources and to
engage consultant assistance to enable a reduction in unaccounted-for
water to a target level of 25Z by 1990. The WA is preparing a program
for achieving this target and progress will be monitored through periodic
progress reports.
3.27     During negotiations assurances were obtained from the WA that
within six months following the closing date of the loan it will prepare
and submit to the Bank a project completion report reviewing the planned
objectives and achievements of the project including costs and benefits
derived and performance and contribution of all parties associated with
project execution and system operation.
I. Procurement
3.28     Proposed contracts and their respective cost estimates (base
costs) are shown in the table below:



- 20 -
Procurement Method   1/
Proiect Element                  ICB     LCB      Other     Total
-     US$ Million
Water Distribution Network           1.56    2.56               4.12
(1.00)  (1.64)             (2.64)
Sewage Systems                      25.02    6.25              31.27
(15.88)  (4.04)            (19.92)
Treatment Works                     10.42      -               10.42
(6.74)    -                (6.74)
Operational Equipment                0.38      -                0.38
(0.38)                     (0.38)
Consulting Services                   -        -      1.43      1.43
-       -     (0.32)    (0.32)
Total                           37I 8.81    1.43           47.62
(24.00)  (5.68)  (0.32)   (30.00)
I/  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Bank.
3.29     It is estimated that 15 civil works and equipment supply
contracts would be subject to ICB and would have an aggregate value of
about 802 of total costs. Equipment supply contracts estimated to cost
more than US$550,000 and civil works contracts estimated to cost more
than US$1,400,000 will be procured through International Competitive
Bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The Borrower intends
to employ a domestic consulting firm in association with a foreign firm
under Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with
Bank guidelines for use of consultants. Other equipment supply and civil
works contracts with an aggregate cost not exceeding US$2,000,000 and
US$7,000,000 respectively would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory. For material and
equipment to be procured under ICB a domestic preference of 15Z or the
import duty whichever is lower would be used for the purposes of bid
evaluation. Documents and awards for all contracts under ICB would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. It is anticipated that a foreign
contractor will be awarded the contract for the sewage treatment works
which would represent about 23Z of total project costs.
3.30     For all civil works contracts expected to take more than one
year, allowance for price increases is considered desirable. The
Government has, because of poor experience with price adjustment
provisions, passed regulations to discourage their inclusion in
construction contracts. However, assurances were obtained at



- 21 -
negotiations that the WA should for civil works contracts expected to
take longer than 24 months allow for the inclusion of a price adjustment
provision for major materials with administrative prices (cement and
fuel).
J. Disbursement
3.31     Statistical evidence in the Bank shows that disbursements for
the water supply and sewerage sector in the EMENA region extend over an
eight year period. Completion of the proposed project is scheduled for
December 31, 1990 and taking into account the status of project
preparation and the relative efficiency of the implementing agency it is
reasonable to assume that the loan will be fully disbursed, including
payments of retention monies, by December 31, 1991. In order to expedite
disbursements, a revolving fund of $1.5 million (equivalent on average to
about three months disbursements) will be opened by the Government; this
will be replenished on the basis of standard documentation for eligible
reimbursable expenditures. The implementation schedule from which the
disbursement schedule is derived, includes a very large time contingency
over that recommended by the WA. A disbursement period of seven and a
half years is about the same as the regional profile for water supply and
sewerage projects. A forecast of disbursements is shown in Annex 1,
Table 5.
3.32     The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million would be disbursed as
follows:
Amount               Percent of
US$Million          Expenditures
Category   Description                 Equivalent           to be Financed
1.       Equipment and Material,          2.4             lOOZ of foreign
Supplies and Installaticn                        expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures.
2.       Civil Works                     24.1             lO0Z of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
3.       Consultant Services              0.3             100X
4.       Unallocated                       3.2
TOTAL T3I



- 22 -
3.33     The extension of the water supply and sewage systems in the Greater
Amman area is a continuous process and contracts are awarded according to
local procurement procedures. For such contracts retroactive financing for
expenditures incurred after JuLy 1, 1984 is recommended for an amount of up to
US$3.0 million equivalent, which represents 10% of total Bank loan.
Disbursements would be made against standard documentation except for
contracts below US$10,000 equivalent to be claimed under statements of
expenditures.



- 23 -
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Organization and Management
4.01     The WA, created in December 1983 under Law No. 34 of 1983, has
been assigned wide responsibility for water resources management and for
the provision of water supply and sewerage services. It is an autonomous
agency reporting to the Prime Minister's office, enjoying independent
financial and administrative status. It has a twelve-member Board of
Directors, of which ten are ex-officio and two are from the private
sector. The Board is chaired by the Prime Minister. Headquarters in
Amman are managed by a President and a Secretary General who deputizes
for him. Both positions are appointed by the Council of Mlinisters. The
WA's organization is expected to develop in keeping with the gradual
taking over of the functions and staff of all water agencies in Jordan.
The present organization which is still tentative is shown on Chart 2.
The headquarters in Amman has the following departments: Water Supply
Operations, Sewerage Operations, Finance and Aocouuting, Administration,
Water Resources Management, Planning and Project Implementation.
Operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage is carried out in
three regional offices, each under a manager, but supervised by related
headquarters departments. The regional offices are also subject to
control by Water Councils composed of representatives from the public and
private sectors.
4.02     The WA has already taken over the Amman Water and Sewerage
Authority (AWSA), previously responsible for water supply and sewerage in
the municipality of Anman, the Water Supply Corporation (WSC), previously
responsible for bulk water supply and for water supply and sewerage in
areas outside of Amman and the Jordan Valley, the water resources branch
of the Natural Resources Authority (NRA), the water department of the JVA
- previously responsible for developing water resources and providing
water supply in the Jordan Valley - and the municipal water supply
departments within the Greater Amman Area. Some 300 municipal water
supply departments that still operate their own systems, will be
transferred to the WA on a phased basis before the end of 1985.
4.03     The number of the WA's staff engaged in water supply and
sewerage operations is about 3,000, composed principally of about equal
numbers of employees taken over from the WSC and AWSA. This is
equivalent to about 12 employees per one thousand connections served
which is reasonable given the fact that the WA's responsibilities are
spread over the whole country and that the population density outside
Amman is low. In addition, another 750 employees have been added to the
WA in conjunction with its takeover of the functions of the water



- 24 -
resources branch of the NRA.
4.04     Through the creation of the WA, staff from the different
organizations are brought together to work in consolidated units and a
number of previously overlapping functions are being eliminated.   While
this will contribute to increased productivity, additional staff would
still have to be recruited to operate new systems being or to be built
and by end-1989 when this project is to be completed, the WA staff is
projected to reach about 5,000.
B. Institutional Development
4.05     Institutional assistance is being provided to the WA by the Bank
under the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project (Loan 2213-JO) and by the USAID, with
whom the Bank is cooperating closely. Bank funds under Loan 2213-JO will
be used to engage a management advisor to assist the WA to develop its
organizational structure, establish staffing and training needs, develop
an appropriate management information system and propose personnel
policies. A technical advisor has already been engaged to assist the WA
to improve operating and maintenance practices, to set up a data
collection system for project planning purposes, and to prepare major
projects. A study is also being undertaken for the design of appropriate
tariff structures with recommendations to be made on feasible tariff
levels, taking into account the need for water conservation, the-
affordability to the poor, and the generation of adequate revenues to
allow the WA to remain financially viable.
4.06     USAID's assistance is being provided through two projects for
improvement of water supply and sewerage services in the city of Irbid
and the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa (cofinanced by the Bank), and through
the provision of technical assistance.   The USAID funds are being made
available for the development of training programs including the
provision of physical facilities and for the engagement of a financial
advisor to assist the WA to develop its accounting and financial
management systems. Under the technical assistance program support has
been provided to three local consulting firms engaged by the NPC/WSC for
the design of water supply and sewage systems in ten cities, eight of
which were included in the Eight Cities Project.
C. Staffing and Training
4.07     The WA's salary levels for its technical staff are competitive,



- 25 -
and attracting and retaining qualified technical staff do not pose a
problem. However, for financial staff the salary levels are
substantially lower and there is a general shortage of qualified
accountants in Jordan. The issues related to salary structure and other
personnel policies will be addressed by the Management Advisor (para
4.05).
4.08     The WA has an ongoing training program financed largely by the
USAID.  The p'rogram provides for training of managerial and professional
staff abroad and operating staff at local institutions. The financial
advisors are providing on-the-job training to the accounting staff in
implementing a public utility accounting system. Several facilities
exist in Jordan-the Amman Polytechnic Institute, the Vocational Training
Corporation, the University of Jordan and the Yarmouk University--which
now provide training for technicians in civil, mechanical, electrical and
chemical engineering.  Programs have been or are being developed for
training in water supply and wastewater engineering and specifically for
sewage treatment plant operators, in view of the number of plants to be
commissioned in the near future.
4.09     The USAID has, based on a study of  the overall training
requirements for the sector, prepared a proposal for a long term training
program which is satisfactory. This has been incorporated in its "Water
Systems and Services Management Project" and sufficient funds have been
provided for its implementation.
D. Billing and Collection
4.10     The WA bills some of its large volume customers in its Amman
operations on a monthly basis and residential consumers quarterly. The
consumers outside Amman are on a two month billing cycle.  The billing
for Aunan is fully computerized and operated by the WA's staff, while
that outside Amman is done by a service bureau and some billing is done
manually. The WA is planning to expand its own computer facilities to do
all its billing in-house by the end of 1985.
4.11     The WA's accounts receivable represent about four months of
sales and can be improved. The WA's management is devising systems to
provide incentives for improvements in bill collection. Progress in
reducing the proportion of outstanding receivables would be monitored
throughout project implementation (Annex 1, Table 4).



- 26 -
E. Accounting
4.12     The WA's accounting system for Amman follows the standard public
utility format, is on an accrual basis, and is reasonably well kept; that
outside Amman is on a cash basis, as prescribed for government agencies.
Although these accounts may be readily translated into the more generally
used utility format, they are not entirely satisfactory from an operating
point of view. The WA recognizes this weakness and has decided to extend
the accrual system to its entire operations. The system will be
computerized and, through appropriate coding, will produce accounts to
satisfy both the government-prescribed system and the public utility
format with accruals.
4.13     The financial advisor (para. 4.06) has already prepared a manual
of accounts for implementation in early 1985. Meanwhile the accounting
personnel are being trained. Implementation will be monitored through
periodic progress reports.
F. Audit
4.14     The WA's Amman operations have been annually audited by a local
iiAependent auditing firm. The audit reports have been of acceptable
quality and prepared in sufficient detail. The operations outside Amman
have until now been subject to a system of expenditure control and final
audit by the Government Auditing Department. Since the accounting system
of all the WA's operations will be converted into a standard public
utility format beginning in 1985, assurances were obtained from the WA
under the Bank loan for the Eight Cities Project that (i) from fiscal
1985 onwards all the WA's accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and experienced in public utility
accounting systems; (ii) the audited financial statements and the
auditors report would be forwarded to the Bank within six months after
the end of each fiscal year; and (iii) for 1984, the Government's
Auditing Department would continue to audit the WP's accounts for its
operations outside Amman and that copies of its audit report and
financial statements would be forwarded to the Bank within six months
after the end of the fiscal year. It was agreed to repeat these
conditions in the proposed loan.



- 27 -
G. Insurance
4.15     The WA  carries insurance with a Jordanian insurance company
which follows the general guidelines regarding insurance for a Government
agency. These primarily relate to workmen's compensation and third party
liability for vehicle and equipment operators. In view of the WA's
expanding operations, the adequacy of the insurance coverage would be
reviewed periodically.



- 28 -
V. FINANCE
A. Past Performance and Present Position
5.01     The financial position of the WA has to be interpreted in the
context of the past performance of those organizations (AWSA and WSC) it
has taken over. It reflects the nationwide scope of its operations, the
scarcity of water which makes it imperative to protect sources and to
treat and where feasible to recycle effluents, the low average
consumption levels, the locational mismatch between water sources and
consumption centers which necessitates the transportation of water over
long distances and steep gradients, and the relatively high construction
costs.
5.02     The WA derives most of its revenues from water and sewerage
charges based on metered water consumption. In addition, the WA also
collects a one-time sewerage connection fee equal to 25X of the annual
rental value of the property and a 42 annual tax on the same rental value
for twenty years. For small communities without a piped water supply and
for a substantial nomadic population, the WA provides a tanker supply or
a free supply from water points for which the actual cost is up to ten
times that in the larger centers. For reasons of equity and
affordability, the Government assumes a portion of this cost. On this
basis, the WA's net revenues have been sufficient to cover its operating
costs, debt service and a small portion of its investment costs.
5.03     At the end of 1983 the WA had a current ratio of 2.6 and a
debt/equity ratio of 24/76 which reflects the significant role of the
Government in the financing of the WA's facilities.
B. Tariff-Cost Recovery
5.04     The WA's tariffs are proposed by its Board of Directors and
subject to approval by the Council of Ministers. In the past, water
tariffs in its Amman and non-Amman urban operations were slightly
different, and these tariffs were high. Annex 1, Table 6 provides
detailed information on existing tariffs. The different tariffs are
being maintained for the time being but subject to recommendations to be
made in the proposed tariff study (para. 4.05) the WA may introduce a
uniform tariff for all its operations. Water tariffs in its piped supply
operations which average about JD 0.264 per cubic meter are adequate and
in line with the cost of these sertices, while the cost of providing
tanker supply and free water point service is partially supported by the
Government.



- 29 -
5.05     Based on the current system of sewerage charges, the WA's
average revenue is about JD 0.230 per cubic meter, which is financially
adequate. Such charges are generally less than the costs  Laintain
cesspool installations. The proposed tariff study will include the
determination of appropriate sewerage charges for cost recovery and the
means for collecting them which may be through a combination of tariffs,
user charges and levies. While the original study would have covered
only the operations of the former WSC, its scope has now been revised to
include the WA's entire water supply and sewerage operations. The study
will be carried out by the WA's Financial Advisor with consultant
assistance and the results of the study are expected to be submitted to
the Bank for review by no later than December 31, 1985, following which
appropriate tariff structures and water and sewerage charges will be
implemented.
C. The WA's Sources and Application of Funds
5.06     The table below shows the estimated sources and applications of
funds for the WA for the period 1984-1989.
FY1984-1989
JD         US$ ,
(Millions)---
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                   64.24      173.45        22
Government Contribution                    98.57      266.14        33
Customer Contributions                      6.29        16.98        2
Loans                                     127.61      344.55        43
Total                            2 7180.12 
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditures                      240.26      648.70        81
Debt Service                               55.50      149.85        19
Increases in Working Capital                0.95        2.57
Total                            29.1         8QQ



- 30 -
5.07     The WA's investments during the period would be substantial,
whereas the benefits would be derived over a long period. The WA will
also have to assume the liabilities associated with the substantial
capital expenditures on water resources development being undertaken by
the JVA. Funds generated from internal sources and customer
contributions would provide about 24X of the overall funds required of
which l9Z would be for debt service, leaving 5% towards capital
investments and increases in working capital.
D. Future Financial Performance
5.08     The financial forecasts for the proposed project as well as for
the WA as a whole and the assumptions on which they are based appear in
Annex 1, Tables 7-11, and Annex 2.
5.09     The period covered by the projections will be one of rapid
growth for the WA. By the year 1990 its volume of water sales is
expected to be 60Z higher than that of 1984, and with the new sewage
systems related volumes to be billed will be almost four times as much.
The volume of water supplied by tankers and at water points will only
increase slightly. The revenues from water sales would go up about 160Z
and the revenues from sewerage and the taxes collected for sewerage
services would go up about six times. In the same period operating
expenses would go up about 2.5 times. The difference between revenues
and expenses would leave a margin which would be sufficient for the WA to
meet its financial objectives. Agreement was reached under the Bank loan
for the Eight Cities Project that the WA will from fiscal year 1985
onwards (i) for its metered water services maintain or adjust tariffs to
provide sufficient revenues to cover its operating and maintenance
expenses (excluding depreciation), debt service or depreciation whichever
is higher and increases in working capital and to finance commencing in
fiscal year 1987 not less than 5X and from fiscal year 1989 onwards not
less than 10% of the average annual investment cost in each consecutive
three-year period comprising one actual and two forecast years; and (ii)
for its sewerage operations, implement a system of user charges, fe-s and
levies sufficient to cover full operating and maintenance cost (excLuding
depreciation) and debt service or depreciation whichever is higher. For
its water services by tankers and at water points, agreement was obtained
from the Government that it would compensate the WA for any deficit;
resulting from such operations. Agreement was also reached under t. e
Bank loan for the Eight Cities Project that the WA would provide th4
Bank, three months before the beginning of each fiscal year, with cc-pies
of its forecast budget for the fiscal year, financial projections fc- the
following two years as well as its proposals for adjustments in tari?fs.
It was agreed to repeat these conditions in the proposed loan.



- 31 -
5.10     In the period 1984-90, the WA's debt-equity ratio would vary
from 28:72 to 38:62, with debt peaking in 1987-88 at 41:59 which is very
satisfactory and also indicates the important role that the Government
will continue to play in sector financing. In the same period its assets
would grow about 2.5 times. Average water tariffs would have to go up
about 60S in this period, only slightly above the adjustment necessary
for inflation, which also confirms the adequacy of the present water
tariffs. Charges for sewerage would not have to grow as much because of
savings from economies of scale. The rate of return on net fixed assets
in operation would be about 5-62 during 1987-90 and should improve with
additional sewerage connections and with the introduction of measures to
reduce quantities of water consumed but not accounted for (para. 3.26).
The projected water supply and sewerage charges would be within the
customers ability and willingness to pay (paras. 6.02, 6.03). Internal
cash generation should cover debt service adequately.



- 32 -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Socio-Economic Analysis
6.01     The project alternatives and components selected represent the
most feasible and least-cost solutions at a discount rate of 102. The
phasing proposed and the design criteria used are appropriate. The
project would provide sewerage service in the Greater Amman area to about
150,000 urban poor, or about 30Z of the population which would benefit
from the project.
6.02     The benefits accruing from a modern sewage collection and
disposal system would be substantial but cannot be meaningfully
quantified. In assessing these benefits the reduction of the incidence
of waterborne infectious diseases and of the pollution of waters used for
various purposes, the improvements in the general aesthetic conditions
and in the quality of life, and the enhancement of opportunities for
economic development are all important factors. However, using the
revenues from sewerage as proxy and a minimum measure of the benefits
accruing from this project the rate of return would be about 82.
6.03     Additional related socio-economic benefits to be derived from
this project are as follows: (i) improved water supply and extended
sewage collection systems would result in enhanced hygenic standard and
subsequently have a favorable impact on general health conditions; (ii)
the reduction in cesspool effluents percolating into the ground would
enable the continued use of the groundwater source for domestic water
supply thus avoiding its replacement by a far more costly alternative;
and (iii) the provision of treated effluents to be used for irrigation
purposes will contribute to the agricultural development.
B. Average Incremental Costs
6.04     In Jordan the long-run average incremental cost (LRAIC) of water
at a discount rate of 10  varies between JD 0.370/m3 in areas where
water is locally available to JD 0.490/m3 for areas such as Amman,
where part of the water has to be pumped over long distances (e.g. from
the EGMC). At present more than 30Z of water sold is charged at the
highest block tariff, which exceeds the LRAIC. This confirms the present
appropriateness of the tariff levels and a willingness to pay for the
actual costs of the water.



- 33 -
C. Affordability
6.05     The water tariffs and sewerage charges as projected would not
impose any serious burden on even the lowest income segment. The lowest
quintile of average monthly household income in the Amman area is about
JD 108. Assuming an average household size of five persons and an
average per capita water consumption of 65 liters/day, the average water
and sewerage bill would be about JD 5.00/month, which represents about
4.62 of the household income. This is considered to be affordable. By
comparison, a household would pay up to JD 5 per month for emptying
cesspools alone.
D. Institution Building
6.06     The project will continue the Bank's assistance to Jordan in
reinforcing and strengthening the sector institution started under
previous credits and loans. Bank assistance in this and the Eight Cities
Project is particularly timely because of the recent creation of the WA,
which, in a pronounced way, demonstrates the Government's determination
to improve the management of the sector. The project will provide a
continuing opportunity to help develop the technical, financial and
managerial capabilities of the WA staff.
E. Project Risks
6.07     Major project risks, if any, would relate to: (i) initial
difficulties to be encountered in the development of the WA, which could
affect the timing for project implementation; and (ii) the possibility of
not achieving projected number of sewer connections that could affect the
WA's income and overall financial viability.
6.08     All necessary actions have been or will be taken in order to
assist the WA in its development for the timely completion of the project
such as the appointment of qualified staff, advisors and consultants.
Present trends indicate a willingness among the population to connect to
the sewage system when available which also in general provides cost
savings. An improved tariff structure would make related costs for the
water supply and sewerage services more affordable to the lower income
group and subsequently enable projected revenues to be realized. The
risks are considered to have been reduced to a reasonable level through
the precautionary measures undertaken.



- 34 -
VII.  AGREEMEN15 REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in
Chapters III though V of this report and subject to the condition of
effectiveness set forth in para. 3.20 the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$30.0 million to the WA for a tern of 15 years
including a three year grace period, at the standard variable interest
rate.



- 35 -
_-,   s            ANNEX  I
Table I of 12
KAsHEYrTE (IflOf OF Dlm_
GREATER ASIAN WA-ER SUPPLY *30 UISDRAE PRJECT
Ponulation and ilste Water Flows
A. POPULAT4O . M10001
1. Aawn                                     1.020               1.305              (1.305)"
Z. SuburOan Ring                               74                 250                 1621)
3. wadi as Sir                                 39                  6Z                (171)
4. Suweileh                                    31                                      (79)
S. Baqata Cairo                                4S ...AI           .4
TOTAL                                                       JJM                &&.au
B. POPULATJUX DRAINAGE 2NES t'OOO)
1.   an
- Amman                                 1.020               1.305
- Suburban Ring                            74                 250
- upper wadi es Sir                        2S                  46
- Southerm Suwelleh                     .                      14
TOTAL                                             JAZZ
2. Baqa'a valley
- Bqaa camp                                4                   45
- Northern Suweilih                        22                  30
- Ain el Basha                              4                   6
- Safut                                    -1                  _2
TOTAL                                      7l                  A
3. Wadi es Sir
- Lower  bdi es Sir                        14                  21
C. WuA WE WiTER FLOS a
(liter per capita and day. lcd)
1. Aman                                        a5                  g5
2. Suburban Ring                               95                 1OS
3. Wadi es Sir                                 7S                  aS
4. Suwe1ieh                                    60                  70
S. Baqa'a Cam                                  60                  70
0. POPtLATrD  COWEL 
t,Arnan
- Arman             nos.              969.000           1.253.000
2                    95                  96
- Suburban Ring     nos.               70.000             240.000
S                    95                  96
- Wadi es Sir       nos.               23.000              4S.000
2                    92                  98
- Southern Suweileh nos.                8.000              14.000
X                    9Z 9t
TOTAL        nos.                   ,tL* nn n*                Dn
S                           94                  96
2. Baqa'a valley
TOTAL        nos.            nnnh
S                           94                  95
3. Wadi es Sir
Total        nos.                       LIBI               il
S                           92                  98
E.        PMTe,UTRFO
(U per day)
1. A_nn                                     l . z2e           149 .040
2. Raqa'a Valley                            3.780               S,110
3. Wal es Sir                                 975               1.78S
j/ Figures within parenthesis indicate estimated saturated population.
2J The flows include residential. anicipal. comerial and industrial contributions.
July 30. 1934
Doc. 0481W
Disk 0031W



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2 of 12
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER MMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Population Connected to the Sewage Syste
198       1984       1985       198                           im8 198 189 19
A. AMMAN DRAINAGE ZONE
1. Total Population:
- Amn3an                      744        775        808       842        877      913        952      1.020
- Suburban Ring                29         33         37        43         49       56         65         74
- Upper Wadi es Sir             19        19         20        21         22       23         24         25
- Southern Suweileh                       _ 7       _a                    8 --      a               9    9
TOTAL                            ___ a31                         9.nna             1.95       LJ.ZA
2. Population Connected to
Sewage System:
- Amna               nos.     558        597        663       740        789      840        895       969
(2)      (75)       (77)      (82)       (88)       (90)     (92)       (94)      (9S)
- Suburban Ring      nos.        -         8         30        38         44       52         61         70
(2)        -        (23)      (82)       (88)       (90)     (92)       (94)      (95)
- Upper Wadi es Sir nos.         -         4          9        12         15        19        22         23
(2)        -        (23)      (44)       (57)       (70)     (81)       (92)      (92)
- Southern Suweileh nos.         -         1          3         5          6        7          8          8
(2)        -        (14)       44)       (571     J70)    .(1SI        J921       (92)
MTAL         nos.                  1                   2927      5 m                 9
(2)      (70)       (73)      (81)       (87)       (89)     (92)       (94)      (94)
B. WADI ES SIR DRAINAGE ZONE
1. Total Population                10        11         11        12         12        13        13         14
2. Population Connected to
Sewage System:      nos.       -          -          -         -         10       11         12         13
(2)        -          -         -          -        (80)     (85)       (92'      (92)
C. BAOA'A VALLEY DRAINAGE ZONE
1. Total Population:
- Baqa'a Camp                  45         45         45        45         45       45         45         45
- Northern Suweileh             18        18         19        19         20       21         21         22
- Ain el Basha and Safut        A          4          4         4          5        5         .          A
TOTAL                   A      Z             k5                             Z a        2 )I     Zz
2. Population Connected to
Sewage System:    nos.         -         -          -         -         47       57         67         68
(          -          -         -          -        (67)     (80)       (94)      (94)
0. TOTAL PROJECT AREA
1. Total Population              876        912        952       994      1,038    1,084      1,134      1,214
2. Population Connected to
Sewage System:    nos.      558        610       705        795        911      986      1.065     1.151
(2)      (64)       (67)      (74)       (80)      (88)      (91)       (94)      (95)
July 31, 1984
Doc. 0481W
Disk 0031W



- 37 -
ANNE  1
Table 3 of 12
H*5M94!  WIMCGM*  OF 8OROAN
KRAATET AMAN MM  SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE POJET
Gct Est1=tec
(JD Thousands)
Foreign Currency
Exbenditurm-
PflamELr CllOMMEM                                                                                            Toa   198 1 9 4t 
A. IANAN DRAQ;E 21NE
1. Water Distribution System:         -         s0.0       s5.0            -         -           -       106.0      70          70.0
2. Sewage System                     -          flILI    1SOO--                                        4- 00.0      70       3150.0
Sub-Total A                    _       300.J0      1S50L0            --                          4ficl.0      70       3220.0
B. BDAOA VALLEY DRAINAGE  ONE
1. Water Distribution System'         -           -            -        200.0     200.0       40.0       440.0      70        308.0
2. Sewage System                                  -      1.700.0      1,700.0     400.0          -     3.800.0      70       2.660.0
3. Sewage Treatment works
- Civil Works                      -        200.0       693.5        493.5        -           -     13D7.0       40         554.8
- Equiment                         -           -        200.0        168.0        -           -       368.0     100         368.0
4. Land Acquisition                                                    17.5         - -_  -               17.5       -
Sub-Total I                  I5      200*              .5       2.56.L5  6i0.L0          MA      6-012.5LS    65       3.90.
UADf FS STR DRAGE 20WE
1. Water Distribution Systen"         -           -           -         300.0     300.0       50.0       650.0      70        455.0
2. Sewage System                      -           -        350.0        350.0      50.0          -       750.0      70        52S.0
3. Sew   Treatment works
- Civil Works                      -        100.0       487.5        405.S        -          -        993.0      40        397.2
- Equipment                        -           -        150.0        142.0        -           -       292.0     100         292.0
4. Land Acquisition                 J.Z                                  -    -                           1.2        -  .
Sub-Total C                      18.2       100.0       97B  15 17             350.     0      0    2,70f2       62       1.66L2
n.  DT[AL BASE COSTS A. A3C              j,2       3j fl     I     a  3 LU             Ua   23].LZ                      66   &     ILI
E. PHYSICAL CNTUNGECrES (tOX)             -        335.0       513.1        375.9      95.0         9.0    1,328.0       -  -      78.0
F.         A
Operational Equipment
and Water Meters                     -         50.0        50.0           -         -           -       100.0     100         100.0
G. CSIJLTALT SERVICES                   65.0        lS.0        230.0       169.0      43.0         4.0      526.0       -         120.0
H. TOTLrAD+EL                                                LSZL           JEIU   + l   An      JILA   J2LZ6L2        65   9 2=
I.    1CE CONTNGEIS                      1.9       27S.6       848.9        912.0     309.6        37.3    2.38i.1      65       1.542.0
J. GRN.D TOTAL J                       3IL       LiULA       LZZLI e         MA    J.6            MUC   a.LrM3           65 n    ..SZAn
.1  The water distribution systems under the Baqa'a valley and Wadi es Sir Orainage Zones covers the nmunicipalities-of Swe1ileh and Wadi
es Sir and includes some smaller service reservoirs.
July 31. 1984
Ooe. 0481W
01sk 0031W



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4 of 12
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Monitoring Criteria For Water Authority Operations
1986     to      1990.1/
I.  Technical
Water produced (MCM/yr)
Water sold (MCM/yr):
Domestic
Industrial
Bulk Water
Unaccounted-for water (Z)
Water Surcharged for Sewerage (MCMlyr)
No. of water connections
No. of sewage connections
II. Financial and Institutional
Average bulk tariff (JD/m3)
Average retail tariff (JD/m3)
Sewerage surcharge tariff (JD/m3).
Debt service coverage
Operating expense/cubic meter of
water sold (JD)
Operating expense/cubic meter of
water surcharged for sewerage (JD)
Accounts receivable at end of year
No. of employees:
Water
Sewerage
Total
1/ Projected figures will be provided during 1985, whereafter these will be
compared with acutal data.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5 of 12
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Us$ Million)
Bank
Fiscal Year           Disbursement               Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter             in Quarter                 At End of Quarter
1985
Third Quarter               0.1                            0.1
Fourth Quater               0.5                            0.6
1986
First Quarter               1.3                            1.9
Second Quarter              1.8                            3.7
Third Quarter               2.1                            5.8
Fourth Quarter              2.3                            8.1
1987
First Quarter               2.5                           10.6
Second Quarter              2.7                           13.3
Third Quarter               1.8                           15.1
Fourth Quarter              1.8                           16.9
1988
First Quarter               1.8                           18.7
Second Quarter              1.8                           20.5
Third Quarter               0.8                           21.3
Fourth Quarter              0.8                           22.1



- 40 -
ANNX 1
Table 5 of 12
Page 2 of 2
Fiscal Year           Disbursement              Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter            in Quarter                 At End of Quarter
1989
First Quarter              0.8                           22.9
Second Quarter             0.8                           23.7
Third Quarter              0.7                           24.4
Fourth Quarter             0.6                           25.0
1990
First Quarter              0.3                           25.3
Second Quarter             0.2                           25.5
Third Quarter              0.3                           25.8
Fourth Quarter             0.2                           26.0
1991
First Quarter              0.5                           26.5
Second Quarter             0.5                           27.0
Third Quarter              0.7                           27.7
Fourth Quarter             0.7                           28.4
1992
First Quarter              0.8                           29.2
Second Quarter             0.8                          30.0



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6 Of 12
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CURRENT WATER AND SEWERAGE TARIFFS
Operations Outside Amman
Water Tariffs (Urban Areas)
Bulk Water Supply                    -  JD .085 per m3
Metered Retail Consumption per month:
0 -  5 m3                           -  JD .100 per m3
6 - 15 m3                           -  JD .120  "  *
16 - 25 m3                           -  JD .300  "  "
Over 25 m3                           -  JD .400  "  "
Universities                         -  JD .300  "  "
Connection Fee                       -  JD2.000
Water Tariffs (Rural Areas)
Water Distribution Points            -  JD .160 per m3
By Tankers:
5 -  6 m3 capacity                  -  JD 2.500 per tanker
10 - 12 "     "                      -  JD 3.500 to JD 5.500 per tanker
Distribution of water at desert points is free.
Sewerage Tariffs
Sewer Surcharge                      -  JD .030 per m3
Contribution to construction         -  4% per annum of rental value
over 20 years
Connection fee                       -  25% of rental value



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6 of 12
Page 2 of 2
AMNAN OPERATIONS
Water Tariffs
Metered Retail Consumption per billing cycle (3 months):
1 -  20 m3                          -  JD .150 per m3
21 -  40 m3                          -  JD .250"  "
41 - 100 m3                          -  JD .400  *  "
Over 100 m3                          -  JD .500  "  "
Sewerage Tariffs
Sewerage Surcharge                   -  3D .030 per m3
Contribittion to Construction        -  4% per annum of rental value
over 20 years
Connection Fee                       -  25Z of rental value



- 43 -
1I4SHDIIT KINGI=X UW DRIMN                     ANNEX I
-~  ~~ ~                      ~                Table 7 of 12
CTREK ANA UATEt SUPPLY & SlVERAX   KR)11J
LNmE AND EXPENDIt1RE SrATiJi
CPREATER AMMAN
LATER OPaT1I
19UZ     1983     1984      1965     1966      1987     1988      1989     199u
UATEl PROLMX  (cMM)         25.30    27.60    30.10    33.140    36.70    41.U0    44.U0    47.9U    52.2U
UNACCOUNTED (PERCENT)         44        41       39        38       37        37       35        34       33
ATR2 SOLD (M)               14.20    16.30    18.40    20.70    23.10    25.80    28.60    31.6o    35.00
ND. or 03MElS              67,050   71.450   7b,300   81.160   86, LU   91,560   97.130  102,830  LU .830
AV&RACE RATE (J.1/al)        .270      .346     .362      .357     .543     ..54      .562     .558      .599
--- ~JD MILLI= -
REVUU
UATER S1AS                   3.83     5.64      6.67     7.39    12.55      4. U5    16 07    17.o3      O.97
GDIN IWHL                     .22       .26      .29      .29       .30      .S2       .33      .34       .36
MAL 8EVEIF                   4.05     5.90      6.96     7.68    12.85    14.37    16.40    17 97    I1.33
Meg
A:lAIES                      1.40     1.53      1.66     1.81      1.98     Z.L5      2.35     2.56      Z.79
FOWII                        1 53     1 79      2.18     2.5L     3.L4      4.33     5.48      6.86     b 45
CHECAJIS                      .        1 .       .02      .02       .03      .Ii7     i.3       .22       .33
tINTWICE                      .91     1.UU      1.08     1.,LS     1.25     1.40      1.53     1.66     1.61
A"ISRATIN                     .LS      .L6       .18      .19       .ZL      .23       .25      .27      .3U
ea                                                    ---        ne-       a------ --
TIOTAL EXP80ITURES           4.00     4.49      5.12     5.,L      6.64     8. 1     9.74    U.57    13 68
INCrE 1BEFDCEMPREC1AT10N      .05     1.41      1.64     l 97      6.21     a.l9     6.66      6.4u     7.o5
LESS: DXRECLT[ON              .46      .84       .88      .41      2.(A     3.12     3.53      3.62     3 99
INCXKE  FORE DCrF1T          (.41)     .57       .96     1.06     3.33      3.u7     3.13      2.58     3.f6
ESS: DI llESf                 .87       .90     1.35     1.38     4.25      4.42     4.72      4.45     4.93
NET INDE (IDS)              (L.28)    (33)    (.39)    (.32)    (-92)   (L.35)   (i 59)   (1.87)   (L.27)
-           -         -       _in                                    m
WA? Ta=S MAY DIIR DUE 1M E1OltWNC



- 44 -
IASHEMTrE KfGGUM (P JORDW                    ANNEX 1
-                           Table 8 of 12
QUFTEPl AMhAN WA  SlUPLY & SewtERAE pET=
l.HGE ANU EXPkIfTURE SRIr
GREATER AMMAN
SEWEE  PERATIONS
1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     ).988    1989     1990
SEWER CZ4NECrIONS         24,650   30 030   43,500   58,400   75,800   82 400   89,40D   96,700  103,4UU
DIlABLE SEWAGE FLOW (MOM)    7.88    9.61    11.59    13.87    16.40    19.35    22.59    26.23    30.45
AVERACE RATE JD/M3          .030     .030     .043     .U55     .114    .126      .143     .L49    .185
-----I MILLLONS---
REVM ES
:PiRATIW  REVElNE            .24      .29      .50      .77     1.87     2.44     3.22     3.91     5.64
IER INiOME                  1.29     1.30     2.03     1.97     1.84     1.72     1.70     1.24      .9U
7U=L REVENUES               1.53     1.59     2.53     2.74     3.71     4.16     4.92     5.15     6.54
SAIARIES                     .86      .94     1.02     1.1L     1.21     1.32     1.44     1.57     1.71
IOWEHL                        L5     .16       .19     .22       .26      .31      .36      .42      .49
CEHDCALS                     .05      .05      .06      .07      .09     .10       .1L2     .14      .'6
KADUrEANCE                  .16       .17      .21     .24       .25      .26      .27      .73      .'4
A1~IIAll1R&TION              .06      .06      .07      .07      .08      .U8      .09     .LO       .10
1L EXPEDrfUPES              1.28     1.38     1.55     1.71     1.89     2.07     2.28     2.96     3.20
LtI BEFBORE DEPRECIATIO     .25       .Z1      .98     1.02     1.82     2.09     2.64     2.19     3.34
LESS: DCPILATINt             .26      .29      .35     .40       .43      .45      .48      .91      .96
INCOM  BEFLE TINrEr         (.Ol)    (.Us)    .63       .62     1.39     1.b4     2.16     1.28     2.36
IND=                         .28      .40      .72     .71       .69      .66      .60      .36     .62
NET INDNSE (LOSS)           (.29)    (.48)    (.09)    (.0U)     .70      .98     1.56      .90     1.76
DTE:lUrAIS NAY DIFFER IUE 1[) RDINDING



- 45 -
IiASrrM KDXU  OF JO                          ANNEX 1
.__ .............. _ Table 9 of 12
GRMM AMKN WAT5 SUPPLY 6 SIWIE  1OM=
INOI AD SLOUflN         EMW
1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     19b7     1988     1989     199U
UWTER PWIE  (MaM           59.97    75.40    81.14    8b.79    92.64    99.43   105.UZ   111.33   118.25
UNACCOUNTED (PERCENT)         4b       41       39       38       37       37       35       34        33
TAWIR SALES(IC)             3.83     2.11     2.20     2 30     2.41     2.52      2.64     2 77     2.91
[MAIL SALES (1C)           32.67    44.51    49.42    53.56    58.07    b2.A8    b7.97    73.40    79.34
IMIAME SZ UCE (C.)          7.88     9.61    11.59    15.56    18.29    24.61    31.24    38 19    45.99
ND. OF CXiIIErICusS-VAT51   1l 080  218,330  231,070  241 340  251,950  261. 50  274,730  359.640  3U5,050
NO. OF COXliDONS-SEME    24,650   30.030   43,500   58.400   75,800   89 4A   107.700  126.749  145 680
TANKUL RATE(JDA/2)          .065     .070     .078    .086       .091    .096      .102     .107     .111
AVE.V4AE RETAIL(JD/dMA)     .208     .239     .264     .267      .367     .376    A4W       .408     .431
AVE.SEUER SIRCHARGZE(JD/O)    .03D    .030    .043    .U73    .128        .158     .9L    .218    .253
AVL. SEW. PRE(JD/Oi)        .20L     .176     .230     .210      .238     .238     .W8      .266    .286
----.1) KU.Y.O
DEVEWES
TkNKI03 SALES                .25      .15      .L/      .20      .22       .24      ..17    .3U       .33
IHABIL SALES                0.80    10.64    13.06    14.28    21.32    23.62    27.22    29.97    34.18
SEWIEAQ SUIUUU;E             .24      .29      .50     L 14     2.34     3.89     6.2U     8.34    1L. uZ
JCER wIamE                  1.66     1.81     2.62     2.63     2.55     2.56     2.63      2.52     2.31
OOYT.SUBSIDY                1.61     2.07     2.5u     2.33     2.35     2.41     2.25      2.30     2.35
1XYAL REVJHIES             lO.55    14.96    18.85    20.57   2W.77    3Z.72    38.77    43.43    5U.79
UATER PURCHASES              .06      .06            -             -        -        -
SALARIES                    4.68     5.57     6.15     b.67     7.36     8.42     9.42    10.43    Ll.51
EX113U;Y                    3.00     3.43     4.0b     4.57     5.50     7.15     8.80    10.68    1.2.b
CEHUCAIS                     . 4      .18      .23      .25      .35      .45      .60      .77      .97
MINTi7mmaB                  1.81     2.12     2.40     2.60     2.81     3. 3     3.63     4.5U     4.9b
AMMrISM^A'TIM                .65      .81      .95     L.02     1.23     1.38     1.58      1. 78   2.03
"MLAL EXPENUURES           10.34    12.17    13.79    15.11    17.25    20.53    24.W3    28.16    32.35
2h(XIE RUIE DEPHECJTIOtl    .21      2.79     5.06     5.46    U.52    12.19    14 74    15.27    18.44
LES;&PEPURCITION            2.64     3.17     3.47     3.78     5.68     6.98     7.95     8 99     9.33
DINOn  BEUMR AREr          (2.43)    (.38)    1.59     1.o8     5.64     5.21     6.79     6.L      9.Lt
TESS: INrEESr               1. 52    1.82     2.74     2.73     5.56     5.70     7.50     7.66     8.71
NEr INfLE (LOSSES)         (3.95)   (2.20)   (1.15)   (L.05)    .08      (.49)    (.71)   (1.38)     .Wa
OfkBATEIN RATID             1.23     1.03      .92      .92      .80      .84      .52      .86       .b2
NMGElmIS rAY DUF  ME 1D XO)II



- 46 -
HAWsmfr  k 2  (F .M                                            ANNEX 1
Table 10 of 12
:EAT    I fhWA 11 SUlLY *. fAGAE NRWEr
SDUc A  ANLDIM OF FMI
1982     1.983    1984     1985     1986      1987     1968     1919     1990          1984-989
FISCAL YEIR INDLIS DOZEt0ER 31
SOURCS OF PUE
MM&RA S0WRCS
IEr OPRAT1C ILWE           (2.43)    (.38)    1.59      1.68     5 64     5.21     6.79      6.28     9.11 27.19
AIrIIPPZCAIQN               2.o4     3.L7      3.47     3.78     5.8a     6.98     7.95      8 99     9.33             37.u5
IUAL DI2BNALS2SW             .2I      2.79     5.06     5.46    11.52    12. 19    14.74     5. Z7    1844 14..
mV  lfly C1Th1UMIUQ         5.46      3.U3    L0.10 L  L5.      48.15    W. L7    8.LL       6.65     54.              95.57
CIUUE CCIEIumurLNS          .22       .32      .54      .65      .95      .96      1.91     1.25      .73              6.29
IXRRW=
LOMB                        2.21     7.07    12.29    16.2    19.45    14.74      6.17      Z.b3     1.32             71.29
4iHER tWamE                    -        -         -        -    39.22     4.Sb      7.98     4.56     3.48             56.3Z
MTALSOUkCES OF FUKS         S.11    U3.21    27.99    37.43   119.29    42.61    38.93    30.45    29.26              29b.72
-            -        --                         --
APPLItATmI  Or FUNL
CAiTIAL EXP0DLIJTRES        3.67     9.A8    24.23    33.97   110.16    32 51    24.32    15.06    11 41              240.2b
DUSREAE D)EEMSE)
IN *ORU;NC CAQPrAL          2.51      .61      (.45)    (.90)     .uI      .21       .71     1.37      .56               .95
*EE SERVII:E
INThRESr                    1.52     1.82      2.74     2.73     5.5b     5.70     7.50      7.66     b.71             31.90
ANCRTI2ATION                 .41      1.50     1.47     1.03     3.56     4.19     6.40      0.35     6.58             23.W
IurAL                        1.93     3.32     4.21     4.36     9.12     9.89    13.90    14.01    17.29              550U
IUTAL AIFPCTXltIN OF RNn    8.L1   13.21    27.,A    37.43   tL1.29    42.01    35.93    30.46    29.20              296.71
Ir  SERVICE CERGE (TIN       .L1       84      1.20     1.25     1.6     1.23      1.U6     10u9     1.07              7.10
NlMU -.EUrAS MAY DIFFIR WE 10 BOUDLi



- 47 -
Ensl        u    WJ                           ANNEX I
Table 11 of 12
GIEAIU  MM~t VAM  SMVIY & S8142Wh KILkr
o sLr h S  sizr
DUN1 SH13r
WA1U AU11WRfTY CA1KSLI3ATED
1982     1983     1984     19835    198b      L987     1968     1989     1990
-----.1 MHILLlONS-----
lA INDINC DECMR 31
ASSES
CSSL FLED ASSEM-WAIR       92.38    97.77   105.93   117.44   191.47   Z15.33   255.72   271.31   279.17
LFJS:IrECX4TQI-ATE         14.72    17.O   LS.72    19.1W    24.55    30.32    35.73    42.51    49.54
ICI FDX) ASSE1TS4A1R       77.66    80.17    90.21    98.34   166.92   185.U1   219.9   228.80   230.33
CROS FLIED ASSrS-SEW.       8.97    11 53    Lb.13    16.S3    7. 7    46.09    59.4Z    85.59    85.54
1ISS:0PRCIATION4-SE.        21.3     2.43     2.77      3.17     3.eU     4.61     6.35     8.56    IU.66
S r FMD ASSETS-S.           6.84     9.11    11.3b    12.96    13 67    41.28    53.07    77.03    77.ob
Wm IN PFaCUESs             1. "      16.12    24.59    45.05    60 (A    59.67    29.47      2.76     Z.bb
71bL 71100 ASSET5          Y9.49   105.40   126.16   156.35   260.63   256.16   302.53   306.59   310 69
CASH                        Z.46     2.89      3.35     3.46     3.27     2.94      2.41     2.63     2.94
DVEN1UR1S                   2.L0     2.64     2.71      2.82     2.90     3.02     3.12     3.73      3.8b
AIRUIS REIXVAKBE            4.14     4.69     4.40      3.95     4.52     4.97     5.81      6.47     6.93
WUML CUIr ASSEtrs           8.70    10.23    L0.47    10.24    1D.68    10.94    11.33    12.83    13.73
lUTAL ASSES               lDS.19   115.63   136.3   166.59   271. 3    297.10   313.86   321.42   324.42
LIASILUTIES
EDh1TY                     70.20    73.23    83.34    98.54   146.69   15b.46   166.96   :71.81    177.09
Dow=r3ED 74111Y            24.67    24.o7    24.67    24.67    24.67    A4.67    24.67    24.07    A4 b7
RE Dm EARNINCS            (13.01)  (L5.20)  (16.35)  (17.40)  (17.32)  (7.81)  (L8.52)  (l9.91)  (19.51)
cuERst  Dam uRITONs         1.73     2.0'      2.58     3.23     4..L     5.14     7..6    8.33       9.06
107AL EqJIrY               83.b0    b4.74    94.23   109.04   158.a2   168.56   178.19   184.90   L91.2
UN IE   LCT                21.33    26.94    37.60    50.16   104.64(  117 55   125.34   123.82   119.U
aRm LlMBDrlES
AMlUNS PAYASE               1.76     2.48      3.L6     3.83     4.27     4.31     4 W      4.12      4.47
LIJROr rAlUlrIT3            1.50      1.47     1.63     3.56     4.19     6.39     o 35     8.5t      9.59
ltSDUL CllIUIWI IAENIJrLTIEI  3.26   3.95      4.79     7.39     8.46    10.70    10.35    12.70    14.U6
1UmL.LIABILITILS          lO 19   115 63   136.t3   1bb 59   271.J2   297.10   313.67   32L.43   324..3
caIr UAOM                   2.67     L59       Lis      1.39     1.z6     12U    1.10     Lul          .9L
MT1  * rt RawD            20:80   24:76   28:72   31:69   39:61   41:59   41:59   40:60   38:62
RATE OF RETURN                                    3        3         6        5        5        4        6



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Rate of Return (Sewerage)
(JD Thousands)
YEARS           AMU=                 Li. nST0lL                               IUAiEr
-NFIErrS
1984                  -              77U.uU                  -              770.u             (770.00)
1985             419.52             2420.00             330.00             2750.00            (233U.48)
1986             9'.2.76            598O.00             510 00             649-0 0            (5547-24)
1987            1435.60             478U0.0             690.UI             5470.00            (4034.4(J)
1988            2167.00             1i30.00             90U0.0U            273o.0              (563 uu)
1989            2693.76              850.00             L5W0.0             2430.00              2b3.76
1990            3545.68             1000.00             1820 00            2820.00              725.ob
1991            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1820.00             1725.68
1992            3545.68                   -            1620.00             1820.00             1725 68
1993            3545.68                   -             1820.U0            182U.00             1725.ub
1994            3545.68                   -            1820.00             1820.00            1725.b6
1995            3545.68                   -             1820.W             1820.00             D7Z5.bb
1996            3545.68                   -            1820.00             1820.00            1725.68
1997            3545.68                   -            1820.00             1820.UD            1725.68
1998            3545.68                   -            1820.00             1820.00            1725 bb
1999            3545.68                   -            1820.00             1820.Uo            1725.o8
2000            3545.68                   -             1820.U0            1820.0U            1725b8
2001            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1m.UU               1725.W8
2002            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1820.U0             1725.66
2003            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1820.W              1725.u8
2U04            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1820.00             1725.66
2005            3545.68                   -             1820.U0            1820.W              1725.68
2006            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1820.u0             1725.66
2007            3545.68                   -             1820.O            1820.00             1725.68
2008            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1820.00             1725.68
2[09            3545.68                   -             1820.00            1820.0W             1725.68
2010            3545.68                   -            1820.00             1820.0U             1725.o8
E % RATE F RETURN IS:
8.01
....         A A1.A A....



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions Used In Financial Projections
General
Detailed income statements, balance sheets and cash flow
statements were prepared separately covering the different parts of WA's
water supply and sewage operations and are available in the project
files. The income statements for the proposed project and the
consolidated income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement of
overall WA operations have been included in the report. The same
assumptions apply to all the different parts.
Income Statement
Revenues from water and sewage tariffs are assumed to be
increased to meet over the projection period the proposed financial
covenants, i.e., water tariffs would be established so as to cover
operating expenses, debt service, or depreciation, whichever is higher
and working capital increases and provide 5Z beginning in FY87 and 10%
beginning in FY89 of the average annual investment costs in each
consecutive three-year period comprising of one actual and two forecast
years; sewage tariffs would cover operating and maintenance expenses and
debt service.
All operating expenses are assumed to be subject to the
following inflationary increases: 1984 7.5%, 1985 72, 1986 and thereafter
6%. Salaries and wages are based on WSC's salaries and wages scales
prevailing in 1983. Adjustments have been made in the number of staff
because of the future increases in WA's activities and salaries were
adjusted to allow for general salary adjustments and for inflation.
Improvements in productivity - due to better coordination and elimination
of certain overlapping functions - have also been assumed. The quantity
of energy and chemical was projected on the basis of operating
requirements.
Routine maintenance was estimated to average about 1% of fixed
assets values relating to the water activities and .5% of fixed assets



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
values for sewerage. General and administrative expenses were projected
in line vith the expanded activities. Assets were depreciated on a
straight-line basis which averages at 3X of fixed assets for water works
and at 2.5% for sewerage works.
Cash Flow Statement and Balance Sheet
The Government's contributions consist of contributions to WA's
investment program which are included in the draft five year plan
(1981-1985), for the construction of water works and sewerage to be
operated by the WA. Customer's contributions include the amount
collected in line with current legislation which provides for payment
over a period of 20 years of 4% of the annual rental value payable at
time of connecting to sewerage. In addition, some minor contributions
referred to in WA's regulation as application fees are included
hereunder. Accounts payable include two months of consumable operating
materials. Inventories are assumed to be three months of the value of
supplies of materials, chemicals and fuel and accounts receivables are
assumed to average about three months of sales.
The on-lent proceeds of the Bank loan are assumed to carry an
interest rate of 10X p.a., a commitment charge of 0.75% on the
undisbursed balance, and would be repayable over 12 years after an
initial grace period of five years. Other loans made to the WA by KfW
and USAID are assumed to be repaid over 20 years after an initial ten-
year grace period and to carry an interest rate of 6% per annum. A loan
from the Islamic Bank is projected to be for 15 years including 5 years
of grace and bears interest at 3% p.a.
Interest during construction and the Bank front end fee will be
capitalized and transferred to fixed assets in operation at the time of
commissioning. During the construction period, interest payments to the
various lenders will be made by the Government and added to the on-lent
proceeds of the various loans.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Additional Information Available in Project File
A. LEGAL DOCUMENTS
A-1:   Water Supply Corporation Law.
B. STUDIES
B-1:   Final Master Plan Report and Engineering Design and Economic
Analysis Report for Wastewater Disposal for Greater Amman Area
(February 1982).
B-2:   Study of the Primary and Secondary Conveyance Systems for
Domestic Water Supply in the Amman, Balqa and Irbid
Governorates, Preliminary Report (December 1983). Prepared by
Watson Hanksley and Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners.
B-3;   Final Report on WSST at Amman (March 1984).  Prepared by H.F.
Ludwig, Consultant.
B-4;   Baqa's and Waddi es Sir Sewage Treatment Plants - Preliminary
Engineering and Cost Estimates (June 1984). Prepared by MIMAR
and Howard Humphreys Ltd.
B-5:   Bank Water Sector Study (Report No. 4699-JO).



- 52 -              CHART 1
* __ _
0S -           = =_
Mlv               
a  __      _    __        __.
E~ _ _=_ l. __
j.k    . __             I___  I_l}
-'E    L-  = _ _    ___    ____
il       I:e      ___ _,     __I    I_    1111
i          t Stt    -E    c        it
<    &   v          g S ~~~i
'.t~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2                       ~ 



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE WATER AUTHORITY
(TENTATIVE)
iUrd
of the
Water
authority
President
Ibter                                                                                   Secretary
Couancils                                                                                Geneal
Water Supply     Saierage       Finsmial                          Ibter              .          Proiet
operatiora     Operati wl     a   asltini   Administrati         aRkwae         Plam_ gmtati 
L        _   _ ___   ____
t4artwn        Central          Saudwu
Regiual        Iegicaul         Regiol*1
Office         Office           Office



GREATER  R D A N                                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~chirbet es Samra
%   t  )                 ~~~~~~~GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY                                                                              Stab 4  anioi Pona 
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                                   S          *.n
PROPOSED PROJECT
1ND3a  Sewerage Treatment Works                                      E u                       DISTRICT OF  AJLUN
Trunk Mains                                           )                               DISTRICT OF AMMAN
_      ^.    /                    \             ~~~~~~~~~UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                          
a) Baqa'a Valley   k                    \3O  Seweragle Treatment Works
Sewsr e Treatment Work      )                                       Pumping Station                                    j      ^g
L/\ R _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Trunk Mains                                                ,IN
2   /Y  EXISTING                       \                  i        |  Pumping Station lor
_                           xJ  >               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sewerage Trealmenl Worksa  ]                   arcia. usedla     f
_                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Trunk Mainas~@                              
Main Roads                                 >                 \   +IO
-Disnillt Boundaries _
f  WadiesOA S
/    \  _    UrbaS AreasARABIA
(Ad                             gfARS ~~~~~~~~~~~Occupied Territories
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5
YY               f  '   J                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
-\                  \  %;
( 1 1 ii ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAEBg
Wadi es Sir MN| 
Sewage 2reatment Wonrks   \                                   t                                                                                Amman                  ,
A  R    S                                                      Z    S                         \    9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUDI ARABIA
/ /-A 1 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISRAEL/  JORDAN\
ry ,  tw AIRl dbm pvd b y cr YW        c         r dv in _ - ofs                                                        \                                                                 ./
(0   wkwfkomlfirnvdw-a                       o A  odb






