Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
2(,/ 2V 3- 40;
Rhut No. P-3913-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USSt3O MLLION
TO THE
HASHEIIMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
GREATER AMMaN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
:'
December 5, 1984
Thli documen has a retritd ddrlbul. and may e used by recpints aly la the pefemaneo of
tber sdal duda lb contnts may not ollrwise e 1demd withot Word BDk aun hat_.



EASHEMITE KINGDOM :F JORDAN
-  CUCY EQUEVALENTS
Calendar 1983                   August 1984
Currency Unit               Jordan dinar (JD)                       Jr
US $1.00                       J JD 0.363                          0.333
JD 1.000            =          US$2.74                             2.61
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JDI-US$2.70
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWSA         -         Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
LRAIC        -         Long Run Average Incremental Cost
NCM          -         Million Cubic Meters
NRA          -         Natural Resources Authority
PICS         -         Project Management and Construction Unit
USAID        -         United States Agency for Inte.-national
Development
WA           -         Water Authority of Jordan
WSC          -         Water Supply Corporation



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
HASUENITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMRY
Borrower:               The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:            The Water Authority of Jordan (WA).
Amcunt:                 US$30 million equivalenc.
Terms:                   15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Rela nding Terms:       Same as the Bank loan.  The WA would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Description;    The project would improve the water supply and
sewerage services in the Greater Amman area and would
include: (i) extension and rehabilitation of about 100
km of water mains; (ii) construction of about 350 km
of trunk and collection sewers; (iii) construction of
two sewage treatment works; (iv) supply of operating
and maintenance equipment;  and (v) consultant
services for engineering, project management and
construction supervision. The project would continue
the institutional development efforts started under
two previous Bank loans. The main beneficiaries of
the project would be the low and middle-income
families in the project area. Because of the recent
establishment of the WA, initial difficulties might be
encountered in its institutional and organizational
development. This risk is, however, minimized through
the provision of adequate advisory staff in finance,
management and technical matters.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost*:                                 Local      Foreizn       Total
Water Distribution Systems                        0.97        2.25         3.22
Sewage Systems                                    7.35       17.11        24.46
Sewage Treatment Works                            3.86        4.36         8.22
Operational and Maintenance Equipment              -          0.27         0.27
Consulting Services                               1.11        0.32         1.43
Land Acquisi'ion                                  0.11         -           0.11
Base Cost                              13.40        24.31       37.71
Physical Contingencies                            1.22        2.37         3.59
Price Contingencies                               2.27        4.16         6.43
Total Cost                             16.89        30.84       47.73
Interest During Construction                       -          8.67         8.67
Total Financing Required               16.89        39.51       56.40
Financing Plan:
Proposed World Bank loan                            -        30.00        30.00
Government contribution                          16.59        9.51        26.10
Funds from operations                             0.30         -           0.30
Total Financing                        16.89        39.51       56.40
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY
bS$ Millions
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Annual          0.6      7.5     8.8     5.2      2.9     1.0      2.4     1.6
Cumulative      0.6      8.1    16.9    22.1    25.0    16.0    28.4    30.0
Economic justification: Least cost program.
-..
*1 Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which the
project is exempt.



DNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDEN'T OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOs OF JORDAN FOR A
GREATER ArZAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the folloving report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$30 million equivalent to help
finance a Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The loan would be
for 15 years, incluiding three years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. The loan would be onlent to the Water Authority of Jordan on
the same terms and at the same rate as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan" (No.4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1983. An
economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its findings have been
included in the present text. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developmeuts
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in its
oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange. This
has enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural population
growth rate (3.8 percent) through massive emigratiol stimulated by high
salaries in the neighboring countries and through rapid expansion of domestic
production fueled by an exceptionally high investment rate and rapidly growing
export demand. At present, about 40 percent of Jordan's total workforce is
employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers' remittance inflow, Jordan
benefited from large inflows of grant aid from neighboring countries as well
as a rapid increase in regional demand for its exports. During the period
1976-82 the yearly inflow of workers' remittances and grants reached on
average close to two-thirds of Jordan's GDP. The abundant supply of these
resources and favorable entrepreneurial climate enabled Jordan to maintain
both very high consumption and investment rates.
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1976-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured goods, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real tes
during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, were almost
fully compensated by factor income and transfers from abroad. Government-
guaranteed external borrowing remained therefore within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level (para. 14).



5.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown-.in the neighboring
countries has in many ways affected the Jordanian economy; it led to a
slowdown of domestic economic activity and a reduction in the inflow of
external transfers. The overall economic growth rate slowed down to about 5.5
percent (in real terms) in 1983, still a satisfactory performance considering
the present unfavorable economic environment; foreign grant aid was about 30
percent lower, workers' remittances stagnated while exports of manufactured
goods and services to neighboring countries declined.  The effect of these
factors was exacerbated by a marked decline in exports of raw and processed
minerals. Imports also declined, in line with the sizable reduction in public
and private investwents. As a result, the current account deficit for 1983
showed only a slight increase to $388 million. It was mainly covered by the
proceeds of a $225 million Eurodollar loan contracted in early 1983. Jordan
also drew on its reserves which remained, however, equal to more than 3 months
of imports.
6.       With the decline in Government revenues from grants, public
investment was reduced, and the Government has further intensified its
domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and improved
collection of direct and indirect taxes (about 90 percent of recurrent
expenditures is covered by domestic revenues).
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
As a result of increases in deposit rates in 1983, savings deposits rose
faster than the money supply. Together with a marked decline in inflation to
5 percent in 1983, these increases have resulted in interest rates becoming
substantially positive again in real terms.
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent range as
projected by the 1981-85 Plan would no longer appear feasible in the medium
term; a rate in the neighborhood of 5 percent per annum in real terms appears
more likely during the next Plan (1986-90). This projection assumes a
reduction in the exceptionally high level of investments achieved during the
early 1980s, which was mainly due to implementation of a number of major new
projects such as potash, fertilizer and a refinery, now at initial stages of
production.  While the new major natural resource-based industries have
provided some new employment opportunities in the short term, the economic
slowdown is likely to change the manpower situation in Jordan from one of
selective shortages to one of general excess supply requiring finding
employment for a rapidly increasing domestic workforce (para. 12).
9.       The industrial sector (including min!ing, manufacturing and
construction) is expected to continue to lead the growth of GDP and exports.
The new industries are expected to contribute more than one third towards
incremental GDP during 1984-85. Together with an expansion of phosphate
mining and cement production, total industrial output would grow at a brisk
annual rate of about 10.8 percent for 1984-85 but slow down to an underlying
rate of 7.5 percent per annum for the period 1987-90. Since the rapid



- 3 -
expansion of infrastructure and private housing during the-boom years of the
1970s and early 1980s has slowed down substantially, the construction industry
is likely to grow at a substantially lower rate (3 percent) during 1986-90.
Thus, industrial growth during the next plan period will have to rely
increasingly on development of more small and medium scale higher technology
manufacturing, largely for exports. The projected 7.5 percent for industrial
growth assumes that adjustment of the industrial sector in this direction will
be achieved, inter alia through changes in protection policies and
improvements in export incentives.
10.      Curtailment in growth of public expenditures and the slowdown in
domestic and foreign demand for banking and transportation services are
expected to slow down growth of services to an average annual rate of little
over 3 percent per annum for 1984-87. In particular it is expected that the
transportation sector and the hotel industry, which at present are facing
large surplus capacity, will undergo a period of consolidation. In the trade
sector, efficiency gains from modernization would likely be offset by
increased pressure from higher unemployment to expand the less efficient
informal sector of trade. In contrast to the expected slow growth performaace
of traditional private services, the prospects are favorable to exploit
Jordan's potential in skilled labor and meet the demand for special services
in areas such as consulting, contracting, and maintenance. Agriculture is
projected to continue to grow by about 5 percent per annum. overall, the
sectoral growth rates would enable Jordan to maintain a comfortable GDP growth
rate of about 5 percent per annum for 1984-85, which would seem sustainable
throughout the 1980s.
11.      On the external balance side, the projections assume that exports of
goods and non factor services would grow by an average rate of about 8 percent
per annum in real terms for 1984-90. Exports from the output of previous and
new industrial natural resource based projects to the world market would make
the largest contribution to this growth performance. The export projections
for the later 1980s assume that adequate measures are taken to develop
Jordan's manufacturing exports. The external balance projections assume that
imports would increase less rapidly because of rhe slow overall economic
growth rate and the expected sizable reduction in the level of investments
after completion of the major industrial projects. Even though merchandise
exports are projected to maintain a high rate of increase while imports would
grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could continue to
increase and could exceed the $2.4 billion mark in 1984. In relation to GDP,
however, the resource gap is expected to show a further decline from about 56
percent in 1983 to about 41 percent in 1987. Unlike the past, net workers'
remittances and foreign grants, which are likely to decline, may not be
sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have to
rely more on external borrowing (para. 15). In order to maintain its prudent
build-up of external debt, Jordan will need to combine external borrowing with
increasing efforts to mobilize domestic resources, particularly in the public
sector.
Social Issues
12.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanian workers to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the labor market situation has been
characterized until recently by selective manpower shortages. However,
according to recent manpower projections, supply of labor in Jordan in the



-4-
medium term is likely to show selective surpluses, particularly throughout
certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1980, out of the
approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including Palestinians from the West Bank)
residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were estimated to be workers, compared
to a total domestic employment of about 440,000. Domestic employment includes
at present a relatively large number of foreign workers currently estimated at
about 125,000, half of whom are unskilled. The country has expanded its
education and training system rapidly, to meet both domestic and external
needs. A comprehensive manpower and training plan is needed to help ensure
that: (a) the economy does not suffer from shortages of crucial skills, while
meeting prospective demand for skilled workers abroad; and (b) the potential
labor force is 'Ltilized more fully-especially the seasonally idle workers in
rainfed areas and women, whose participation, although growing fast, is still
low.
13.      The Government has emphasized social issues in the current Five-Year
Plan (1981-85). Although the social indicators are relatively favorable in
most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups. The Government's concern about these issues has led to
the setting up of the new Ministry of Social Affairs in November 1979 to
define a coherent social development program.
External Assistance
14.      With the large chrcnic trade deficit offset by inflows of remittances
and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of payments was on
average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers' remittances increased
from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in 1982 and 1983.
Following the Baghdad Arab Sumnit Conference in November 1978, which pledged
assistance of about $1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign
grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about $1.3 billion in 1980
and 1981; it declined to some $0.8 billion in 1983. This decline was the main
reason for the current account deficit of $388 million in that year which was
largely financed by external borrowing and partly by drawing on reserves. The
external public debt outstavding and disbursed reached $1.823 billion at the
end of 1983 (about 45 percent of GNP). External debt service payments
amounted to $226 million in 1983 or 7.4 percent of total exports of goods and
services.
15.      Jordan's impressive g-owth, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large amounts of
foreign assistance. The grant component of this foreign assistance is
projected to decline gradually in real terms over the next few years. The
projections on that basis indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $0.7 billion over the 1984-1990 period, mostly in later years. While
bilateral and multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of
external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial
markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these
assumptions, the debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and
services is projected to reach 9 percent by 1987 and some LI percent by 1990.
Given this outlook and the country's record of prudent management, Jordan
remains creditworthy for Bank lending.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPFRATIONS 1/-.
16.      Jordan has received 15 Bank loans totalling $380.8 million and 15 IDA
credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 60-70 percent of appraisal ectimates.
The IDA credits have financed projects in key sectors, such as education,
highways, water suppLy and sewerage, power, irrigation and tourism. By
mid-1978, Jordan had attained a stage of economic development where it could
be considered creditworthy for Bank lending and had reached a GNP per capita
level that exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus discontinued after March
1978. IFC has made investments in Jordan with total commitments of $94.2
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits,
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984.
17.      Bank group assistance to Jordai has been directed toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated closely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilization of large external
financial assistance. In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expanding manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and emphasized
=        in the second Five-Year Plan (198i-85).  Bank assistance has also fostered the
development of the power subsector to meet the demand from a rapidly growing
economy.
18.      In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance for developing and implementing a plan fcr expanding phosphate rock
mining. An engineering credit was made in FY75 to help prepare a large
project for potash production .rom the Dead Sea via solar evaporation, for
which a loan was approved in September 1978; the project has been successfully
completed. In addition, further support for the Government's social and
economic objectives was provided in recent years by loans for the Fifth and
Sixth Education projects approved in March 1983 and February 1984, the Cities
and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) project approved in March 1980, the Urban
Development and Urban Transport projects approved in July 1980 and July 1983
respectively, the Fifth Power project approved in May 1982, the Zarqa/Ruseifa
Water Supply and Sewerage and the Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
projects approved in December 1982 and May 1984, the Energy Development
Project approved in December 1983 and the Multi-Mode Transport Project
approved in July 1984. Projects under preparation include mining, transport,
- -       water supply/sewerage, urban and health development, energy and industry.  IFC
has provided loans and equity contributions for a major fertilizer project and
for projects in the construction materials subsector. It has also assisted
the capital market and leasing ventures.
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report Eor the
Multi-Mode Transport Loan (No. P-3851-JO), which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 7, 1984.



-6-
19.      In a parallel effort at the macroeconomic and secteral levels, the
Bank has assisted the Government by reviewing the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan, with
emphasis on the industrial sector and manpower analysis. It has also helped
review the energy, water supply, health and urban sectors, export strategy and
promotion in manufacturing industries as well as issues relating to regional
development and manpower and train4.ng. The reports entitled Energy Sector
Study, Review of the Five-Year Plan (1981-85), Export Strategy and Export
Promotion In Manufact.aring Industries, Urban Sector Review, Health Sector
Review and Water Sector Study were distributed to the Executive Directors in
March 1983, May 19d3. and June 1983 (both Export Promotion and Urban Sector
Reviews) June 1984 and July 1984, respectively.
20.      At the end of 1983, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 12 percent, and its share in debt
service was 5 percent. By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding
and in debt service are expected to be about 13 percent and 8.5 percent
respectively.
PART III - TEE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Setting
21.      Water Resources.  About 80 percent of Jordan's land area is desert.
Availability of water depends largely on rainfall, ranging from moderate
amounts (600 millimeters per year) in the northern uplands to negligible
amounts in the southern and eastern deserts, over 85 percent of which is loct
through evaporation. As the more conveniently located sources of municipal
and industrial water supplies have become fully utilized, surface and
groundwater in other areas, hitherto used for agriculture, will have to be
transported at high cost over long distances and/or steep gradients to meet
these needs. The rapid growth of the economy in recent years and the
associated increase in municipal, industrial and agricultural water demands,
coupled with Jordan's high rate of natural increase (3.8 percent), have put
serious pressure on the country's limited water resources; and water scarcity
may become a principal constraint to economic growth. In these circumstances.
it is crucial for Jordan to realize the maximum benefits from its limited
resources by the continued development and implementation of a sound sector
strategy and through prudent water resource management.
22.      Water SUpply. About 85 percent of the urban population is supplied
through house connections. However, due to source inadequacy, the supplies in
many areas are intermittent; and over 30 percent of the water produced for
municipal water supply is lost through leakage, due in part to corroded pipes
in the major distribution systems.  In.1979 about 60 percent of the rural
population was provided with piped water supply, with the remainder supplied
through private wells or tankers operated privately or by the Water Authority
(WA); with ongoing extension works this is expected to reach about 80 percent
by 1985. Even where public piped water supply exists, however, there is a
danger that intermittent supplies can lead to contaminated water and effluents
entering the system through leaks when it is depressurized. This risk is
particularly acute where septic tanks and cesspits are used.
23.      Sewage.  At present, only four cities (Amman, Salt, A!aba, and
Jerash) have sewage collection and treatment systems, which serve about 30
percent of Jordan's population. Sewage systems are being constructed in



-7-
Irbid, Zarqa, and Ruseifa; and plans are underway for systems in ten medium
size cities, six in north Jordan and four in the south, eight of which are
included under the Bank financed Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Loan 2425-JO), which will provide services to another 20 percent of
the country. In areas where sewage systems do not exist, the wastes are
discharged in septic tanks, ce'sspools and similar facilities. Despite
significant efforts to provide sewerage in recent years, rapid growth in
urbanization, rising standards of living and extensive but uncoordinated land
development have caused individual waste water disposal facilities to become
inadequate, particularly in high density areas and in soils with limited
percolation capacity.  Occasionally, overflows or improper disposal of
cesspool waste occur, creating major health hazards. Severe outbreaks of
cholera have occurred in Jordan, the latest in 1981. The infant mortality
rate has declined in recent years but still remains high (60 per 1000 live
births in 1982) as does the incidence of water-related infectious diseases.
This suggests the need for continuing efforts to improve water supply and
sanitation conditions in the country.
Government Strategy in the Sector
24.      The scarcity of water and the high cost of its development have long
been recognized by the Government. Based on a number of studies over the
years, including the recently completed Bank Water Sector Study (para. 31),
available water resources are projected to be adequate to meet municipal and
industrial needs beyond the turn of the century with a modest increase
available for irrigation if the Government pursues appropriate policies in the
foll'owing areas: (i) proper allocation of known resources and new resource
development (which includes transfer of water from water surplus to deficit
areas, continuing exploratory work for ground water sources and further
development of remaining surface sources); (ii) prudent water resource
management by strengthening the sector's institutional capability; (iii)
quantity and quality control of water and wastewater; (iv) development of
policies related to reuse of waste water; (v) development of appropriate cost
recovery and other financial policies; and (vii) manpower planning and
training.
25.      Aided by sound G3vernment policies, water conservation is generally
practised throughout tIe country. The Government has also made impressive
strides in developing the sector. It has embarked on a program of large water
*-        projects to help relieve water shortages, particularly in the upland areas of
northwest Jordan.  During the current Five-Year Plan period (1981-85). almost
16 percent of public sector investment is allocated for water and irrigation,
which is about seven times the corresponding actual investments in the
previous plan period (1976-80).  Furthermore, the Government has adopted a
policy for adequately treating all sewage from industries and municipalities
which are sewered so that effluents may be suitable for reuse in agriculture.
The Government, with the assistance of the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), is in the process of developing a data
management system, which will monitor quantities and physical and chemical
qualities of water resources in the country. The newly created Water
Authority (WA) (para. 26) will be responsible for maintaining and policing
this system. In order to deal with the problems of intermittent water supply
and leakage, the WA is developing a program to systematically detect and
repair leaks and to improve water distribution (para. 33). These efforts
should help reduce the risk of bacteriologically unsafe water.



-8-
26.      Institutional AsPects.  In the past, the sector was plagued with
problems of inadequate coordination due to the large number of institutions
involved in water production and supply for different user groups. This often
led to duplication of efforts and sub-optimal investment decisions. As
recommended in the Bank's Water Sector Study, an autonomous agency, the WA,
was created to take over the responsibilities for providing water supply and
sewerage services, water resource management and monitoring, planning,
development and allocation, and water quality monitoring for the whole of                 &
Jordan. This has set. the institutional framework necessary to better husband
critically scarce water resources in order to sustain economic growth. The
thrust of the WA's work will be to formulate policies and take appropriate
measures to augment the country's usable water resources, to efficiently
allocate these among the various competitive users and to ensure that the
water allocated is used economically. The present organization of the WA is
expected to evolve as it develops to fully assume its mandated role, and the
WA is studying its organizational needs over the long-term in order to modify
its organizational structure, if necessary. Bank funds have been provided for
a management advisor to assist the WA in this work (para. 46).
27.      In view of the growth of sector-related irntitutions and operational
facilities, the demand for trained personnel has become an urgent matter. In
the past most of the institutions involved in the sector had some training
programs, and several educational institutions provided some sector-related
training, but this was generally ad hoc, unfocussed and suffered from a lack
of coordination. Many of those who were trained were siphoned off by the
private sector or by neighboring countries where salaries are substantiilly
higher.  With the assistance of USAID, WA is in the process of implementing a
national training program to tackle both short- and long-term problems in chis
area.
28.      Tariffs for urban municipal water supply have generally been in line
with the cost of these services, and sewerage charges have generally been
adequate (para. 48). In Amman, the total income from water and sewerage
revenues does cover total operating expenditures of water and sewerage and
debt service. Ineffective control of groundwater extraction by industry and
agriculture, where tariffs or extraction fees have not been imposed or are
below costs of production, has resulted in serious depletion of groundwater in
populated areas. Consequently, water for municipal supplies has had to be
transported from distant locations at high costs. A tariff study for
municipal and industrial water uses under the Zarqa/Ruseifa project will help
develop the necessary financial strategies (para. 49).
IDA/Bank Role in the Sector
>29.      IDA commuenced its assistance to the sector in the 1960s.  The FY62
Credit 18-JO for $2.0 million and FY64 Credit 43-JO for $1.5 million supported
water supply development respectively in Amman and in the cities of
Ramallah-El Bira, Jerusalem, Nablus, Azraq, Irbidi and Zarqa. In the 1970s,
the Government concentrated its efforts on developing the water supply and
sewerage services of Amman, which also resulted in the creation of the former
Amman Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA). The FY73 $8.7 million Credit
385-JO and FY78 $14 million Credit 780-JO assisted in the development of AWSA
and helped finance investments for Amman's rapidly expanding needs for
additional water supply and sewerage facilities. These projects have been
successfully completed, and completion reports for Credits 385-JO and 780-JO



-9-
have been prepared. No Performance Audit Reports have yet-been prepared. Ihe
lessons learned from the above projects include the need for better
coordination in planning and execution of projects and the particular
importance of reducing unaccounted for water in a largely water deficit
situation. The completion report for the Fm73 project (Sec.79-491) also noted
that while substantial efforts'had-gone into the institutional development of
AWS. weaknesses remained, particularly in its financial department. These
factors have been taken into account in the design of later projects.
30.      In FY83, the Bank provided further assistance through Loan 2213-JO of
$17.0 million for the improvement of the vater supply and sewerage services
for the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa. A prime project objective was to
strengthen the Water Supply Corporation (WSC), the project implementing and
operating agency, which was responsible for water supply and sewerage in areas
outside Anmn and the Jordan Valley Authority. Technical and financla
advisors have already been engaged, and measures to improve operations and
financial management are underway. With the recent reorganization of the
sector. responsibility for the execution and operation of the project has been
taken over by the WA, which will be assisted by these advisors in its
organizational development. The Bank also approved in may 1984. a loan of
$30.0 million (Loan 2425-JO) to the WA for the Eight Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (para. 2Z3).
Rationale for Bank Involvement
31.      The Bank's recently completed Water Sector Study (Report No.4699-JO)
made several recommendations concerning the sector's organization and
financial policies; outlined a strategy to develop available water resources
for meeting the needs of competing users; established general recommoendations
for appropriate waste water disposal; and formulated associated investment
programs. Based on this, the Bank's overall strategy in the sector includes
assistance to the Government in implementing policies to efficiently manage
and allocate the country's scarce water resources, executing technically sound
and economically feasible projects to increase usable water resources
(including effluent reuse), strengthening sector institutions including
training and establishing sound pricing policies to assure economic use and
conservation of water and to allow operating entities to be financially viable
and self-sustaining.
32.      The proposed project has been designed to support the Bank's overall
strategy. Specifically the project would pLay an essential role in providing
assistance and advice, and in ensuring proper follow-up actions for (i) the
development of appropriate management and organizational systems for the WA;
(ii) judicious selection and formulation of potential projects and related
investment strategies; and (iii) improvements in operational areas such as
financial planning, accounting. auditing, manpower planning and training.
Proiect Area
33.      The Greater Ammn area (a 25 km radius from the city center) covers
the municipality of Awnan, 11 surrounding municipalities, two refugee camps
and some minor villages.  It has experienced rapid growth in the pa  two
decades, and its economy has been characterized by a continuing shitv from
agriculture to the industrial and service sectors. The total population in
1979 was 1.27 million and is projected to increase to 2.06 million by 1990 and



-10 -
2.99 million by 2000. Greater Amman is a water-deficit area presently
supplied from local ground water wells and from well fields located to the
east and south of the city. An additional water supply is being developed
with water to be taken from the East Ghor fain Canal. This is scheduled to be
commissioned by early 1985 and would satisfy projected water demand through
1990. About 85 percent of the-population is connected to the public water
supply system, the remainder being served by public taps (4 percent) and water
tankers (11 percent). Water consumption for connected supply averages about
85 liters per capita per day (lcd).- Water supply facilities are generally
well operated and maintained, although some 6 percent of water samples being
taken are bacteriologically unsatisfactory.  Unaccounted for water is high (&44
percent) because of corroded water mains; with improved water supply and
distribution system pressure, the rate of leakage has increased. However,
leaks are expected to be reduced through ongoing rehabilitation or replacement
of older water mains. Furthermore, the WA with consultancy assistance is
developing a program to reduce unaccounted for water to a target level of 25
percent by 1990.
34.      The sanitary situation in Greater Amman is gradually deteriorating
and sewage effluent is increasingly polluting the upper groundwater aquifer or
overflowing into the streets, creating a health hazzard. Untreated or
insufficiently treated wastewater effluents are being discharged into the
river streams which are used for irrigation. This situation, combined with
rapid population growth and increasing density and industrialization, calls
for urgent action. About 77 percent of Amman municipality is currently
connect-d to the sewage system and only 4 percent in the outlying
municipalities. The remaining population relies upon cesspool installations
of various operational performance, with the effluent percolating into the
ground. Maintenance costs (pump-outs) can be significant. The bulk of the
sevage is treated in the Ain Ghazal Treatment Plant, which is heavily
overloaded, partly due to high strength sewage influent. The WA is presently
extending these facilities by the construc Lion of stabilization ponds, which
are scheduled to be completed in 1985 and would provide satisfactory treatment
capacity up to the early 1990s. Thus, considering that the water supply
requirements for Greater Amman and Amman municipality's sewage treatment
facilities would be adequate, the priorities for Greater Amman are: to extend
the sewage network in densely populated areas, to provide for sewage disposal
facilities for areas outside the Anman municipality and to strengthen and
rehabilitate the water distribution system. The proposed project would
address these needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
35.      The proposed project is based on the priorities developed in a phased
Master Plan. financed by USAID. It was preapprai4ed in November 1983 and
appraised in June 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. during
November 12 - 16, 1984. The Jordanian delegation was headed by Mr. Boulos
Kefaya of the Ministry of Planning and included representatives of the Water
Authority. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5260-JO) dated November 30, 1984 is
being distributed separately. The main features of the loan and project are
outline<; in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the
project area is attached.



- Ii -
Project Obiectives and Description
36.      The project is expected to have a significant impact on living
conditions and health standards in the project area, including lower income
people in the Baqaa Valley. Its major objectives include: (i) extension of
sewerage services in the project area to about 94 percent of total population
(in 1989) from present coverage of about 67 percent through rehabilitation and
extension of the sewage systems; (ii) reduction of groundwater pollution by
decreasing the infiltration of cesspool effluents within Greater Amman so that
by 1989 only 45 percent of the population will be served by cesspools compared
to 60 percent of the population in 1984; (iii) recycling of waste-water for
agricultural purposes through the provision of satisfactory sewage treatment
facilities; (iv) improvement of water supply services and reduction of water
losse.s through distribution system rehabilitation; Cv) continuation of
assistance in the development of the WA and in the establishment of proper
financial procedures in order to achieve financial self-sufficiency through
adequate charges for water supply and sewerage services; and (vi) preparation
of the next stage extension of water supply, sewerage and sewage disposal
facilities on a priority basis.
37.      The project includes the following major cowponents: (i) about 100 km
of water distribution network; (ii) about 350 km of trunk mains and secondary
sewers; (iii) sewage treatment works for the Baqa'a Valley and Wadi es Sir
drainage zones (two suburban areas in the Greater Amman area) with a first
stage capacity of 8,000 and 2,400 m3/day (maximum flow), respectively; (iv)
operation and maintenance equipment; and (v) consultant assistance for
engineering, project management and construction supervision. The proposed
treatment works at Wadi es Sir and Baqa'a Valley would utilize trickling
filters, and the raw sludge from these works would be transported by tankers
to the sludge treatment facilities at the Ain Ghazal Treatment Plant. The
various alternatives selected and components recommended for the project
represent the most feasible least-cost solutions. Effluent que.lity standards
would be satisfactory and enable recycling of water for irrigation.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
38.      The total cost of the proposed project, including physical and price
contingencies (in mid-1984 prices) is about $48 million, of which about $31
million (65 percent) is in foreign exchange.  In addition, interest and other
charges duriag construction amount to about $9 million.  Cost estimates do not
include import duties and taxes, from which the project is exempt.  The
project cost includes physical contingenc'es of about 10 percent of the total
cost. The price contingencies for both civil works and material and equipment
for foreign cost components have been estimated at 7.5 percent for 1984, 7
percent for 1985 ani; 6 percent thereafter; and for local cost components at
7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent thereafter. The
engineering, project management and construction supervision costs correspond
to about 420 manmonths and include overheads, travel and subsistence.
39.      The proposed Bank loan of $30 million would cover about 53 percent of
the total financing requirements. The baLance would be financed by Government
as equity contributions and from internal sources of the WA (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.01(a) and (b)). The Bank loan would be made to the Government for
15 years, including a three-year grace period. The Government would onlend it
on the same terms and conditions to the WA, under a subsidiary loan agreement



- 12 -
satisfactory to the Bank, the execution of which would be .acondition of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(c) and 6.01). The WA would bear
the foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks. The onlending rate
would be significantly posicive in real terms, as the current domestic
inflation rate is about 5 percent per annum.
t
40.      Procurement and Disbursements.  Procurement arrangements are
sumnarized below:
Proiect Element                   ICB      LCB        Other        TOTAL
$ Million
Water Distribution Network              1.56     2.56       -            4.12
(1.00)   (1.64)      -          -(2.64)
Sewage Systems                        25.02      6.2.5      -           31.27
(15.88)   (6.04)      -          (19.92)
Treatment Works                       10.X2                 -           10.42
(6.74)               -           (6.74)
Operational Equipment                  0.38       -         -            0.38
(0.38)     -         -           (0.38)
Consulting Services                     -         -         1.43         1.43
=_____     (0.32)       (0.32)
Total                             37.38      8.81       1.43         47.62
(24.00)   (5.68)     (0.32)       (30.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
41.      It is estimated that 15 civil works and equipment supply contracts
would be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and would have
an aggregate value of about 80 percent of total costs.  For the sewage
treatment works one contract would be awarded for civil works, equipment
supplies and installation. Equipment supply contracts estimated to cost
more than $550,000 and civil works contracts estimated to cost more than
$1.4 million would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Bank guidelines would also be applied in the recruitment of
consultants (Project Agreement, Sections 2.03 and 2.04). Documents and
awards for all contracts under ICB would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Other equipment supply and civil works contracts with an aggregate
cost not exceeding $2.0 million and $7.0 million, respectively, would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. For material and equipment to be procured under
ICB, a domestic preference of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is
lower, would be used for the purpose of bid evaluation. For civil works'
contracts expected to last more than 24 months, price adjustment provisions
would be included.
42.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of
approximately seven and a half years as follows: equipment, material
supplies and equipment, 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local
expenditures; civil works, 100 percent of foreign and 60 percent of local
expenditures; and consultant services, 100 percent of total expenditures.
The estimated disbursement schedule in the Loan and Project Summary takes
into consideration the standard disbursement profile for Jordan and
reflects the advanced state of project preparation, the relative efficiency



- 13 -
of the implementing agency and is about the same as the Regional profile
for water supply and sewerage projects. In order to expedite
disbursements, a revolving fund of $1.5 million (equivalent to an average
of about 3 months disbursements) would be opened by the Government and
would be replenished on the basis of standard documentation for eligible
reimbursable expenditures. Contracts below $10,000 equivalent may be
claimed under statements of expenditures (Loan Agreement. Section 2.02 (b).
4        Schedule 4; Project Agreement, Sections 4.01 (b)(i), 4.02 (b)(ii)).  The
loan closing date would be December 31, 1991. The extension of water and
sewage systems in Greater Amman is a continuous process. For these
contracts, retroactive financing is recommended in order not to delay
critically needed improvements. Such financing is proposed for
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1984 for an amount of up to $3.0
million (10 percent of the total Bank loan). Contracts would be awarded
according to local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and
disbursement would be fully documented.
Proiect Execution
43.      The WA has established a separate project management and
construction unit (PMCS), which has also been responsible for preparing the
project (Project Agreement, Section 2.02). The PNCS would be assisted by
engineering consultants for project management, tender evaluation and
preparation of contract documents, finalization of detailed engineering,
and project supervision. These consultant services are expected to be
provided by the same firms undertaking the engineering design. A local -
consulting firm (MIMAR) in association with Howard Humphreys, U.K. is
preparing the final designs for the sewerage treatment works, which are
scheduled to be completed in December 1984. Preliminary designs for the
water distribution and sewage systems have already been prepared, and final
design will be completed as the works are executed. The WA is in the
process of acquiring land for the sites of the sewage treatment works,-
which is scheduled to be completed by end-1984. Based on past experience.
no difficulties are expected. The WA has sewer regulations that require
properties to be connected to the sewage system when it is constructed.
While sewerage is generally desired, the expense required for sewer
connections may pose financial hardships for lower income groups to be
served. The WA has agreed to assist low-income families with appropriate
arrangements (Project Agreement, Section 3.04). Arrangements under
consideration include the phasing of connection charges. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
The Implementing Azency
44.      The WA (para. 26), the beneficiary of the proposed loan, is an
autonomous agency which reports to the Prime Minister's office and enjoys
independent financial and administrative status. Operations and
maintenance of water supply and sewerage is carried out in three regional
offices, each under a manager, but supervised by related headquarters'
departments and subject to control by Water Councils composed of public and
private sector representatives. The WA has already taken over the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), the Water Supply Corporation (WSC),
the water resources branch of the National Resources Authority (NRA), the
water department of the Jordan Valley Authority and all of the agencies
within the Greater Amman area.  Additional agencies, including some 300
municipal water supply departments, will-be transferred to the WA on a
phased basis. before end-1985.



- 14 -
45.      The number of staff in the different water and sewerage related
organizations now incorporated into the WA total about 3,000 people, which
corresponds to about 12 employees per one thousand connections served,
which is reasonable given the fact that the WA's responsibilities are
spread over the whole country and the population density outside Amman is
low. Furthermore, the water re'ources branch of the NRA, previously
responsible for water exploration and hydrogeological studies, has been
transferred to the WA. Through the creation of the WA, many overlapping
functions are being eliminated and staff from separate organizations
*        brought together to work in coasolidated units.  Whi-le this will contribute
to increased productivity, additional staff will still have to be recruited
to operate the new sewerage systems being built under this project and
others. By 1990, WA staff are projected to grow to about 5,000.
Attracting and retaining technical staff do not pose problems, as salary
levels are competitive. However, salary levels for financial staff are
substantially lower, and there is a general shortage in Jordan of qualified
accounting skills (para. 46).
46.      Institutional Development and Training.  Institutional assistance
is being provided to the WA by the Bank under the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project
(Loan 2213-JO) and by the USAID, with which the Bank cooperates closely.
Bank funds under Loan 2213-JO are being used for a management advisor to
assist the WA develop its organizational structure, establish staffing and
training needs, develop an appropriate management information system and
propose personnel policies (including those relating to salary levels of
financial staff). A technical advisor has been engaged to assist the WA to
improve operating and maintenance practices, to set up a data collection
system for project planning purposes, and to prepare major projects. USAID
funds are being used to engage financial advisors to assist the WA develop
its accounting and financial management systems, and to provide three local
consulting firms with technical assistance to design water supply and
sewage systems in ten cities, eight of which are included in the Eight
Cities Project.
47.      The WA has an ongoing training program financed largely by USAID.
The program provides for training of managerial and professional staff
abroad and operating staff at local institutions. The financial advisors
are providing on-the-job training to the accounting staff in implementing a
public utility accounting system. Several facilities in Jordan now provide
training Eor technicians in civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical
- engineering. Programs have been or are being developed for training in
water supply and wastewater engineering and specifically for sewage
treatment plant operators, in view of the number of plants to be
cozmmissioned in the near future.
Financial Position
48.      The financial position of the WA should be seen in the context of
the past performance of the organizations (AWSA and WSC) it has taken
over. It reflects the nationwide scope of its operations; the scarcity of
water, which makes it imperative to protect sources and to treat (and where
feasible to recycle) effluents; low average consumption levels; the
locational mismatch between water sources and consumption centers, which
necessitates the transportation of water over long distances and steep
gradients; and relatively high construction costs. The WA's tariffs are



- 15 -
proposed by its Board of Directors and-approved by the Courteil of
Ministers. Water tariffs are high. For its piped water systems, the WA
derives most of its revenues from water and sewerage charges based on
metering. In small communities without a piped water supply and for a
large nomadic population, the WA provides a tanker supply or a free supply
from water points. The unit costs of providing these services are up to
ten times higher than those in larger centers.  Tariffs --n line with such
costs would be totally unaffordable; thus, costs of these operations
exceeding the corresponding revenues are covered by the Government. The WA
charges for its sewerage operations through a combination of surcharges on
water consumption and connection fees and an annual tax based on property
rental values, which is collected by the Government and passed on to the
WA. On this basis, the WA's net revenues have been sufficient to cover its
operating costs, debt service and a small portion of its investment costs.
At the end of 1983. the WA had a current ratio of 2.6 and a debt/equity
ratio of 24/76, which reflects the significant role of the Government in
the financing of the WA's facilities.
49.      As part of the Bank's loan for the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project, it was
agreed that a tariff study would be carried out for WSC (now absorbed by
the WA) which would propose various combinations of tariffs, user charges
and levies for the Government's consideration, taking into account the need
for water conservation, affordability to the poor and the financial
viability of the WA. The scope of this tariff study has now been expanded
to cover the WA's entire operations. The study is being carried out by the
WA's Financial Advisor with consultancy assistance.  The results of the
study are expected to be submitted to the Bank for review by the end of
1985. The study will serve as a basis for establishing a new tariff policy.
50.      Future Financial Performance.  By the year 1990 the WA's volume of
water sales are expected to increase 60 percent and volumes billed for
sewerage almost 300 percent. The volume of water supplied to rural areas
would not increase very much. Based on projected tariffs, revenues from
water sales and sewerage services would go up about 160 percent and 500
percent, respectively. In the same period operating expenses would
increase about 2.5 times for both water and sewerage. The difference
between revenues and expenses would leave a margin which would enable the
WA to meet its financial obligations. As under the Bank loan for the Eight
Cities project, the WA has agreed that from fiscal year 1985 onwards it
would: (i) for its metered water services, maintain or adjust tariffs to
i provide sufficient revenues to cover operating and maintenance expenses,
-'        the greater of debt service or depreciation, and increased working capital,
to finaace not less than 5 percent of the average annual investment cost in
-1987 and 1988, and 10 percent in 1989 and thereafter; (ii) for its sewerage
operations, implement a system of sewerage user charges, fees and levies
sufficient to cover operating and maintenance expenses and the 'geater of
debt service or depreciation; and (iii) provide the Bank three months
before the beginning of each fiscal year with copies of its forecast budget
for the fiscal year, financial projections for the following two years as
well as any proposals for adjustments in tariffs (Project Agreement,
Sections 4.03 and 4.05). In addition to the above revenue measures, the
Government would continue to compensate the WA for any deficits resulting
from the operation of its services by tankers and at water points (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02; Project Agreement, Section 4.04). Based on the
substantially higher revenue base in the future, the WA would be able to



- 16 -
service all its debts and contribute increasingly towards 4.ts fE>.ure
expansion programs from internally generated funds.
51.      Billing and Accounting.  The WA's efforts in the area of billing/
collection and accounting are generally satisfactory and ar.- being
improved. The WA is planning to expand its own computer facilities, and by
1985 all billing is expected to be done in-house. The accounts receivable
for the overall operations is about four months of sales.  The management
of the WA is devising.measures to improve bill collection. These include a
system of incentives for bill collectors and using the meter reading
4r       facilities of the power companies, which are more efficient.  The WA's
accounting system in its Amman operations follows the standard public
utility format on an accrual basis and is reasonably well kept; that
outside Amman is on a cash basis, as prescribed for government agencies.
The latter is not entirely satisfactory from an operational point of view,
and the WA has decided to introduce an appropriate accounting system, which
will be computerized for all of its operations. The financial advisor
provided under the Zarqa/Ruseifa Project has already prepared a manual of
accounts for implementation in early 1985, and accounting personnel are
being trained.
52.      Audit.  The WA's Amman operations are audited annually by a Local
independent auditing firm and are of acceptable quality. Operations
outside Amman have until now been subject to a system of expenditure
control and final audit by the Government Auditing Department. These
operations follow a different accounting system, and the scope of the audit
undertaken by the auditing department is also different from normal public
utility practice. Since the accounting system for all WA operations will
be converted into a standard public utility format beginning in 1985, from
that time the WA will arrange for its accounts to be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and experienced in public utility
accounting systems. Audit reports and financial statements will be
forwarded to the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal year
(Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
Affordability of Water
53.      The cost of water supply and sewerage services in Jordan is high.
The long-run average incremental cost (LRAIC) of water at a discount rate
of 10 percent varies between JD 0.370/in in areas where water is locally
available to JD 0.490/i3 for areas such as Amman, where part of the water
-'        has to be pumped over long distances.  However, the water tariffs and
sewerage charges as projected would not impose any serious burden on even
the lowest income population.  The lo-est quintile of average monthly
household income in the Amman a-ea is about JD 108.  Assuming an average
household size of five persons and an average per capita water consumption
of 65 liters/day, the average water and sewerage bill would be about JD 5
per month, which represents about 4.6 percent of the household income and
is considered affordable. By comparison, a household would pay up to JD 5
per month for emptying cesspools alone. On the other hand, at present more
than 30 percent of water sold is charged at the highest block tariff, which
exceeds the LRAIC. This confirms the present appropriateness of tariff
levels and establishes a willingness to pay for the actual costs of the
water.



- 11 -
Proiect Benefits and Ri c         -
54.      The proposed peject ix the least-cost solution for improving the
sewage collection and djSpoSal %ystems and the water distribution network
in the Greater Amman arUA, 'hk'h have come under tremendous pressure in
recent years. The projgat s'totlLt pro'vide sewerage services to about 150,000
urban poor or about 30 pareAnt 'f tte population covered under this
A4       project. The benefits ge=lnt)a from the project would be substantial but
cannot be meaningfully  a40Wtifi-d. In assessing these benefits. reducing
the incidence of waterburjte iftectious diseases and the pollution of waters
used for various purposg j4d aZ,rovements in the quality of life are all
important factors.  Usi   l she revenues Erom sewerage as a proxy of the
benefits accruing from ^ ; prQoect, the economic rate of return would be
about 8 percent.  HoweveP, thi% toeS not take adequate account of important
socio-economic benefits ko Pe derived from this project including: (i)
improved water supply auA sflte%qed sewage collection systems, which would
result in enhanced hygiVAic st;4dards and subsequently bave a favorable
impact on general healtb eonditions; (ii) the reduction in cesspool
effluents percolating iito the %round to enable the continued use of
groundwater sources for ko^t-I water supplY thus avoiding replacement by
far more costly alternatieS; ;%d (iii) the use of treated effluents for
irrigation purposes whieA ,uOul4 contribute to agricultural development and
improve the use of JordoaR's sc-kce water sources.
55.      The project wotsd CoOtilue the Bank's assistance to Jordan in
str  sthenin  sector i      t       started under previous credits and
.Loans.  The creation of tlie WA jrgs SuppOrted by the recent water sector
study and is the princitl step rowards rationalization and higher
efficiency in the use of 1pter. Given the favorable response of Jordan to
the Bank's analysis of  %teCQr lggues and policy recommendations, it is
appropriate that the Baik ntiQtie to play an active role in the future
evolution of the WA and Cke settor. The project would provide a continuing
opportunity to help dev't,01  the technical and financial nanagement
capabilities of WA staff tU1Z'out) association with supermision consultants
and Bank staff.
56.      Risks.  Major project risks relate to: (i) initial difficulties
that could be encountereal ink the development of the WA, which could affect
the timing of project    ei0; and (ii) the possibility of not achieving
the projected number of SE*r to%nections which could affect the WA's
income and overall fint 1pct1 viability. -The possibility of delays and
resulting higher costs Ave been taken into account in preparing the
project ,schedule and co_t e%tiUaves-  Furthermore, all necessary actions
have been or will be tajQ% in Order to assist the WA in the timely
-completion of the projuk such as the appointment of qualified staff,
advisors and consultantj%  ?reseot trends indicate a willingness among the
population to connect to the S%eWge system which in general would also
provide cost savings. St iaprrOved tariff structure would make related
costs for the water sulply a-nd sewerage services more affordable to the
lower income group and st%*equ%ntly enable projected revenues to be
realized. Thus, the ris\c tiav't been reduced to a reasonable level through
the precautionary measVft inCluded in the project.



PART V     LE    1116A .MENTS AND _AUTORIT'
57.      The draft Loan Agreement berween the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
and the Bank, the draft Project A%remept between the Bank and the Water
Authority of Jordan (WA), and the [efOrt of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of'the 4Agticles of Agreement oF the Bank are
being distributed separately."
58.      Special conditions of the p1oject are li-ed in Section III of
Annex III.  A special condition or effectiveness ot the Bank loan is the
execution of the subsidiary loan b0reflett between the Government and the
WA (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
59.      I am satisfied that the ,roa,oged loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI  -          MOIJIATI10N,
60.      I recommend that the Exetttive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
December 5, 1984



- 19 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
mi1M                  - sods. iuDcnaS DATA S
joRDins                             urEUs     maums cIcuna A UAISS) p
MOST                (NMST UCUIT ETDIAT) /b
IUCRNT        NmDau N iC=           amac  TVci
ViLk      as7:ol    U.snvial    M. anca  m aD ca         LAT. aazca a Ca
-m (nau BQ. me
TOTAL                               97.7        97.7       97.7
AGRICULTIURAL                       12.0        14.0       14.3
w   M CaP    (Ul)                       ..        390.Oc    1690.0 IC          11*9.6                2101.6
(KLoGRAM  OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      127.0       211.0      706.0              622.1                 995.3
POPULATION.IZ`-UAR (7hOUSANDS)    165.0       229.0      3127.0
URBN POPULAInO  (2 OF TOTAL)        42.7        50.5       59.9              48.2                   64.3
PoPnATion  PROECTIONS
POIPUATION IN DEAR 2000 (MLL)                             6.2
STATIOAR  POPULATlON (HIL)                                11.2
POPULATION ICHEnTU                                        2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                       17.3        23.5        30.9              36.3                  35.7
PER SQ. DI. AGIR. LAID           141.4       166.2      203.9             461.7                   92.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (C)
D-14 YRS                         44.6        35-.       66.1              43.6                   39.9
15-64 its                         51.3        31.0       51.5              53.1                   56.0
65 AND ADVE                           t        3.1,       2.6               3.3                    4.1
POPULATION CROUTH RATE (Z)
rTOAL                              3           3.0        2.6               2.8                    2.6
URAN                               5.2         4.7        4.0               4.3                    3.6
CRIME IRTs RATE (PER TOUS)          47.4        47.6       64.9              40.4                   31.3
CRUOE DEATH KATE (PER TNOUSj        19.9        15-5        3.1              Il- S8.1
GROSS EURODUCTION NATE               3.S         3.5        3.2               2.8                    2.0
FAtMI  PLANNNG
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..
USERS CE OF MIRED UIEN)             ..        22.0 /d    23.0 Is           22.2                   40.3
FOOD AM 001rn
INDEX UF FOOD ROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      Z20.0        79.0       70.0              97.3                  114.3
PER CAPITA SUILY OF
cALORIES (C o0 REQUIREMENTS)      93.0        93.0       102.0             110.6                 110.6
PROEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           61.0        35.0       64.0              70.1                   67.3
OF UIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       15.0        13.0        16.0 If           17.6                  34.1,
CHILD (ACES 1-4) fEiTn RATE         26.3        12.5        6.0              14.6                    5.7
WALTS
LIFE EXPECT. AT 8IRrN (YEARS)      46.9         54.1       64.0              57.5                   64.7
27ASNT tfRT. RATE (PER tNOUS)     t35.5         97.5       64.6             101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                             21.3          ..       80.0 Ic            59.7                  65.4
URBA                              8.             .                         64.5                   78.1
RURAL                              2.1          ..         ,.               38.6                  46.2
ACCESS TO ERCUETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       78.0 /c              *-                  32.9
URBAN                               ,.          .,         ..                ..                   67.0
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                ..                   24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5800.0      3780.0     1700.0            4345.1                 1917.7
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON           1930.0,   1480.0       1180.0             1631.1                 815.8
POP. PER HUSPITAL KEE
U'             TrouL                             560.0     l1SO0.      1O30O b            43.9                   367.2
URBAN                                       1120-0      60.0 7F            343.5                 411.5
RURAL                                       SO.o           .-             2313.5                2636.3
ADMSSIONOS PER HOSPITAL BED           .         36.S       43.7 /f            26.2                  27.3
AVERAGE SIE OF HOUSEKOLO
TOTAL                              5.3         6.1         6.7 /c.i
URIAN                              5.3          ..
RURAL                              5.1          ..
AVERACE N0. OF PERSONS/KlO'
TrAL                                ..          --         6.5 /c.i
URBAIN                              ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF WELLINGS)
TOTAL                             17.0          ..          66.0            46.2
URBAN                             39.2          .        S. Oa o,E'T        77.7
RURAL                              1.4          ..        3.0 7T            16.1.



-20-                                        AM=F L
Page 2of 6
N.M. - EACIAL ZICAODATA M
iiiUI(N F  1 D Anm    .
ir.oek   ~g,a&  *NU   IO             MI=S  140
znmL'uLk    H. AIRUCA 6 MD mmf    iA:. Mwsa     m
ALU        sAAA         RAnOl
JINUtlN    SO1L                    77.0         72.0       101-0               U83                    10.4
XALR                     *4.o         79.0       105.0o             1 02.5                  106.3
FvmOz                    W.o0         63.0       100.0               73.6                   104.5
SUC0UDIh TOTAL                      25.0         30                             43.0                    42.2                       p
HALK                     36.0         *1.0        79.0f              52.3                    4.3
F10=                     13.0         24 0        7 6. 0              2 .0                    4.
VOCATI1   (Z 0o  SICOU1I0T)            2.7          3.0         6.1 IC            10.3                    33.6
FIUPIL-TAcm 68120O
n                                   24.0         39o.0   .0                     2 30.3                  30.1
SRmuDAa                             20.0         23.0        21.0               23.1                    16.3
ADULT LIrIRAC! 6    (C)               32.4           ..        70.0               43.5                    79.5
PASSROM& CA S/21011AND POP             3.7          6.7        30.7               17.6                    46.0
RADIO AWCZ    /1U D F0P               37.6        160.9       133.4              136.6                    2.6
TV   .UIrRmbINUIID  POP                  .         20.0        56.5               46.1                   107.2
uUIPAl   (AOULT   ehA
INTRRET-) McfULAT3
M  rA0B530 UIDMATIO                 16.3         24.4        31.3               3 21.2                   63.5
CI3qA AIUIL ATTUDACZCAnTA              3.2          0.9         5.3                1.7                     2.6
Us -
TOTAL LAN0R 0R CTUSIU)               432.0        56.0        754.0
FUA   (IIUC )                        5.0          5.6         6.6               10.6                    25.1
AiUCULTU   (PUCUNS)                 44.0         34.0        20.0               42.4                    21.5
13422Y (116813?)                    26.0          9.0        20.0               27.9                    23.9
P1ATCIEZZON RATZ ("mRCUIT
TOTAL                               25.5         24.7        24.1               26.2                    32.2
KALE                                44.7         45.5        43.5               46.4                    49.2
13001                                2.'          2.6         3.3                5.6                    15.2
ZCUONIOC DEnDUCK RATIO                 1.3          2.0         2.0                1.8                     1.4
2zonwo Er
NrNST3 or nn     usn     w
USUZT 201 or UouSU                                             ..
*133  203 01 ROSU                     ........
1.0233 20S CI 3053M                   ........
LOUIS 400   OUSKUo.                   ..
hS!DIATE  ABSOLUT  P09V31  1300H
LIVML (US$ FM CAPITA)
U1S3                                  ..           ..       230.0 II           274.8                   266.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       100.0 7            177.2                   164.0
ZSTDEMTED RELATIVE POM331 I-9.
upEL (U1 3.1 CAPIT)
033W                                  ..           ..       206.0 If           402.6                   522.4
UL                                    ..           ..       13.0               284.9                   372.4
ZSDU    o. 3.N0IB     ABSOLUT
Poimy INOMr LEVEL CZ)
U&U...                                                       14.0 A                ..  
RURAL                                 ...                    17.0 it...
MrT AhflAM.ASZ 
MOr APICAILR
X o T r S
/a  rhe  amp averaa for *mb InIloater an p.518t1s-a4hte   arit_tSec _eal. Ceasreas et ce_trie o                    the
indicators depen. 0n WBlIbllty of dota  3  Le set 111teem.
/b XU.1.   ethetulu  eetd. 'ftt  ftr 160' rater te eW 7er betrw           113 a nd 1961; 'DaU tar 1970' betum   I    MM
1971; end dat  for iket  bemat Bstlat ' bet,  190 3  1962.
/c   Rgt  Bok, ad 1972; I. 1976; fl 1977;  L 1962; /b  978; S 1979.
_. 196



-21-                                                                              AmII  I
MP[-tTIG  M SKIALIWI-CA"MPage=3of  6
Ifteod    U.haf the isIs *ll dIe   lm  -u,o. is-alr j.dgsd lb  -           -Ch- llslth       rul tilh. S. "Clii *i.. he lodo l.  vhe, hem ledf l.eim tem=ii
andow"lI. hem.f the ito" of u-ll rsgll d isiltlgen a.d 1h-he9. degd hp 41115'55"= eloo I. s.l.uql  o.m.  lW.e   .. mal                         lbes.. wesUl I
heIdi's elisl 5ff  Ws.". tIlIhel  an.". she s'moodet5  ""St.s hejhe4l*h6dhehh    ml
Osc S  u.1.1..  .win  Is  Uih eem dot tbo -ea.  -5.                  heddi. _14110w61w 51.6 MI. cl h       Idi. t.M   am IbIs. h....s ci .jl.. v of gig-.   ""l..
9-1h1 he. is. .   CI.. i.b    ll.   hId, the  -.... .g.S   -alln-tI     g Sb IlCtIean dua..i  he the ne.tllstil Of "I.S"l        t C    -if-   noun.M  lhewl 11
.s.a,vid Is  L.1llq  noudee Co -    "Iiegi, a. dooihol.  It..  .m..u.. en  ILLIP ahigI 1. a.-ns   lb  ml.., of he t.wiale  We C cam                  lb a   mmmi7 ad
~~~ illmead he.he. 3   ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dMl   ij;.ul" I                                        L ..ilh   1ud    .s.boo. sm.ttet5
q.1.1hell.....  uW09864  W.IS wal ns   I.siminsav& IWO.                          ibii        llmlm    .i.l.b.iaOR  .emil asemi.
s.  lbSl dfte,.M                                                                                                  - Fts'iels  ftuSd br -0- W1 pImte
.M    oon esI-n  -1 hi.M- CRIMad -e t. L isilmi- 1ih.                         malle  -Sateasd..
du..                                       b                                                                  to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~  Ihaidmis
G%fg,W        C-  W  ..  Let.  Olih             .s.aen  -fts.pim...i.                             S. nedt. aId wantl  9-dow 'A m eLu.Iid&&od hdms.i.c  o
_ uinCIsd       Ime-othed embld h   14M ls.. ila15641h.4I                                ,MmhiLglst   hehegIl. hespiedil  Bemm*l e                 e phib
Slid. lton. dod 11131 d.I.                                                                  lhe d   .inI 0W 9Wpe.&CO.   elbt. ft"     gwss'116 fhWiV           e.
.II. o     edom     -   gel od' 11m.he- lhel.                      mhe. .151ft. -e..I a1* giig. &Igodehe   - ism               s.-
.5 ."stlh Lh .I'lriettY) Se hillile    *I .41 equal."sh   " iswimgl.,a. IWO.              l dheIs  ILIOde to   of coolant imlilhlm.
tll11. s.d lie, "So.                                                                     S"in.ULli.  - idell .A-    Iheh                          Lot h he Ohemlis
iielb.4b1i4.idWlbw todo .1 %wo.
he    hemel  mmti  nll-htc   lte.1 ii.llhego ld el-lllT                                                          ~S Zs.L.L1..,
dat..m    .ISIm    ..   .e.md d   ultot. s.men.ltma  li iee                             s.d  LS,e "MA  mat..  S& bnds'M he l wd     W  orhwe   l 0W  mh 9-S.Od 
u-qSheIlthe  116. 1930. ml Lsseila..                                                  th   h idi  he.tss. 1...
- '..s.   mlil   pme..Cite  dem Ndi -  too                                            a d                                                  m's
"'he.    ml mei  Iir hent.ilt  ml issftillaw                                             mil..  e.a glm.    bIM1lI.   no.Iml    ,psual  sl.s5s  m
them. P1.3.5M    egmsee. Id           "'letoy les   p ido, do slas                      omshepLed Own..
det"WsI .ms.i   LI. slW   het  tIll   adult toatt cI',  onehl*  pg.                          l 3"Al#ll5                                stthb.   l
Pnt-min gg1.e..  Walk elm.r S. lb.e mnAlld em .1Olbs. l
a iu.I i-a is4em no   at*ti    ...W. ml ms.ps.tIi  =et.lI                         M                 s'- sie   el.in.  l   m
let.. .~he  -  d K. She      .1he IllIhe     to-e. elfiSte FgL&Iltrt7-. od t
%a hmsitsml  Ilmhe  an". O`1he vswemi  (em                illlls.ly sisiM                                Ihl   IsM i,heM              ilsmdli
leIII.ie let.11.   e e.l 5  ss.iiim.the  iglhmm I  imlwe..bi llmIe  let dilgm_                       elba  ed wha? .          diel 
,Ml gil  I. the  d-sah  owl. th  16   IlWg  egle           :ae.  ml gh                        .lm het   mImig! ibme    mmll             mybb   G%t&   ahe   41sma
"'mi Igtg U sgg. lj.   - Ilhme P."   boim tits ban   hellNl    ml'seiem lb  miS  em bus. et ibm  sh  .41 .1.1   nionl m..r
illS. mlthe  ltoo. .9  Ms.tiou., NetutiI, '.i - ig nplmml    do mi.                       asI.  metes  he .es.i -0  ,--     .99Uge.sL siless SP.htI
- So M        ."lb    's-gel? IgI   A. poojuet e S.. l IhtIe                     plimb  IsmL. n-.lit.9   fastaeeb  Iflpelli hel sinl    I..
lm. mlb it..a lb. ghellllheli-iggl 1.-lit. hahL .h.ed 141.5                               emIl.    Can,   i .eI Iil   ml  apeno  atllb    hdeu
1g. em gl..  b  m  SWll.l e-    Ido ha lembi Sanil.  it-latoh,  ity  mift.   ~~.W"CNeag18Lgt~
glL.g.l                 1  ntitii, ..Ig h  '    .meg.     aCMtic @4          Pt lb  LImg    do 1 15 Eihe.  CI M  .dq..5  - h.l     lmlte
gIiht. aet. I5 -PeheKtl  We ibseLegim  II lb:  -  j, at.                           lligs&g.tt i.-   Ills' 9"Wm.hi*  inin
-Stl.1. *.  411. s.dbt-& 1111dat.                                                   hi..  l.. . soo te 'sI.ls.        tll   iil   h   s.    g  911
.i-lIWO  Il              4 116 1 dIl.                                                                                          Ol     ..
slegl d.   M L-O. 11 5..   1163 deggs.   P-Lq           .4
heinm~~7slhW5e~1.1                                                              'gmiAaSgsI  gh   9  11    i  tll.   4.m
ml 111142.  ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     l. l~~ml                          t16)t i   -9 =1  t  El   ml  s'Il
semletlm  is. is  . tinsle., me 1110-el.                           heilmms~~~~~-11-.d nomieo   . Interim  on  Se yam  thou .mlgml   W1 Idle
ne.sesielhe:I~5e. 519 nml at6 igee.    %  p     --Wf  4                           emmht. a    fa eblmlitlmil- fm        - Wotb   m-L                      f
tod's    gll~5.  thf mgwl - Ami dSIlb P. .ms-d of ldis                                                             4L..   is  5m4m.5   bi hlmls    i
lIhelItmIld. 91. cl Ie.           ilt.em.  s.igt.m  gamd- t     mI-   -.--l   111 Imimd
W=.  bgInet&ll  2.le - A-Col,g emI.1 or fteaf.    -dwO  ll SmlouA I.                        i  ama.. me  . Bodell Mm IlillIhLl  a1 or m. emw ilefI
IwiSitIl 1Mm  meALy ea I.-, e lp.  tsli. L. low.  lslo. ml-                                      ie.L,msl..egg.                                im          slim
3162.                                                            g&Uml~~~~~~~~~~~~~tm  .sg  PiSIll  1. nseonate gemin  MO.  it 1    mbl
.9 tllh-l.t,g  isll    .me  empm  gJ M -tm    -iMMhI                              . d chmiei lj.  W *         .ud  Sat    'sing he lbN    m
notIs.                                                                                    it             .6te..6                     ssmI   111   Ie.i
MI   kwidle,l   is l       .- t.lwtli    - Cl.. hahai F ..
.L&id-betL.   -l g pl geaili m     .0d I1--". ot"Oull I.. se                               iiMh,.tb.i    I m S                          U    Im.Iee e s.
em.lthe  F9 .11 M. 4bW"loolde 1. .selem  =m i  em" em
mhlsi, am. Ills me -=I 415.
lIds  lUled  ledglImdl ~5tlI(IW-P 11301 - lIs.1 wo, owolitE                       PML-emi     1*19 fl  in pim pm.8 .- ega &.h- Iis.
Im   IdI.  .em111   eI.Cmdl-c.    hmyed "P..                                       lIleels      Im..- Ub icelt Se. 1.1mg  IWO  191  Rml  el ad.
Fad1. -d  Is   l   s..l    Isse10.. elSegl sem-ip t_                g tittttl  em-                           mli ae   Unem 1-   theal two - 1g...  fte. 
Sine      IldhtF 4cs.-I -1011 ..t  .lil. -1  -.9-.  1919-. So.,.                                                  ! heR2l ml  ml din..8-o
d.i.t   W  - -n ).ft.a. nbto-u                                                                          - 7  .  igr.ei  P. .e . Low   ml Mete -" y.let aimI   h
t, mlls lel -&-    1.-.111 ned-t.,  II- Mm.ll.s..l.I -          t   Nm                    Islfig  tIleSe   .gs   1lse.ht..dmt   cs  smh
= gr... ad cheqm , o     tmi.  Is.  mstl    chej  alm           iesl .in..                predestineg-s . l'gt5l'5 a0 lt-t gmienlhe .    S.4  Sha             L-A. 
-"IlLhe      I -lIed ylls.iq   ml te. P C  -sIlttIS-.  hem..-Is. glIemh   mI.    ml.4 d_   M- !   m lls.                           -  M.
me ...Wmemdhelaa                      he 91 g e.-Inei -s.i A ill   -demi                 ree1af =          'nwo,lP  - bIte gi lm LO.   "  W" ml4n        l o    
unneti  ml heelI lIsgde"I    sesl   lem.s    a..thg b-                                                              (lb.. M.0  iS-l4).
.d`                          %adno~g  m Ltd 1ils: 1141.61. ton1 ml mlel.                                           w E5li
'*      WI 11511 and! II sldI". t     L,s  W  t) t - o ss.1.hul Oi &51  I-et              lt.e    neftoeMs                                             b hSl_i_l1.)-bt.e lIMm or
*  -                      silmeseA row.. .i  e Id  to.i   .1  Es-e 51. .. s dg,1 ml 25I     m ieim
.F MImi   utei   ma   m.q   is' -h14e. *icalli he WO. lb                                  Mm3d he Iladon,sll .i.h allfif.lhSe emlted.
1tM WLs'd rind Issyl,: 01161. toll eti Ihe" ihI.                                        eItnl   .1  PhlIhe   i5iflIstylc                             am.aj-
doet-nf,   tii  empIest   l    Ml  -F:  M_I-a. liii ImlSol,                              inlgtllmht sam..l dim Plm hesmadid  emI.  lm.=C  I.e
aslltld.. gg       Is. ito. tmlsino1. 1111 ml 1161 del..                            .e..g    m c  lb. tlml.  i-ls. Sem  is -eItn  Irs lbt 114.d
heAi.W  ~ ~    ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~      ~ *~~~a       Jm-1-        ti I        f- Oua
U,   mt.L II.In  .-C-0s  - 1511g    -l   l    .hl cI i-. eits                         f.5.P'nt4    s l.=                                     h lihillSCI.es.sihee m
111.1  bangll  5.t* 1m  lb.sml -o MMEi TCA       b g9-6l.e tood s. of-
A e.9le.  salg .-rll   t.4 -.g.t. -  Id -L,gg   ml. rs'gl
m5Ill~sie..em  -t.l f.m  pIMelttu         hethis.  .51114. -_b   1
lim  hdemsOe mp on"O"ds.  "y"  Meegdt "t .meghl. lmI"ol 54l
als.g   S. ILeelm   slbi  gmgmS    mi  t. h  



- 22 -                                                  AZIm I
Pop 4of 6
X-  - EMN3=c no
Popuatiot: 2.6 willim (1993) I/
QG  per capit*  US L,710 (19633 ,Y
Ammaat                                             Amuw sl Goth
Indicator              (Illian USS at                      Acca3l (at 1960 PrVa)                           PRMecc  (at 1960 pr
cwrmt prices)
1963              1977   1978   1979   198D   1961   1962       1993 3/    1984    1965    1986    1987
Gross dwmtic pzru&t        4,098              12.4   21.5    9.1   10.8    7.4    7.1        5.5         5.0     5.5     5.0     5.0
Agriculure              273               1.0   25.0  -29.0   39.0   11.6    9.7       12.6         5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Industry              1,1324             24.2   27.0   19.2   11.5   13.2    0.3        3.8        10.8    10.7     8.0     7.0
Services              2,223              10.1   18.9   10.2    7.9    4.3    8.9        4.8         2.4     3.0     3.5     3.7
ciujqtico                  4,760              15.3   18.9   17.3  -7.6    6.4    3.8         4.9        1.7     4.5      5.1     5.0
Gmss Investnt              1,621              28.3    5.6   10.5   17.2   24.2    2.4       -5.7        1.0   -5.6   -7.0   -1.3
Exports CUS                1,760              19.2   10.4   20.4   24.1   24.9    1.5      -9.1         9.0    10.1     9.4      7.0
Lworts of GMS              4,043              21.8    9.7   26.4  -1.7   27.4  -08          -6.2        1A      3.0     3.5     4.4
Crow Natiol Product        4,056              13.1   18.2    7.7    6.8    8.2    7.4        1.2        4.0      5.0    4.2      4.3
PR1Z
ar Deflator                              67.9   72.8   82.5  100.0  116.5  123.7    129.9
Eehange Rate                              3.04   3.26   3.33   3.35   3.07   2.84       2.76
gu-e of GU at Markt Pricas CZ)        -ti. Amma isce
(at errmt prices)                           (at ctant Pries)
1975    1980    1965                    1978-83    19864-7    1987-90
Giss Dstic pWirct                                      96.0   100.8    97.8                      10.3        5.1       4.9
Agriculture                                        7.8     6.6     6.3                       10.2       5.0        5.0
ThuAtri                                           21.8    26.7    34.5                      14.1        9.1        7.5
Services                                          59.7    57.9    57.1                       8.9        3.2        3.3
Coomzqiticn                                           123.8   109.8   114.5                       7.4        4.9        4.0
Gross invesatue                                        26.5    40.8    38.6                       8.8       -3.2        4.2
Eqoxs of G(S                                           35.5    47.9    58.0                      13.6        8.8        7.0
Uror  of GUS                                           90.1    97.2   102.5                       9.7        4.1        4.9
O]ss Ntiail Produrt                                   100.0   100.0   100.0                       8.0        4.6        4.3
Net Factor I                                            4.1   -0.8      2.2                                   -         -
Grs  Ntiotwl Saviug                                   -23.8   -9.8  -14.5                          -          -         -
As 2 of GP
(at currnt prices)
1975       1960       1985
FMIC FDWNZ
Dowtic Ieveas                       24.8       22.0       23.4
0rraent Expearditu                  37.6       33.9       23.4
&adetazy Savirga                   -12.8      -10.0        0.0
Capital Ependitures                 23.6       22.9       12.7
Foreign Fixaciig                    34.8       27.7       11.8                                                                        4
of which foein grnts              30.0        20.5       7.0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1978-62    198-87
anER BDXICAS
ICOR                               5_4         5.9
Minga. Cm" National
SaviWg Ratte                    -2.8         3.8
Iqot  Elasticity (goois)           1.2        0.6
1/ East Bak anly.
2/ Preliminary estinte based an the revised seies of national accumts to be discussed with the Gtwrnment, which exrludes xerittaces ft. lag
tem reSientS abroad that are considered capital t fes.
3/ Prliminary estiffnte.
s     xIIc
October 1984
01855



-23-
AN= I
PA 5 of 6
Am=i                                             " A a.  Dd (Mtb Rom  
IzHCIcDn              CofUicam lm                       A 1m1 (M 1960 wwt)                          fto  ud(at 19W pces)mm
196              17   1977 8   1979  19W    191 198         198321   198A   1985   1996   1911
1Eiue   n 4l             "I              27.3   6.7  22.5    29   31.1   2.1         -0       10.1    U9      9.5    8.5
priix                 255             13.1   5.5   16.   2662   18.5  -3.2         .0      140    10.5    9.6       7
-                     155             73.9   9.1  35.6  17.0  59.0   8.5          -1        5.0   I1.5    9.4    8.3
1_Aige                 3.WA              3,2   -1.3  ILLS    7.8  27.4  -L.         -6.2       LA     3.0    3.5    4.4
F=od                  497            -14.2  25.8   8.9    7.1  316    6.           6.0      1.5    4.0    4.0    4.5
PCI                    5       S5   19.1  -13.2  30.3  423   193   22.0            1.1      3      4.0     4.0    4.0
73 andeup= 7c23                    43.5  -3.5  -tL.7   136   56.6  -13.0    -ILO        L-0     LO      LO      LO
1,Z39            39.5  -9.8   27.5  -34    193    0.5         9.1      1.      3.0    3.5    4.4
PREQS                                          U9- (IOD)                 tl91D -IDO)
Dqiot= vice iw           _               86.1  85.8  9Csr2  169  107.5  113.2       90.3      97.5  101    1124   116
ht pwie i                               112  114.8  13I.5  150.4  U3.6  119.4       96.2     97.5  103   112.1  118.1
Mm    E             -               7L7   74.7  67.6   7L11   96.6  9Wo8       95.9    100.D  100.8  1003   10Q.4
Ququszim  E ofc nise Me C                         k       Am1 Q     Fcb PRA
(at        pics)                             (at  ct pice)
1975     I=      1957                          I978-83      iI.7
boom                                          10o. 100.0 loo                                    n.9           9.8
FE7                                         179.8    46.8    57.8                             82           10.7
_      sf~                                  20.2      53.2    42.2                            19.2         8.6
:accs                                         M0.O    10o.0   100.                               6.6          3.1
Food                                       2Z.2       167     1                               9.7          3.5
Fetgo1~                                     10.6     21.0   323                               16_8 -       3.8
!aizrAny ad  Miizi- 3L6                              2.O    23.7                               3.9         LO
de                                          35.5     34.3    33.8                             9.0          3.1
Ume of Toca EqOxTS (2)            9            oE 1oel 1or (Z)
DE          O ITg                                     L975      1983
'ped     . e_me                                  17.6       4.9                            62.6        46.3
1Du._opiig   *  amas                                 70.2       8Z.0                           29.2        46.5
of J6kh k c r                                       42.4      63.3                           19.8        486
(mrauy pI   md                                       12.2       13.L                            8.2         7.3
aMM a'z-c
..  21 Prelimdzuiy ~~~~~~~~~~-                                                    OiSS



- 21 -
6.16
m -                  5 suM.  Lam mL
(ofim.    4 t          wi'..1cm
1376    1377    138    199Du 1981    1381                  irnm         i~               i~s    uui    urn
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
nvte  of s a ssrim                101 L   I        '       1819    269      3205   3AX.    3036           357    40           U     4A73    VA            -
Of Aidr  kM1VCdiae LO.6            207     26,9    297      40       57      742      7.9     579                   a       960    I=       17
1acker v                 4J1      470     520      600     792    I            UE1    D11         16    YM        1S1    63s  ? 9
iumsa of gxts &                    Lwmi  1D    1711    26   2872    P.=4    4550    4564    1235           1.51     4.91     MS    6070    MM
Of 'izi  Hrbmdim Lo.b             10D     L37i    1497    2957   d93           7     M       3030         MM.81    36      3M9    4233    53
na            as            20      b6       65      SD      15       159     15      200           212     2Lt      192     18       174
Na t      cs   V                    311    5Mr       347   ':6       335    13Z1      155      811          So       SW      SO       S       5   .
n    acwu  ba                       52       -7    -20        -7     374      -26    -335    -S            -393    -412    -S1       -597    -M
Pfiv ;    divoctimmost             -10       Ii      56       26      31       67      9n       a            50      110     118      127     IS
MX lm   (rAc)                        71     190    1mg       1S       232     2.74    12x   219             213      Ift     49       565    10
Offsial                             70      8s      12      143      20      20       27      16           1        1       361      396     707
FICime                              I      1m       77       SD      -6       -9     -2        55           65       55     w   DO           33
Capitol                      -Y.     -21      278      20D    -6      -398    -29D        3            -        -       -        -       -
cw   in r                          -59    -1       -73    -2-w   -371          83      2z      136          10D    is        -W       -Z95    -f
izgur_iu  ra                       567      740     983    1215    15        103     1211    1075           965      8D      919    011      1353
OE f%ich- bDd                       8o      81.      81.     dZ      208     198      19      20           Z        20      ZDO      20D     Z00
kinerea as    *e of uqacs            5.0      5.1     5.6      5.2     5.5      4.5     3.2      31           2.5      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0
E E CAML AD M
Cruse di                            91     214      223     250      306     407      36      mL
(    .ssim11m                     SD0     9*      119     151      133     126      11.     22V
M11L                            6       9        6      13        9       3       4        -
odaw                           7       35      113     Li s      1      123      13      22S
l      1uuim.1  aso               1      12 0      5 1%    99      173     22       191      97
OfficialL     p    credits      3       3        8       2       97     159       9       10
I=|Sj                           -       -       -        -       22      19       U       33
0dXr -i rara.1                  -       -        -       7       14       6       3D      15
Pturi                           8     117       96      86      40       98       56      49
Fg  debC
Deb atutdiu   A
dinhud                           410     623    8a1    168     1266   1M41           5    1i3
Official                      361     46       609     765      993  ;:26    14         122
Ptiua                          109    15       232     283      273     256      Zm1     50
Uniidwmd deic                    274     59        25     863   IZI       995      831     521
DkbC   aice
c aavwe - jmz                    27      38       58      96      133     182      193     226
1ntet                           8      15      24       40      58       Ii      6Q       98
Pajmsa1 aZeq irts                  2.7     3.2     4.0      5.3      54      5.7     6.1      7.4
s   ztm
u   laas (Z)                       2.4     6.0      6.3     5.3      6.8     53      6.0      7.0
b utuity
of    Ioms (years)                25.6    14    18.1    21.4    14.8    17.7    20.1    17.0
- ff.
s      E UA  1am (yrs)             6.6     3.5      5.6     6.7      3.8     4.3      5.0     4.1
at  d of must ROut Yew (198)
kumity stmu  of debt aE       di
Matties d6. %itb  5 ys                                       39.0
I_witua  du wigbn 10 5ye9
Inest src-Atbe of debt agst.dirz
lAewmc due withi first ya                                     6.0
-  Da  Mt c.id1e-                                                                                                                     EM   CPU-C
V    t of gu    ad aE EC. iW_l.diCK VECiCCW1t6erIS
t a1lofi   twaequirad t!F   tby log cem vaido  mlis abroad5



- 25 -
AM=E 3U
Page 1 of 2
TE STATUS OF BANK GROP OPBRrONS IN JODMAN al
A. STATENT OF BANK LOANS AIM IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amout
Fiscal                                           (less camcellatiuQ )
Number Year        Borrower      Purpose               Bank     IDA.  IndUbm.e
Fifteen credits
fully disbursed   Jordan                                        86.1
Two loans fully
disbursed            "                               50.0                  -
1781   1979        Jordan        Education III         19.0                7.9
1826   1980          "           CVDB                 10.0                 5.3
1893   1980          "           Urban Development   21.0                 15.4
1986   1981                      Power IV             25.0                 7.9
2068   1982                       Education IV        25.0                 21.7
2162   1982           n          Power V              35.0               217.
2213   1983           n          Water Supply and
Sewerage         17.0                16.9
2246   1983                       Education V          18.8                18.7
2334   1983           n          Urban Transport      30.0                 30.0
2371   1984                      Energy Devt. I       30.0                 30.0
2378   1984           n          Education VI         40.0                40.0
2425   1984                      Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage       30.0                 30.0
2463   1985           -          Multi-Node Transport 30.0                 30.0
TOTAL                                                380.8       86.1    281.4
of which has been repaid                1.9      2.8
Total now held by BanluIDA bl         378.9      83.3
a/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a sewarate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/ Includes exchange rate adjustments.



- 26 -
AMNNX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESThENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Year           Obligor         Type of Business        Loan    E           Total
-  __US1 i3 liou-
1974         Jordan Ceramic
Ind. Co. Ltd.   Ceramic Tiles            1.6        0.2      1.8
1975/        Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82       Xnd. Co.        Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5 1/    8.7       88.2 1/
1979         Jordan Line and
Silicate  .       Building Materials      2.5        0.7      3.2
1979         Jordan Securities Money & Capital
Corp.              Market                            0.7      0.7
1980         Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.          Leasing               -           C.3      0.3
Total Commitments                        83.6 1J    10.6    94.2 I/
Less Comitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                59.0 1/    0.7    59.7 1/
Total Comments now held by IFC                    24.6        9.9    34.5
Total Undisbursed                             -           -      -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.
16



- 27 -
ANNEX III
HASHEMITE KINGDOH OF JORDAN
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare the project:   7 months (November 1983
to June 1984)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:             Water Authority of Jordan
(WA)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:         November 1983
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission;        June 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:             November 12, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness;                 June 1985
Section II; Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) WA to assist low-income families with appropriate arrangements for
sever connections (para. 43).
(b) WA to observe agreed revenue conditions for water supply and sewerage
operations (para. 50).
(c) Government to compensate WA for any deficits from operations of its
tankers and at water points (para. 50).



JORDAN                                        ........
GREATER AMMAN WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                 ,
PROPOSID PROJECT                                          I          S Uhnrt
3  Sowoango T,oatmOnt WOtks                                                          DISTInCT OF AJLUN
-  Tru*nk Mains                                                                     0 `6   -  Z N
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
)  lasq'lm VlaiIey                                        Bo /n worago Troalmont WOa.k
uSwagw   Trestrmnt Wonr                                        PUmping Station
Truink Malns
* /        el a                                         +EXISTING                     I
'a*01ne0 TroatMont Wot/s
Trunk Mains
M ain loAds
F-f-4f RalllE4yoAA                                                       f
Dis-icl D oiIndal&os
RAOA
WaitlOS
Urban Area.
l  M'/MA  OccirpiOd Tertilo,tos
LISANOiN       SYRIAN
ARAB4RA
Se%ago Ticalmon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Wal.                                                              0~~~~~~~ Amman
i~~~~~~
1: C                                                                                                                                                                     I
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 210 \                                                                          SAD ARBI
nofd i DM nprw,d Sy 77 kzmSammm wAA   to ft empwvro
,  iaaCc@b  7 \aW59 Wir aC ftU~~v       i OtETR SW 1  i
|-.asap. l 7   SWimA IO| aim at svmatSr Fmw                                                                                                                      g\wid^j~p
me ft rml 875 Cl *l iw, w my m* alo i Wob  Cl aim C a ii  AmmA |



