CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
Shareholder Agreement
(South-Southeast Power Distribution Project)
between
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978, between STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
(hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and Centrais
Eltricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS (hereinafter called
the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty
million dollars ($130,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, in the Guarantee Agreement of even
date herewith between the Federative Republic of Brazil (herein-
after called the Guarantor) and the Bank, and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Centrais
El'tricas de Minas Gerais S.A. (hereinafter called CEMIG), but
only on condition that the State agree to undertake certain
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the State is the owner and holder of approximately
68% of the issued and outstanding voting shares of stock of CEMIG;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is autho-
rized under the Laws of the State to undertake the obligations
contained in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and into the Guarantee
Agreement with the Guarantor, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 2. The State shall: (i) take all such action as
-,hall be necessary to enable CEMIG to carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices; and (ii) not take or cause or permit any of its
agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere with


﻿- 2 -
the performance by CEMIG of its covenants, agreements and obliga-
tions contained in the Project Agreement.
Section 3. (a) The State shall, as required by the laws in
force of the State, reinvest in capital stock of CEMIG at least
90% of all dividends paid to the State by CEMIG.
(b) The State shall, as required by the laws in force of
the State, invest in capital stock of CEMIG the proceeds of the
imposto unico, established by Law 2308 of 1954 and Law 4676 of
1964, both of the Guarantor, as amended from time to time,
allocated to the State.
(c) In addition to the obligations contained in paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section, the State shall, promptly as needed
by CEMIG to enable it to carry out Part A of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, pay to CEMIG, in accordance with the
laws in force of the State, all such other funds as shall be
required by CEMIG for that purpose.
Section 4. The State shall: (a) participate in the review of
CEMIG's investment and financi.l plans referred to in Section 4.05
(c) of CEMIG's Project Agreement; and (b) use its best efforts, in
accordance with its overall policies, to assist CEMIG in the
carrying out of the plan of action referred to in said Section.
Section 5. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the progress of Part A of the
Project and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the prog-
ress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by the State of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 6. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective or on
a later date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower, the
State and CEMIG notice of its acceptance of the evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 7. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the State thereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-3-
Section 8. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda de
Minas Gerais
Praga da Liberdade
30.000 Belo Horizonte, M.G.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
SEFAZEMG                           031 - 1104
BELO HORIZONTE, MG                 031 - 1254
Section 9. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Secretary of Finance of the State or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
Section 10. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature


﻿-4-
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the State, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 11. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Francisco Afonso Noronha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


