CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
Loan Agreement
(South-Southeast Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A through C of the Project will be carried out by
Centrais El'tricas de Minas Gerais S.A., Centrais Eletricas de
Santa Catarina S.A. and Espfrito Santo Centrais Elftricas S.A.,
respectively, partially with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to them
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in project agreements of even
date herewith between the Bank and Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais S.A., Centrais El'tricas de Santa Catarina S.A. and
Espfrito Santo Centrais Elftricas S.A., respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CEMIG" means Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A.,
established on May 22, 1952 in accordance with Law No. 828, dated


﻿-2-
December 14, 1951, of the State Minas Gerais, which is its major
shareholder.
(b) "CELESC" means Centrais Lletricas de Santa Catarina
S.A., established by Decree No. 22, dated December 9, 1955, of the
State of Santa Catarina, which is its major shareholder.
(c) "ESCELSA" means Espirito Santo Centrais El6tricas S.A.,
established on July 1, 1968, the major shareholder of which is the
Borrower.
(d) "Project Companies" means collectively CEMIG, CELESC and
ESCELSA and "Project Company" means any one of them.
(e) "Project Agreement" means any of the agreements between
the Bank and each of the Project Companies of even date herewith
(hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Project Agree-
ments), as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(f)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means an7 of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Project
Companies pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement (herein-
after sometimes collectively called the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments), as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under a subsidiary
loan agreement.
(g) "States" means collectively the States of Minas Gerais,
Santa Catarina and Espirito Santo of the Guarantor, or any
successor or successors thereto.
(h) "Shareholder Agreement" means any of the agreements
between each of the States and the Bank of even date herewith
(hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Shareholder Agree-
ments), as the same may be amended from time to time.
(i) "Global Guarantee Fund" means the Reserva Global de
Garantia of the Guarantor, established by Decreto-Lei No. 1.383 of
December 26, 1974 of the Guarantor, and regulated by Portaria No.
365 of March 25, 1975 of the Guarantor's Minister of Mines and
Energy, to supplement, when necessary, the revenues obtained by
electric power companies in Brazil from the sale of electricity
in order to ensure the economic and financial equilibrium of such
companies.


﻿-3-
(j) "DNAEE" means the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e
Energia Eltrica of the Guarantor's Ministry of Mines and Energy.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred thirty million dollars ($130,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to khis Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to each
one of the Project Agreements.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. CEMIG, CELESC and ESCELSA are designated as
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with respect to Part A, Part B and Part C of the
Project, respectively.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall: (i) cause ESCELSA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of its Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ESCELSA to perform such obli-
gations; and (ii) not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with the performance of the obligations
of the Project Companies set forth in the respective Project
Agreements in accordance with the provisions thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
the Project Companies under subsidiary loan agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Project Compa-
nies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall review the execution of
the Project by the Project Companies and shall, every six months,
furnish to the Bank reports, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on such execution and on the
performance by the Project Companies of their obligations under
the Project Agreements.
Section 3.03. Promptly after completion of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or


﻿-5-
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Project
Companies and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the Project Agreements aid the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. Whenever the information referred to in Section
4.05 (b) of ESCELSA's Project Agreement shows that the ratio
referred to in subparagraph (iii) of that Section is less than 1.5
to 1 during the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Bor-
rower, shall, within 60 days of a request therefor from the Bank,
carry out a program acceptable to the Bank which enables ESCELSA
to achieve such ratio.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) participate in the
review of CEMIG's investment and financial plans as envisaged in
Section 4.05 (c) of CEMIG's Project Agreement; and (b) use its
best efforts, in accordance with its overall policies, to assist
CEMIG in the carrying out of the plan of action referred to in
said Section.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers and privileges which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
and plan its future expansion, all in accordance with appropriate
financial and public utility practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan,, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof; provided, however, that if any event
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (d) or (e) of this Section
shall have occurred and be continuing, the suspension of the
Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be limited to amounts relent to the Project Company concerned by
such event:
(a) any of the Project Companies shall have failed to
perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of such Project
Company under its respective Project Agreement;
(b) any of the States shall have failed to perform any
covenant, agreement or obligation of such State under its respec-
tive Shareholder Agreement;
(c) a change in the Borrower's Estatutos shall have been
made, which shall materially and adversely affect the operations
or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(d) the Guarantor, the States or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of any of the Project Companies or for the
suspension of its operations; and
(e) a change in the legislation of the Guarantor shall have
occurred which shall materially and adversely affect the carrying
on of any of the Project Companies' business or the setting or
adjustment of any of the Project Companies' rates for the sale of
electricity at such levels as shall be necessary to provide such
Project Company with revenues sufficient to ensure the continued
operation of its business in accordance with appropriate financial
and public utility practices; provided, however, that to the
extent that such revenues shall not be sufficient for that pur-
pose, transfer of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund may be made
by the Guarantor to such Project Company in order to supplement
such revenues.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "change in the
legislation of the Guarantor" shall mean any change (including,


﻿-8 -
but without limitation, any amendment or repeal of, or failure to
carry out or enforce, any such legislation) in the entire body of
legislation of the Guarantor (including, but without limitation,
all constitutional provisions, statutes, laws, decree-laws,
executive decrees and regulations and any other legal provisions
of a similar nature) directly or indirectly relating to the
carrying on of any of the Project Companies' business and the
determination and adjustment of any of the Project Companies'
rates for the sale of electricity.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Project Companies or the States, respec-
tively; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in:
(a) the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(i) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(ii) that the Project Companies have full power and
authority to carry out and to operate their respec-
tive parts of the Project and that all necessary


﻿- 9 -
acts, consents and approvals to be performed or
given by the Guarantor, 4t political subdivisions
or agencies to authorize the carrying out of the
Project and to enable the Borrower and the Project
Companies to perform all of their respective
obligations in this Agreement and the Project
Agreements contained have been duly and validly
performed or given and that no other such acts,
consents or approvals by the Guarantor are required
in order to authorize the carrying out of the
Project and to enable the Borrower and the Project
Companies to perform all of their respective
obligations in this Agreement and the Project
Agreements contained; and
(b) the certificate or certificates to be furnished to the
Bank:
(i) that one of the Project Agreements has been duly
authorized or ratified by the corresponding Project
Company, and is legally binding upon such Project
Company in accordance with its terms; and
(ii) that the Shareholder Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement related to the Project Company
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above have been
duly authorized or ratified by the respective
parties thereto, and are legally binding upon such
parties in accordance with their terms.
Section 7.03. The date August 4, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Centrais El'tricas Brasileiras
S.A. - ELETROBRAS
Av. Presidente Vargas 642, 100 Andar
Caixa Postal, 1639-ZC-00
20000 Rio de Janeiro, R.J.
Brazil
Cable address:                       Telex:
ELETROBRAS                          2122395 CELB or
Rio de Janeiro                      2122034 CELB
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. -
ELETROBRAS
By /s/ Jose Marcondes Brito de Carvalho
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(CEMIG) Equipment and
materials for
(1) Subtransmission              13,000,000      ) 100% of foreign
) expenditures
(2)  Substations                  15,000,000     )  (including
) where appli-
(3) Distribution                  15,0000CO     ) cable expen-
) ditures for
(4) Control and mis-              6,000,000      ) erection and
cellaneous items                            ) installation)
) or 100% of the
(5) Unallocated                   9,100,000      ) ex-factory cost
Sub-total    58,100,000
Part B of the Project
(CELESC) Equipment and
materials for
(6) Subtransmission               6,000,000         100% of foreign
)expenditures
(7) Substations                   8,000,000         (including
)where appli-
(8) Distribution                 20,000,000         cable expen-
)ditures for
(9) Control and mis-              2,000,000        erection and
cellaneous items                              installation)
)or 100% of the
(10) Unallocated                  7,800,000      ) ex-factory cost
Sub-total    43,800,000


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Part C of the Project
(ESCELSA) Equipment
and materials for
(11) Subtransmission             4,000,000     ) 100% of foreign
) expenditures
(12) Substations                 5,000,000     ) (including
) where appli-
(13) Distribution               13,000,000     ) cable expen-
) ditures for
(14) Control and mis-            2,000,000     ) erection and
cellaneous items                          ) installation)
) or 100% of the
(15) Unallocated                 4,100,000     ) ex-factory cost
Sub-total    28,100,000
TOTAL       130,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof;
(c) expenditures by any of the Project Companies until it
has been certified to the satisfaction of the Bank by:
(i) such Project Company with respect to the Project
Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(ii) the State with respect to the Shareholder Agreement
concerning such Project Company; and
(iii) the Borrower with respect to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with such Project Company;
that such agreements, except those referred to in paragraph (b)
of Section 7.02 of this Agreement, have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf c , the respec-
tive parties thereto and are legally binding upon such respective
parties in accordance with their respective terms;
(d) expenditures made by CELESC unless:
(i) CELESC has employed the consultants referred to
in Section 2.09 of CELESC's Project Agreement;
and
(ii) on the date the first withdrawal application is
furnished by CELESC to the Bank the State of Santa
Catarina has paid to CELESC all such amounts as the
State of Santa Catarina has undertaken to pay by
such date under. Section 5 of the State of Santa
Catarina Shareholder Agreement;
(e) expenditures made by ESCELSA unless:
(i) ESCELSA has employed the consultants referred to in
Section 2.09 of ESCELSA's Project Agreement; and
(ii) the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a plan of
action satisfactory to the Bank to enable ESCELSA
to achieve for 1978 and thereafter until completion
of Part C of the Project, a current debt service
coverage ratio of not less than 1.5 to 1 as defined
in paragraph (b) (iii) of Section 4.05 of ESCELSA's
Project Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category for a specific Part of
the Project will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage
of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower reallocate to such Category, to the extent required


﻿- 14 -
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category for such Part of the Project
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Project Companies' program for the
expansion of their power subtransmission and distribution systems
during the years 1978 through 1981. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   CEMIG
1.   Subtransmission
Installation of about 14 circuit-kilometers of 230 kV
lines, about 780 circuit-kilometers of 138 kV lines, and
about 160 circuit-kilometers of 69 kV lines.
2.   Substations
Construction, expansion or improvement of about forty
138 kV substations providing an aggregate additional
capacity of about 670 MVA, about thirty-two 69 kV
substations providing an aggregate additional capacity
of about 230 MVA and two 34.5 kV substations providing
an aggregate additional capacity of five MVA.
Improvement of one 230 kV substation.
3.   Distribution
Installation of distribution transformers providing an
additional capacity of about 430 MVA, about 5,000
circuit-kilometers of distribution lines, and about
200,000 electricity meters.
4.   Acquisition and utilization of communications and control
equipment.
Part B:   CELESC
1.   Subtransmission
Installation of about 330 circuit-kilometers of 138 kV
lines and about 270 circuit-kilometers of 69 kV lines.
2.   Substations
Construction, expansion or improvement of about thirteen
138 kV substations providing an aggregate additional


﻿- 16 -
capacity of about 350 MVA and about forty 69 kV substa-
tions providing an aggregate additional capacity of
about 430 MVA.
3.   Distribution
Installation of distribution transformers providing an
additional capacity of about 140 MVA, about 6,400
circuit-kilometers of distribution lines, and about
226,000 electricity meters.
Part C:   ESCELSA
1.   Subtransmission
Installation of about 170 circuit-kilometers of 138 kV
lires, about 60 circuit-kilometers of 69 kV lines, and
about 6 circuit-kilometers of 34.5 kV lines.
2.   Substations
Construction, expansion or improvement of about one
hundred eighty 138 kV substations providing an aggregate
additional capacity of about 150 MVA and about forty
69 kV substations providing an aggregate additional
capacity of about 14 MVA.
Improvement of four 34.5 kV substations.
3.   Distribution
Installation of distribution transformers providing
an additional capacity of about 85 MVA, about 4,000
circuit-kilometers of distribution lines and about
85,000 electricity meters.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1982
through   January 1, 1993                   5,415,000
On July 1, 1993                                  5,455,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.50%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                       3.00%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                       5.45%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                       6.45%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.45%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.   Interest rate: 7.45% per annum.
2.   Commission and service fee:
(a) A one-time commission of one-half of one per cent (1/2%)
on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loans payable on the
date of signature of the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
and
(b) A service fee of one quarter of one per cent (1/4%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn of a Subsidiary Loan until all
proceeds of such Subsidiary Loan have been withdrawn and, there-
after, a service fee of one-eighth of one per cent (1/8%) per
annum on such proceeds outstanding.
3.   Repayment period:   fifteen (15) years including three (3)
years of grace.
4.   Foreign exchange risk:    borne by the Project Companies.


