CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
Project Agreement
(South-Southeast Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DE MINAS GERAIS S.A.
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DE MINAS GERAIS S.A. (hereinafter called
CEMIG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Centrais El6tricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred thirty million dollars ($130,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condi-
tion, inter alia, that CEMIG agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CEMIG, part of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to CEMIG
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CEMIG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of CEMIG.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. CEMIG shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for Part A of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CEMIG undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by CEMIG to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CEMIG shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part
A of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) CEMIG shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tracts documents and work and procurement schedules for Part A of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) CEMIG: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part A of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) CEMIG shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of CEMIG and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. CEMIG shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall


﻿-3-
otherwise agree, CEMIG shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) CEMIG shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) CEMIG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by CEMIG of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. CEMIG shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable measures to ensure that Part A of the Project is
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Section 2.08. CEMIG shall provide the Borrower such infor-
mation in respect of Part A of the Project as the Borrower shall
reasonably request for purposes of preparing the reports referred
to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. CEMIG shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
Part A of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, upon request,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Part A of
the Project.
Section 2.10. CEMIG shall offer low-income consumers living
within CEMIG's concession area and near existing low-tension
distribution lines who are not provided with electricity services
because of their inability to pay for connection charges and
minimum household wiring on cash terms, to finance such charges
and the cost of such wiring over a period of not less than
eighteen months, provided that, until completion of Part A of the
Project, the payment to be made in any given month by any house-
hold on account of such financing and of electricity used do not
exceed $5 equivalent.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CEMIG
Section 3.01. CEMIG shall at all times maintain its corporate
existence and right to carry on its operations, and shall take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. CEMIG shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. CEMIG shall at all times carry on its opera-
tions, manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, and
plan the future expansion of its electric power system, all in
accordance with appropriate business, financial and public utility
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by adequate competent staff.
Section 3.04. CEMIG shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. CEMIG shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. CEMIG shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 5 -
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of CEMIG and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CEMIG
shall: (a) obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower free and clear of all
encumbrances; and (b) not sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit
the sale or disposal of, any of the property or assets which shall
be required for the efficient carrying out of its business and
undertaking, including Part A of the Project, unless CEMIG shall
first pay, or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for
payment of, all of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower which are then outstanding and unpaid; provided, however,
that CEMIG may sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the sale or
disposal of, any property which shall have become obsolete, worn
out or unnecessary for use in its facilities.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) CEMIG shall take all such action (including, in such
cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted, action
with respect to the filing, within a period of not more than five
months after the end of every calendar year, of appropriate
applications in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or advis-
able to: (i) cause CEMIG's rates for the sale of electricity to be
set and maintained at such levels as will produce revenues, as
provided by the legislation of the Guarantor in effect on the date
of this Agreement, sufficient to ensure the continued operation of
CEMIG's business in accordance with appropriate financial and
public utility practices, using straight-line depreciation which
shall be not less than that based on the useful lives of deprecia-
ble assets in operation; and (ii) enable the agency or agencies of
the Guarantor responsible for the setting and adjustment of such
rates to act promptly in respect thereof;
(b) CEMIG shall, as provided by the legislation of the Guar-
antor, revalue its assets at least once every calendar year and
apply for the corresponding rate adjustments resulting therefrom;
and
(c) whenever it shall be necessary or advisable for CEMIG to
receive transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund to sup-
plement its revenues in order to achieve the objective set forth
in paragraph (a) of this Section, CEMIG shall take all necessary
steps to maintain its eligibility to such transfers of funds.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
CEMIG shall not incur any debt unless the net revenues of CEMIG
for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incur-
rence or for a later 12-month period ended prior to the date of
such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be more than 1.5
times the maximum debt service requirements on all CEMIG's debt
(including the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal year
(including the fiscal year in which such debt is to be incurred).
(b) CEMIG shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as available
but not later than six months after the beginning of each fiscal
year, a statement of:
(i) CEMIG's projected revenues for such fiscal year;
(ii) CEMIG's projected debt service requirements for
such fiscal year; and
(iii) the arithmetical ratio of such revenues to such
debt service requirements.
(c) CEMIG shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1979, review
with the State of Minas Gerais CEMIG's investment and financing
plans for the remainder of the execution period of Part A of the
Project, affording DNAEE and the Borrower a reasonable opportunity
to comment on such plans, and furnish to the Bank the results of
such review and a plan of action to be taken to generate each
fiscal year until Part A of the Project has been carried out, net
revenues which will be at least 1.5 times CEMIG's debt service
requirements for that fiscal year; (ii) afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to comment on such plan; and (iii) use its best
efforts to carry out such plan thereafter.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means all debt except debt maturing
by its terms on demand or less than one year after
it is incurred in the ordinary course of business.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract, loan agree-
ment or other instrument providing for such debt.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of the


﻿-7-
Borrower's rates in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month
period to which such revenues relate, less all
expenses of operation and maintenance in connection
with the generation, transmission and distribution
of electricity, administration, and taxes, if any,
but before deduction of provision for depreciation
and amortization of assets, interest and other
charges on debt.
(iv) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(v) Whenever for purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of currency of
the Guarantor debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
CEMIG shall not, until Part A of the Project shall have been
completed, undertake, or permit to be undertaken on its behalf,
any major investment other than Part A of the Project, unless
it has furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that: (a) such investment is technically and economically justi-
fied; (b) CEMIG has adequate financial resources for the carrying
out of such investment; and (c) such investment has been approved
by DNAEE and is in accordance with the power generation and
transmission plans for the South and Southeast regions of Brazil
approved by the Borrower.
For purposes of this Section, "major investment" means an
investment costing (a) more than two per cent (2%) of CEMIG's
gross revalued fixed assets plus works in progress, in case
such investment is for power generation or transmission, or
(b) more than one per cent (1%) of such assets plus works in
progress in case such investment is for power distribution.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective
or on a later date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower,
the State and CEMIG notice of its acceptance of the evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CEMIG thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For CEMIG:
Rua Tupis 149
30000 Belo Horizonte
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
CEMIG                              311-124
Belo Horizonte                     311-268
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CEMIG may be taken or executed by the
President and a Director of CEMIG or such other person or persons
as they shall designate in writing, and CEMIG shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DE MINAS GERAIS S.A.
By Is! Francisco Afonso Noronha
/s/ Paulo Mafra
Authorized Representatives


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under Part A of the Project, CEMIG shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. CEMIG shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to CEMIG of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 11 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of CEMIG and the Bank that such goods
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to
at least 50% of the value of the completed goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group B bid, an amount equal to the smaller
of (A) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods
supplied domestically offered in each group B bid, an amount equal
to the smaller of (A) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such
group B bid if they originated from the same foreign country as
the goods included in the group B bid which is subject to the
lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or (B) 15% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this com-
parison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the purposes of award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from
group B as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be selected
for purposes of award.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, CEMIG shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CEMIG
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the fur-
nishing to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
CEMIG shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the furnishing to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform CEMIG and state the reasons for such determination.


