CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
Shareholder Agreement
(South-Southeast Power Distribution Project)
between
STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1538 BR
SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978, between STATE OF ESPIRITO
SANTO (hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Lcan Agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and Centrais
El6tricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS (hereinafter called
the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty
million dollars ($130,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, in the Guarantee Agreement of
even date here 'Lth between the Federative Republic of Brazil
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the Bank, and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Espirito Santo Centrais E1etricas S.A. (hereinafter called
ESCELSA), but only on condition that the State agree to undertake
certain oblinations toward the Bank as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the State is the owner and holder of approximately
6% of the issued and outstanding voting shares of stock of
ESCELSA;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is autho-
rized under the Laws of the State to undertake the obligations
contained in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and into the Guarantee
Agreement with the Guarantor, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 2. The State shall not take or cause or permit any of
its agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance by ESCELSA of its covenants, agreements and
obligations contained in the Project Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 3. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
State shall, until the Closing DaLe: (a) reinvest in capital stock
of ESCELSA at least 90% of the cash dividends paid to the State by
ESCELSA, and (b) invest in capital stock of ESCELSA at least 90%
of the proceeds of the imposto unico allocated to the State.
For purposes of this Section, imposto unico means the
tax on electricity consumption established by Law 2308 of 1954
and Law 4676 of 1964, both of the Guarantor, as amended from
time to time.
Section 4. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the progress of Part C of the
Project and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the prog-
ress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by the State of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 5. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon wh 4ch the Loan Agreement becomes effective or
on a later date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower,
the State and ESCELSA notice of its acceptance of the evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 6. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the State thereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 7. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-3-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Governo do Estado do Espirito Santo
Secretaria de Estado do Interior e dos Transportes
Vit6ria, Espirito Santo
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
GOESBR                             272189
VITORIA
Section 8. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Secretary of the Interior and Transport of the State or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 9. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the State, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 10. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO
By /s/ Kerman Jose Machado
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPtENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


