Report No. 23830
Report No: I070547 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/12/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AFRICA Project ID: P070547
Project: Groundwater & Drought Management in SADC         Task Team Leader: Jakob
Granit
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 30, 2003       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 30, 2003     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFTUl     Sector: VI - Environmental Institutions; VM - Natural
Resources Management; VV - Environment Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the project is "to develop a regional strategic approach
for the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) to support and
enhance the capacity of   its member States in the definition of drought
management policies, specifically in relation to the role, availability
(magnitude and recharge) and supply potential of groundwater resources."
I.A.3. Project Description:
Groundwater is a key element for the alleviation of drought in the SADC
region. Much of the region is one of rapid population growth, extended
drought periods followed by occasional extreme flood-events and already
highly-dependent on groundwater for rural water-supply. However, policy
responses to drought have in the past been based on short-term crisis
actions which have generally proved to be inefficient or ineffective. To
address this undesirable situation proactive sustainable and integrated
management of groundwater resources needs to be instituted including
careful consideration of ecosystem needs.    The outputs from the project
will assist in reconciling the demands for socio-economic development and
those of the principal groundwater-dependent ecosystems. Tools will be
elaborated for regional cooperative management of transboundary aquifers
and to guide sustainable downstream investments in proactive drought
mitigation.
The project will be developed at two scales: the regional and the
river-basin scale. At the regional scale, the project will identify
transboundary impacts of groundwater development in the various river
basins of the region, identify priority groundwater drought prone areas
and provide regional management tools such as basic harmonised
hydrogeological maps groundwater drought vulnerability and water scarcity
maps, a minimum regional groundwater monitoring network and a regional
groundwater information system. The tools developed will be applied
through the SADC institutional network, which is financed by the Member
Countries and through the development of a Regional Groundwater Research
Institution / Commission which would be established to promote groundwater
resources awareness and management training. At the river-basin scale, the



role of groundwater in proactive drought mitigation will be demonstrated
in the semi-arid Limpopo river basin on a conceptual scale and at the
field-scale in a pilot subcatchment simultaneously taking into account
applicability and replicability for the region as a whole. The location of
the pilot project will be determined by the riparian countries during the
project preparation phase which is financed by a GEF grant (PDF B).
Components at the regional level
(All costs will be determined during preparation phase.)
a) Decision support tools
The development of regional information and decision support tools for
integrated groundwater management in drought prone areas,
b) Capacity building
Capacity building, institutional strengthening, including the formation of
a regional groundwater research institute / commission
Components at the river basin level
c) Groundwater and surface water resources assessment of the Limpopo River
Basin
Assessment carried out at the Limpopo river basin scale with particular
attention to the interaction between groundwater, surface water and
ecosystem dependencies.
d) Subcatchment pilot project
Investigation, demonstration and promotion on the ground for the optimal
uses of groundwater resources, engaging key stakeholders in a drought
prone pilot area.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Regional level
The Southern African Development Community (SADC) is a regional grouping
of 14 sovereign states with the main purpose of fostering co-operation and
mutual benefit from the resources of this region. With the establishment
of the SADC Water Sector in August 1996 the critical importance of water
to regional integration and economic development was recognised by the
Member States. Water was upgraded to a distinct sector. In majority of the
Member States, groundwater occurrence is complex and sustainable
development of resources is challenging. The status of groundwater
development in each individual country largely reflects the importance of
the resource in that country. Member States that are largely dependant on
groundwater, are initiating the sustainable development concepts, for
instance in Namibia, Botswana, South Africa. In some other SADC Member
States, there have been very limited efforts and funding for management of
the resource to parallel development. In the SADC region, 37T of the
population rely upon formal or improved groundwater supplies and 23t on
reticulated supplies from surface water sources. The remaining 40- rely
upon unimproved sources, which may be either groundwater or surface water,
and which are generally unsafe and more often prone to drought.
- 2-



Groundwater has a potential role to play in the future development of
secured water supply facilities and drought management issues. Presently,
about one third of the people in the region live in drought prone areas.
In the driest part of the region, groundwater is the primary source of
drinking water for the human population and livestock. Groundwater is the
main or a complementary source of intensive irrigation in some parts of
SADC and has a significant role to play in the food security through
small-scale irrigation.
River basin level
The Limpopo River Basin forms the border between Botswana and South
Africa, then between Zimbabwe and South Africa, before crossing the
Southern part of Mozambique to reach the Indian Ocean in Xai Xai, to the
North of Maputo. The average rainfall along most of the Limpopo River is
less than 400mm, including the "Alto Limpopo" (upper part of the river
across Mozambique), which is the driest area of Mozambique. The annual
runoff of the Limpopo river is 5.500 Mm3.The severe droughts observed
during the early 90s and the recent exceptional floods in the Limpopo
valley illustrate the extreme variability of rainfall and runoff in the
basin. How aquifer recharge is affected by such variability has to be
investigated in detail, so that optimal abstraction value during dry
periods is determined. In Botswana, 80t of the country population,
including Gaborone, Francistown and Selebi Pikwe lives in the Limpopo
Basin. The relatively high density of population, the existence of major
towns such as Gaborone, Pretoria, Pietersburg in the basin, and the large
number of dams, industries and mines, exert a considerable pressure on the
water resources, particularly during dry periods, while large sectors of
the rural population are not adequately supplied. The basin offers a wide
spectrum of Southern African shared aquifers. The alluvial aquifers
associated with the Limpopo River and its tributaries, are of particular
importance in areas where river flow is not permanent and needs to be
adequately protected against over exploitation, pollution and destruction
from abstraction of sand.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project team will closely follow up on the preparation of
the subcatchment pilot component to make sure that OP 4.01 is not triggered
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
-3 -



necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Unless proven during the preparation phase there are no safeguard issues
triggered by this project.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
The objective of the project is to improve the ability of communities to
manage drought and floods to be able to sustain life supporting ecosystems
and to provide water supply for different uses. Mapping, planning and
development of water resources on a country by country basis would be
sub-optimal and would give rise to inequitable adverse effects on water
resources in neighbouring countries. Evidence suggests that optimal
win-win solution are available, but only if planning and management
activities are undertaken jointly and co-operatively by the countries
concerned. Long-term impacts of well planned conjunctive use of ground a
surface water, promoted by the project, are therefore expected to be
positive.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The project concept does not entail any significant physical interventions
and is not expected to trigger any safeguard policies. Two situation
analyses will be carried out during the preparation phase at the regional
scale and on the Limpopo River Basin scale. These analyses will define in
detail the scope of the different sub-components of the project and any
possible safeguard factors that may be triggered.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
At the regional level there is an established mechanism for stakeholder
consultations established consisting of several different groups: a
multi-stakeholder project steering committee, the SADC sub-committee on
hydrogeology, the SADC-Water Sector Coordination Unit, the SADC Water
Resources Technical Committee, the Sectoral Committees of Senior Officials
and the Council of Ministers. The situation analysis for the Limpopo River
Basin during the preparation phase will identify potential relevant
participants to a planned Limpopo Stakeholders Workshop in the pilot
subcatchment area. The stakeholders will submit key issues to be addressed
during the workshop. Various forms of consultations, including separate
- 4 -



groups meetings will take place during the situation analysis, so that
specific needs and concerns of various water user groups can be addressed
in the most equitable and efficient way.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Jakob Granit    3/5/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         3/7/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Jeffrey S. Racki         3/5/02
- 5 -



For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



