Report No. PID11137
Project Name             Africa Region-Groundwater & Drought Management...
in SADC
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Environmental Institutions; Natural
Resources Management; Environment Adjustment
Project ID               3AGE70547
Borrower(s)              RELEVANT SADC MEMBER STATES
Implementing Agency
Address SADC WATER SECTOR COORDINATION
UNIT
SADC Water Sector Coordination Unit
Address: Private Bag A440, Maseru 100,
Lesotho
Contact Person: Mr. Phera Ramoeli
Tel: +266-310022
Fax: +266-310465/310437
Email: sadcwscu@lesoff.co.za
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        April 16, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 30, 2003
Bank Approval Date       June 30, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Issues
The Southern African Development Community (SADC) is a regional grouping
of 14 sovereign states with the main purpose of fostering co-operation and
mutual benefit from the resources in the region. With the establishment of
the SADC Water Sector in August 1996 the critical importance of water to
regional integration and economic development was recognized by the member
states. The project concept has been developed in a highly consultative
manner by the member states with support by the SADC Water Sector
Coordination Unit (SADC-WSCU).    Rainfall variabilityThe high degree of
variability in rainfall and the associated water shocks resulting from
severe droughts and floods is a factor of constant and unpredictable risk
is Southern Africa. Improved management of water resources is at the core
of addressing these water shocks that have a severe impact on the
economies and the life supporting ecosystems already under stress. The
population of the SADC region is expected to double in 25 years and major
water and environment crises will occur if decisive and concrete actions
are not taken towards sustainable and integrated water resources
management to mitigate the effects of droughts and floods. Water scarcity
in particular is creating competition and tensions amongst user groups and
sectors on local, national and sub-regional levels. The recurring droughts
in the region have demonstrated the potential value of groundwater as a
more reliable and dependable source of water than surface water. The
importance of groundwater in drought management emanates, among others,
from its availability in population centers, providing renewable
quantities of fresh water. Secondly, most aquifers have enough storage



capacity that can be used, if properly managed, to reduce the stress on
surface water resources during the dry periods. Using the aquifer's
static reserve as a temporary alternative to surface water can therefore
be envisaged, provided that a sufficient recovery/replenishment period is
allowed for the aquifer. The potential for future exploitation of static
reserves in Southern Africa may involve its conjunctive utilization with
surface water resources, i.e., artificial recharge in wet periods.
Groundwater managementIn the SADC region, 379 of the population rely upon
formal or improved groundwater supplies and 23% on reticulated supplies
from surface water sources. The remaining 409 rely upon unimproved
sources, which may be either groundwater or surface water, and which are
generally unsafe and more often prone to drought. Groundwater has a
potential role to play in the future development of secured water supply
facilities and drought management issues. Presently, about one third of
the people in the region live in drought prone areas. In the driest part
of the region, groundwater is the primary source of drinking water for the
human population and livestock. Groundwater is the main or a complementary
source of intensive irrigation in some parts of the SADC region and has a
significant role to play in achieving food security through small-scale
irrigation. In the majority of the member states, groundwater occurrence
is, however, complex and sustainable development of the resource is
challenging. As in the case of shared surface water resources in the SADC
region (15 major river basins are shared) several countries also share
major groundwater resources aquifers. Currently there are no joint
monitoring networks or management plans in place for those shared
aquifers. In addition, local aquifers may also have a regional impact, as
groundwater abstraction may reduce the base flow of international river
systems shared by several countries which potentially threaten ecosystems
and downstream usage requiring a minimum stream flow. Some major aquifers,
all with their distinct management challenges, found in the region
include: dambo systems supporting year round vegetable production,
low-yielding aquifers consisting of deeply weathered basement rock
supplying drinking water, and aquifers in alluvial sediments associated
with rivers and streams.The status of groundwater development in each
individual country largely reflects the importance of the resource in that
country. Member states such as Namibia, Botswana and South Africa,
largely dependent on groundwater, are actively integrating the use of
groundwater in their water resources management policies. In some other
SADC member states, there have been very limited efforts and they rely
mostly on the use of surface water. The vulnerability of groundwater
supply systems to drought often results from the poor design and
insufficient depth of wells, along with inappropriate pumping devices. The
lack of water level monitoring and prediction is an aggravating factor.
Proper prediction, development and management of groundwater could
alleviate the water crisis situation during dry periods. Government
Strategy
Development of a SADC regional groundwater management program Despite the
present and future eminent socio-economic role of groundwater in the
region, surface water issues have so far dominated regional water
resources programs in SADC. Policy responses to drought have in the past
commonly been based on short-term crisis management, and insufficient
attention have been paid to the value of groundwater resources. The SADC
Water Resources Technical Committee (WRTC), the Sectoral Committees of
Senior Officials and Ministers of Water have acknowledged that more
attention should be given to groundwater development and protection. To
-2 -



address these issues a SADC Sub-committee for Hydrogeology, in which each
Member State is represented, has been established. In a highly
consultative manner SADC developed in 1998 a Regional Strategic Action
Plan for Integrated Water Resource Development and Management (RSAP). One
component of the RSAP is a groundwater management program that includes
ten sub-projects. The program was subsequently approved by the SADC Water
Resources Technical Committee, the SADC Sectoral Committee of Ministers of
Water (June 1999, Zanzibar), and the SADC Council of Ministers (August
1999, Maputo). The overall objectives of the groundwater management
program are to promote the sustainable development of groundwater
resources, capacity building and to support the development and
implementation of management frameworks at different scales.Subsequently,
recommendations were given by both the SADC Regional Drought Task Force
(made up of Ministers of Agriculture, Ministers of Transport,
Communications and Meteorology) and the SADC Water Strategy Reference
Group (composed of the WSCU, SADC secretariat and donors) to focus part of
the groundwater management program on drought management issues. The
project concept reflects those recommendations and thus includes and
addresses regional aspects related to six of the ten components: (i)
capacity building, (ii) the development of a regional groundwater
information system, (iii) the development of a regional groundwater
monitoring network, (iv) compilation of hydrogeological map, (v) the
establishment of a regional groundwater research institute / commission,
and (vi) a groundwater resource assessment of the Limpopo River Basin.
Considering the focus on the Limpopo river basin and according to GEF
policy guidelines the basic project concept was endorsed and recommended
by the GEF operational focal points in Botswana (National Conservation
Strategy Coordinating Agency), Mozambique (Ministerio para a coordena6Ao
da AOOao Ambiental), South Africa (Department of Environmental Affairs and
Tourism), and Zimbabwe (Ministry of Environment and Tourism). Lesotho, on
behalf of the SADC Sectoral Committee of Ministers (Mininstry of Natural
Resources), also formally recommended the project for funding to the GEF.
2. Objectives
The project objective is defined as:"The development of a SADC regional
strategic approach to support and enhance the capacity of its member
States in the definition of drought management policies, specifically in
relation to the role, availability (magnitude and recharge) and supply
potential of groundwater resources."
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The project will benefit from being a part of the World Bank's Africa
Water Resources Management Initiative (AWRMI). This initiative was
launched in 1996 and seeks to support water resources analysis and policy
reform at the national level and assists riparian countries in the
development of cooperative frameworks and programs in relation to shared
water resources. The initiative was developed as a direct response to the
regional strategy for Sub-Saharan Africa, that was developed through
intensive stakeholder consultations between 1994 and 1996. The strategy
builds, in turn, upon the World Bank's long term vision of supporting
integrated water resources management programs and projects as stated in
the Water Resources Management Policy Paper (1993). The AWRMI is an
expanding cross-regional partnership with a multi-disciplinary and
multi-sectoral team of staff working currently on water resources
management and development programs in about 20 countries and 5
-3 -



international river basins. The AWRMI seeks to establish partnerships
with other multi- and bilateral donor agencies and members of the civil
society in order to strengthen ongoing and planned initiatives. The GEF's
integrated land and water management program (OP#9) acts as a catalyst to
bring about action on the ground and promotes the integration of land and
water resource management practices on a regional and basin-wide scale.
Mechanisms to share lessons learned from different components of OP#9 will
be explored during the preparation phase.
4. Description
The project will be developed at two scales: the regional and the
river-basin scale.At the regional scale, the project will identify
transboundary impacts of groundwater development in the various river
basins of the region, identify priority groundwater drought prone areas
and provide regional management tools, such as basic harmonised
hydrogeological maps. groundwater drought vulnerability and water scarcity
maps, a minimum regional groundwater monitoring network, and a regional
groundwater information system. The tools developed will be applied
through the SADC institutional network, which is financed by the Member
Countries and through the development of a Regional Groundwater Research
Institution / Commission which would be established to promote groundwater
resources awareness and management training.At the river-basin scale, the
role of groundwater in proactive drought mitigation will be demonstrated
in the semi-arid Limpopo river basin on a conceptual scale and at the
field-scale in a pilot subcatchment simultaneously taking into account
applicability and replicability for the region as a whole. The location of
the pilot project will be determined during the project preparation phase
which is financed by a GEF grant (PDF B).
Components at the regional level
a) Decision support tools:
The development of regional information and decision support tools for
integrated groundwater management in drought prone areas,
b) Capacity building:
Capacity building, institutional strengthening, including the formation of
a regional groundwater research institute / commission
Components at the river basin level:
c) Groundwater and surface water resources assessment of the Limpopo River
Basin
Assessment carried out at the Limpopo river basin scale with particular
attention to the interaction between groundwater, surface water and
ecosystem dependencies.
d) Subcatchment pilot project:
Investigation, demonstration and promotion on the ground for the optimal
uses of groundwater resources, engaging key stakeholders in a drought
prone pilot area.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT       $0.00
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY                 $7.00
FRANCE, GOV. OF (EXCEPT
FOR MIN. OF FOREIGN
-4-



AFFAIRS-MOFA)            $1.90
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV.,
DISTRICT, CITY) OF
BORROWING COUNTRY        $1.20
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL.
DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY
(SIDA)                  $1.90
Total Project Cost       $12.00
6. Implementation
The period of implementation is estimated to be four years. During the
ongoing preparation phase the SADC-WSCU is the Executing Agency. During
project implementation different agencies will most likely implement the
project because of the work at different scales. An assessment of possible
implementing agencies will be performed during the preparation phase. At
the regional level, including the conceptual assessment of the Limpopo
River Basin, project implementation will most likely be carried out by a
suitable SADC institution, government agency or research institution with
a regional outreach. At the pilot subcatchment level implementation could
be carried out by a NGO or a community group in association with a private
consultancy firm. The project will guided by a multi-stakeholder steering
committee set up also to guide the preparation phase. The established SADC
structure with the SADC Water Resources Technical Committee (WRTC),
Sub-committee for Hydrogeology, the Sectoral Committees of Senior
Officials and Ministers of Water will be responsible for oversight of the
whole project. The exact flow of decision making will be addressed during
the preparation phase considering the ongoing restructuring of SADC and
its institutions. Most likely a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be
established at the new SADC directorate for Infrastructure & Services
which will be based at the SADC Secretariat in Gaborone, Botswana. The
role of the PIU will be to coordinate project implementation with the
different project execution agencies. Project disbursement would most
likely be through the SADC Secretariat and the established PIU. The PIU
would manage all sub-contracts. The financial management capacity and
audit arrangements of the SADC Secretariat would be assessed to make sure
they meet acceptable standards. Grant funding for the project is envisaged
from the GEF and various bilateral donors that already have indicated
interest to support the project.
7. Sustainability
The tools developed during the project for managing groundwater on a
regional level will be sustained through the SADC system and the Regional
Groundwater Research Institution / Commission. The SADC-Water Sector
Coordination Unit (SADC-WSCU) mandate is to facilitate and coordinate the
sustainable development and management of shared water resources in the
SADC region. Its role is furthermore to transfer the day to day operations
of the project during its implementation to appropriate institutions in
the region. Crucial for the success of the project is the support by the
member states to a Regional Groundwater Research Institution / Commission
to sustain and maintain the regional tools as well as continue training
and education in groundwater resources management. The running costs of
the SADC WSCU are today financed by the Kingdom of Lesotho and SADC member
states contribute to relevant expenses such as regional meetings,
workshops and training. The purpose of the pilot component at the basin
level is to test various management options at the local scale, learn from
- 5 -



them and replicate the lessons learned within the regional framework.
Sustainable downstream country based investments will be promoted in the
SADC region based on the raised awareness of the role groundwater can play
in drought management for enhancing socio-economic development and the
protection of ecosystems. Additional options for sustainability will be
explored during the preparation phase and during actual project
implementation.The project as such will also in itself be a pilot project
for how to manage regional groundwater resources shared between several
countries in drought prone regions. Lessons learned can be replicated in
other parts of the world through the GEF framework such as the GEF's
outreach and publication program, GEF Lessons notes, and country dialogue
workshops. These avenues provide excellent opportunities for wider
dissemination of results at the regional and global level.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from the Bank's Africa Water Resources Management
Initiative (AWRMI) suggest that for projects to be successful on shared
water courses there is a need for the riparian countries to establish a
common vision for action and to have political commitment at the highest
possible level. Equally important is to promote full stakeholder
involvement in project preparation and implementation. These key lessons
learned are also confirmed by the GEF from their multi-country operations
(GEF Lessons Notes 11) which also stress the need for implementing agency
collaboration and donor coordination. The project concept presented in
this PCD is a direct outcome of the significant consultative process that
the SADC member states embarked upon within the framework of the Regional
Strategic Action Program (RSAP) for sustainable development and management
of water resources and which is reflected in the groundwater management
program. The SADC Protocol on Shared Water Courses is the common framework
agreed to by all the member states. A vision of cooperation and equitable
development of shared water resources is in place in SADC. In addition,
SADC has established a strategic reference group consisting of different
donors to provide advice to the implementation of RSAP. The next critical
step for SADC is to translate the vision and the framework to joint action
on the ground for the benefit of all. The project is therefore designed to
function on multiple levels and scales involving stakeholders at the
local, regional and global level. This is a robust project design where
project activities at different levels reinforce each other. The sharing
of knowledge and lessons learned can, however, best be achieved through a
common mechanism which is provided by SADC. The SADC-HYCOS project is
e.g. implemented through SADC with the Department of Water Affairs in
South Africa as a hub that serves the other participating members
government agencies responsible for water resources. The hub collects,
analyzes and disseminates data on behalf of the member states. WaterNet
and the Global Water Partnership are other examples of loose networks with
a multitude of nodes for stakeholders at different levels to participate.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Environmental issues will be defined during the
preparation phase. Environmental issues and the crucial aspect of
stakeholder participation will be covered by two situation analyses
carried out during the PDF B phase. The first analysis address
environmental issues related to the abstraction and use of groundwater and
- 6 -



the regional SADC level. The second analysis address environmental issues
at the pilot Limpopo River Basin scale and at the selected pilot
subcatchment area. A Regional Steering Committee consisting of key
stakeholders in the SADC region will guide the project preparation process
and guarantee stakeholder engagement during the preparation phase.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jakob Granit
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3658
Fax: 202-473-8301
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 26, 2002.
-7-



