                                               Document of
                                             The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                ReportNo: 32076-AFR




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                   PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE
                       GLOBALENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$7.0MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (SADC)

                                                 FOR A

                   GROUNDWATER & DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                              May 17,2005




Water and Urban Unit 1 (AFTU1)
Afi-ica Region


This document has a restricted distribution and maybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective {Date})


                            Currency Unit = USDollar



                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   - December31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

GDE          Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems
GMISA        Groundwater Management Institute o f Southem Africa
GW-MATE      Groundwater Management Advisory Team, formed with the support o fthe
             Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program
I C A        Incremental Cost Analysis
L I M C O M  Limpopo River Basin Commission
MDG          MillenniumDevelopment Goals
NCSA         National Capacity Self-Assessment
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PIM          Project Implementation Manual
P M U        Project management Unit
PSA          Project Services Agency
RISDP        SADC Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan
RSAP         Regional Strategic Action Plan, for water, developed by SADC
SADC         Southem African Development Community
SADC WD      SADC Water Division
SADC WRTC    SADC Water Resources Technical Committee
Sida         SwedishInternational Development Cooperation Agency
STAP         Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel o f GEF
TDA          Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
WB           World Bank
WSSD         World Symposium on Sustainable Development
ZAMCOM       Zambezi Watercourse Commission




                          Vice President:       GobindNankani
              Country ManagerDirector:         Mark Tomlinson
                         Sector Manager:       Jaime Biderman
                       Task Team Leader:       Leonard John Abrams

                                                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                 SADC
                              Groundwater& DroughtManagement Project

                                                           CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                     Page

   A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           .................................................................     1
     1.  Country and sector issues            .................................................................................................... 1
     2. Rationale for Bank andGEF involvement..........................................................................                                3
     3.  Higher level objectives to which theproject contributes....................................................                                   5

   B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................     6
     1.  Lending instrument.............................................................................................................               6
     2.  Program objective andPhases ............................................................................................                       6
     3.  Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                  6
     4.  Project components.............................................................................................................                7
     5. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design..........................................................                                    10
     6. Altematives consideredandreasons for rejection............................................................                                     12

   C.  IMPLEMENTATION                   ........................................................................................................       12
     1.  Partnership arrangements ..................................................................................................                   12
     2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements................................................................                                 13
     3.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomedresults................................................................                                  14
     4.  Sustainability andReplicability........................................................................................                       15
     5.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                               17
     6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                            18

   D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
     .                                         .................................................................................................       19
     1. Economic and financial analyses                   ......................................................................................       19
     2.  Technical  ...........................................................................................................................        19
     3.  Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 20
     4.  Social.................................................................................................................................       20
     5.  Environment......................................................................................................................             21
     6.  Safeguard policies..................................................................................              ;.......................... 22
     7.  PolicyExceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                          23

    Annex 1:Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................     24

/Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
/theperformance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
(withoutWorld Bank authorization                         .       .

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                  .................30
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................       32

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description           ......................................................................................        36

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        41

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................       42

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                            .....................................  47

Annex 8: Procurement ................................................................................................................        53

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  .............................................................................       57

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................        58

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................      60

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File               .................................................................................       61

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................       62

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................        63

Annex 15: Incremental Cost Analysis            .......................................................................................       64

Annex 16: STAP Roster Review         ................................................................................................        81

Annex 17: Determination of Pilot Areas             ...................................................................................       90

                                       AFRICA

                    3A-GEFGRNDWTR & DRGHT MGMT TAL (FY05)

                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                       AFRICA

                                       AFTU1

Date: May 17,2005                          TeamLeader: LeonardJohnAbrams
Country Director: Mark D. Tomlinson        Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and forestry
Sector Manager/Director: Jaime M.Bidennan  sector (SO%);General water, sanitation and flood
Project ID: PO70547                        protection sector (50%)
Focal Area: Internationalwaters            Themes: Water resourcemanagement
Lending Instrument: TechnicalAssistance    (P);Environmental policies and institutions (S)
Loan                                       Environmentalscreeningcategory: Not Required
                                           Safeguardscreeningcategory: No impact




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00




FRANCE, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR                   0.00              0.08                0.08
MIN.OFFOREIGNAFFAIRS-MOFA)
GERMANY, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR                  0.00              1.22                 1.22
BMZ)
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT,                3.52              0.00                3.52
CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV.                    0.00              0.50                 0.50
COOPERATIONAGENCY (SIDA)
Total:                                        3.52              9.80                13.32

Borrower:
SADC Secretariat
Gaborone
Botswana

ResponsibleAgency:
SADC :Water Division
Gaborone
Botswana



FY            2006       2007     2008     2009       0          0         0         0          0
Annual          1.17      1.43     1.88     2.52      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00
Cumulative      1.17      2.60     4.48     7.00      7.00      7.00       7.00     7.00      7.00




Global Environment objective Re$ PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3
To better understand and protect groundwater dependent ecosystems indrought-prone areas of
Southern Africa.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical Annex
4
1. Development andtesting o f a groundwater drought management plan for the Limpopo River
Basinpilot areas: to test the application andreplicability o f methods o f decreasing the vulnerability
o f local communities and GDEs to the effects o f groundwater droughts, and to ensure that practical
on-the-ground benefits accrue to local people from the project.

 2. Regional groundwater drought management support: to provide tools for transboundary
groundwater management, including hydrogeological maps and maps o f groundwater vulnerability
and water scarcity.

 3. Establishment o fthe Groundwater Management Institute o f Southern Africa (GMISA): to
create an institutionto increase knowledge o f and capacity for groundwater management inSADC,
inorder to sustainthe work o fthe project andmaintain readiness to address future drought events.

  4. Project Management andAdministration: to provide maximum extemal support to the SADC
Water Division.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
Policy OP7.50, although formally triggered, i s already satisfied because o fthe involvement o f all
SADC countries inthe project preparationandpilot area selection. Policies OP4.01 and OP4.04
are only likely to be triggeredby the pilot area activities, the details o fwhich can only be
deterimind once the management plans have beenprepared.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
N/A

Loadcredit effectiveness:
(a)      The Recipient has entered into a Management Services Agreement with the Project Ser-
vices Agency under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and inaccordance with the
provisions o f SectionI11o f Schedule 3 o f the Grant Agreement, and has established an adequate
financial management system satisfactory to the Bank;
  (b)    The Recipient has furnishedthe Bank the Project ImplementationPlan, inform and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank;
  (c)    The Recipient has established the Project Steering Committee inaccordance with the pro-
visions o fparagraph 1o f Schedule 4 o f the Grant Agreement;
  (d)    The Recipient has commenced the process of appointing to the Project ManagementUnit
key staff, including a Project Manager and a technical executive officer, with adequate qualifica-
tions and experience; and
  (e)    The Recipient has appointed the independent auditors referred to inSection 4.01(b) o fthe
Grant Agreement, inaccordance with the provisions of Section I11o f Schedule 3 o fthe Grant
Agreement.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
N/A


A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country andsector issues

Regional issues

The Southem African Development Community (SADC) has the goal o f fostering cooperation
and mutual benefit from the resources o f the region amongst it member countries -Angola, Bot-
swana, DRC, Lesotho, Mauritius, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland,
Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Whilst there i s no formal poverty reduction strategy for the region, the 1996 SADC Policy and
Strategy for Environment and Sustainable Development states that the organization aims to:

    0  protect and improve the health, environment and livelihoods o f the people in Southem
        Africa, particularly the poor;
    0  preserve the natural heritage, biodiversity and life-supporting ecosystems inSouthem Af-
       rica; and
    0   support regional economic development on an equitable and sustainable basis for the
        benefit o f present and future generations.

Thus, poverty reduction is closely linked with protection of the environment and preservation o f
life supporting ecosystems.

Countries in the region face naturalconstraints such as a high degree o f spatial and temporal
variability inthe rainfall, and imposedconstraintsincluding a lack o fbasic data and knowledge,
fragmented responsibility for management o fwater resources, lack o f community involvement in
management, outdated policies, laws and regulations, and inadequate enforcement o f existing
regulations. These constraints are particularly apparent in the case o f groundwater resources.
Overarching these national issues is the regional issue o f a lack o f an effective mechanism to
manage the numerous transboundary watersheds, both surface and groundwater, inthe region.

Member states signed the SADC Protocol on Shared Watercourse Systems in 1995. In 1996,
SADC established a Water Sector to further the protection and development of this vital regional
resource. The Protocol was revised in 2000 and came into force in 2003. A Regional Strategic
Action Plan (RSAP) for Integrated Water Resources Development and Management was devel-
oped in 1998 which includes 31 priority projects. The present proposal i s designed to help im-
plement one of those priority projects - Project 6, entitled Regional Groundwater Management
Program inthe SADC Region. This Program i s overseen by a sub-committee o f the SADC Wa-
ter Resources Technical Committee. This sub-committee has subsequently been incorporated
into the Project Steering Committee to provide technical oversight and representation of Member
States inthe project govemance.

Underthe umbrella o f the RevisedProtocol for Shared Watercourses, riparian states have signed
an agreement for the joint management o f surface and groundwaters inthe Limpopo river basin.
This agreement includes the establishment o f a River Basin Commission and forms the basis for




                                                   1

the development o f common objectives, and harmonized laws and regulations for the manage-
ment o fthe surface and groundwater resources.

All countries inthe SouthernAfrica regionare eligible for WorldBank andGEF funding.

Sector issues andProject rationale

The development o f countries inthe region is highly dependent on adequate and reliable water
resources. Thus, the RSAP states that the region's water resources influence all aspects of the
region's social and economic development. Apart from domestic water supply and sanitation, it
i s essential for agriculture, pastoralism, hydro-power generation, mining, tourism and industry.
About one third o f the people inthe region live in drought prone areas, where groundwater i s the
primary source o f drinking water for the humanpopulation and livestock, and most other activi-
ties. Groundwater i s also the prime source o f water for many ecosystems and their wildlife in
these dryland areas.

Groundwater resources in arid areas are under threat from over-exploitation, pollution, sedimen-
tation and introduction o f exotic species. These threats arise primarilybecause o f poverty linked
to an increase inpopulation pressure, as well as from irrigated agriculture, tourism, mining and
pollution from humanwaste and agricultural chemicals. The threat to the groundwater resources
o f these vulnerable areas also constitutes a major threat to the related groundwater dependant
eco-systems (GDEs) in drought prone areas o f the region.          Currently there is very limited
groundwater management in the countries o f the region with inadequate resources dedicated to
the task and a general lack o f effective institutions andtechnical capacity. The impacts o f exploi-
tation o f groundwater on GDEs are largely unknown, as i s the resulting social and economic im-
pact o fthe degrading o f GDEs on the communities inthe affected areas, especially the very poor.
These problems are compounded by the cycli-
cal nature and variability o f climatic condi-
tions inthe southem African region. The im-
plementation period o f the project may or may
not coincide with a drought event which re-
quires that the outlook o f the project must be
one o f assisting the region and SADC Mem-
ber States to develop and maintain a long term
perspective o f groundwater drought manage-
ment andthe protectiono fGDEs (Box 1).


Itis these questions which this project aims to address through four inter-related components:


     0  Testing o fpractical local groundwater drought management strategies at pilot level;
     0  Research into GDEs, their occurrence, vulnerability, value andprotection;
     0  The development o f groundwater drought management tools and guidelines;
     0  The establishment o f a regional Groundwater Management Institute o f SouthernAfrica to
        continue long term monitoring and the promotion o fbetter management and awareness in
        the SADC region and at national level.



                                                    2

2. Rationale for Bank and GEF involvement

Rationale for GEF involvement

The GEF i s currently involved in several programs (in addition to this project) which address
specifically the utilization and protection o f transboundary and intemational groundwater. This
indicates a growing concem for groundwater and for groundwater dependent ecosystems. These
projects include:

  Country             Project Name           Re-      Focal Area   IAgency     Project
                                            gion                                 Type
 Egypt       Developing Renewable           AFR     International  IUNDP   IIIMedium     CEO Ap-

             Arid Lands: a Pilot Case - the
             Ground Water Resources in              Waters                    Size Pro-  proved
                                                                              ject
             Eastern Desert o f Egypt
 Regional    Protection of the North West   AFR     International   UNEP      Medium     CEO Ap-
             Sahara Aquifer System                  Waters                     Size Pro- proved
             (NWSAS) and related humid
             zones and ecosystems
 Regional    EnvironmentalProtectionand     L A C    International  IBRD      FullSize
             Sustainable Integrated Man-            Waters                     Project   proved
             agement of the Guarani Aqui-
             fer
 Regional    Managing Hydrogeological       AFR      International  UNEP       Medium
             Riskinthe IullemedenAqui-               Waters                    Size Pro- proved
                                                                              ject                I
 Global                                              Biodiversity   UNEP       FullSize
             Managementof Below                                                Project   dorsed


Inaddition there are a number of GEF projects covering related issues which are beingunder-
taken by the World Bank's cooperating partnersinSouthem Africa. These include:

1. UNEP - Desert Margins Program (DMP) Phase1 (CEO Endorsed 2001 - under implementa-
    tion)

    The overall objective o f the DMP i s to arrest land degradation in Africa's desert margins
    through demonstration and capacity building activities. In the Southem Africa region, this
    project is working in Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe to develop an inte-
    grated national, sub-regional, and intemational action programme for developing sustainable
    natural-resource management options to combat land degradation and loss of biodiversity,
    The SADC Groundwater project will collaborate with this initiative to assist in the develop-
    ment o fthe regional groundwater management plans.




                                                   3

2. UNEP - Integrated Management o f Dryland biodiversity through Land Rehabilitation in the
   arid and semi-aridregions o f Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbabwe (Council Approved - Oc-
   tober 2002)

   This project works in two transboundary areas (one between Mozambique and Zambia adja-
   cent to one o f the pilot areas o f the current project). The objective i s to improve community-
   based resource management, in order to address losses in soil productivity, reduced food se-
   curity and increased vulnerability o f local communities to stresses such as drought. Collabo-
   ration will be established with this project to exchange information (data on drought, man-
   agement plans, engagement o f communities etc).

3. UNEP - Zimbabwe - NCSA for Global EnvironmentalManagement (CEO Approved 2003)

4. UNEP - Swaziland - NCSA for Global Environmental Management (CEO Approved June
   2003)

   These projects are working to identify capacity needs to address all levels o f environmental
   management (focusing on the countries' ability to implement projects to support the global
   environmental conventions) inthe relevant countries. Preliminary assessments done in each
   country point to the need for strong capacity building programs at different levels for these
   initiatives to be successfbl.    The SADC groundwater project will utilize the results of the
   NCSAs (normally implemented over 12 months) to help build on local and national ground-
   water management capacity.

   Understanding the use, management and protection o f groundwater in international river ba-
   sins in drought prone semi-arid areas, and the impact o f groundwater and land use practices
   on groundwater dependant ecosystems (GDEs), brings together a number o f important issues
   which fit within several GEF Focal Areas and Operational Programs. In large areas o f
   Southern Africa groundwater is the only dependable source o f water for basic needs and food
   production, which, given the high variability o f the climate and increasing population pres-
   sure, potentially represents a considerable threat to both water resources (surface and
   groundwater) and GDEs, including baseflow dependent wetlands. Careful management o f
   these resources will be necessary if both the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and
   the WSSD targets are to be reached.

   The objective o fthe project is to strengthen the capacity o f SADC member States inthe man-
   agement o f transboundary groundwater resources in drought prone areas to meet human de-
   velopment needs whilst protecting groundwater dependent ecosystems. This objective falls
   within the International Waters Focal Area and is congruent with the GEF OP 9 - "Inte-
   grated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area OperationalProgram".

   The proposed project also clearly falls under the GEF's Strategic Priority IW-2:- To expand
   global coverage o f foundational capacity building addressing the two key program gaps (in
   particular that o f water scarcity and competing water use) and support for targeted learning.
   The project will contribute to addressing important transboundary groundwater systems in
   the SADC region with direct global environmental benefits associated with the proper man-



                                                    4

    agement o f the Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems (GDEs). The project under considera-
    tion will contribute directly to the targets under Strategic Priority IW-2 by developing coun-
    try-driven management programs for addressing transboundary priorities inone o f the largest
    aquifer basins inAfrica by 2006.

Rationale for Bank involvement

The World Bank's 1996 Africa Water Resources Management Initiative (AWRMI) seeks to sup-
port water resources analysis and policy reform at the national level and to assist riparian coun-
tries inthe development o f cooperative frameworks and programs in relation to shared water re-
sources. The AWRMI inturn builds upon the World Bank's long term vision o f supporting inte-
grated water resources management programs andprojects as stated inthe 1992 Water Resources
Policy and 2003 Water Resources Sector Strategy.

At present the 1999 Regional Strategy for Southern Africa is the most appropriate guide to re-
gional investments. This document identifies improvedmanagement o f transboundary resources,
including water, as one o f five opportunities for regional cooperation.

The AWRMI seeks to establish partnerships with other multi- and bilateral donor agencies and
members o f the civil society in order to strengthenongoing and planned initiatives. Within such
cooperative approaches, the Bank has a comparative advantage in:

    0   analytical and operationalwork that draws on the Bank's cross-country experience;
    0   ensuring that policy reforms are consistent;
    0   beinganhonest broker intransboundary resources such as water basins;
    0   and usingthe specific expertise o fthe International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Multi-
        lateral InvestmentGuarantee Association (MIGA)to promote private sector investments.

The present proposal, being focused on cross-country operationalwork and laying the foundation
for increased transboundary water resource management, draws on these strengths.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The proposed project will be part o f the GEF Operational Program 9 (Integrated Landwater)
which has the goal o f "helping countries utilize the full range o f technical, economic, financial,
regulatory, and institutional measures needed to operationalize sustainable development strate-
gies for international waters and their basins". This incorporates a special focus on projects in
the African region. The proposed project promotes this goal with its objective o fimproving re-
gional technical capabilities and intervention strategies to promote better management o f trans-
boundary groundwater resources.

The project contributes directly to the first two objectives o f the SADC Policy for Environment
and Sustainable Development (above) and to the newly developed SADC Water Policy by im-
proving access to water and protecting groundwater dependent ecosystems inthe Limpopo pilot
areas duringtimes o f drought, and byproviding regional tools and an institution for the improved




                                                   5

management o f groundwater in drought prone areas, including groundwater dependent ecosys-
tems (GDEs).

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The project will be financed through a GEF grant to be executed by the SADC Secretariat
through the implementation arrangements described in Section C2 below.

2. ProgramobjectiveandPhases

Not Applicable

3. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators

The project objective i s defined as: "The development of consensus on a SADC regional strate-
gic approach to support and enhance the capacity o f its member States in the definition of
drought management policies, specifically in relation to the role, availability (magnitude and re-
charge) and supply potential o f groundwater resources." This outcome contributes both to key
GEF programs and strategies as noted above, and to the overall objectives o f SADC Regional
Groundwater Management Program.

The primary target groups for the project are the users o f groundwater and groundwater depend-
ent ecosystems (GDEs) in drought prone areas in southern Africa. The target groups are ad-
dressed at three scales through the project - at a local level in the two pilot areas (Figure l),                at
the river basin level inthe Limpopo river basin, and at the regional level through SADC.

At the pilot level, the principal outcome o f the project will be learning and demonstration of
ground water management techniques inthe Limpopo pilot areas so that communities and users
o f GDEs will be better able to mitigate against the negative effects o f groundwater drought inthe
long term. While communities inthe pilot areas may not experience a groundwater drought dur-
ing the implementation of the project, they will be better equippedto deal with these phenomena
as a result of the activities. The outputs at the pilot level will consist o f limited physical infra-
structure (monitoring boreholes, extraction boreholes, pans, alluvial sand storage curtains', etc),
and non-structuralmeasures such as improved government capacity, strengthening o f groundwa-
ter user groups, heightened community awareness o f the need to manage groundwater and de-
pendent ecosystems on a long-tenn basis and possibly water pricing. Inaddition, water conser-
vation techniques such as conjunctive use o f surface and groundwaters and improvements in re-
charge will betested inthe pilot studies ifcircumstances are suitable.

At the national and regional level, the objective will be the buildingo f consensus on a transbor-
der approach to groundwater management, includingtools for management and decision making,
Environment Ministries (and equivalent institutions) represent the national stakeholders and the

'Alluvialsand storage curtains are small subsurface barriers constructed across sand rivers to impound floodwaters
and thereby recharge alluvial aquifers.


                                                         6

SADC Environment and Land Management Unit represents the regional constituency with an
interest inbetter management o f the GDEs. As a result o f the project, these institutions will be
better able to manage GDEs through the knowledge gained, the provision of tools such as maps
andguidelines, andthe establishment of aregional institution.

Progress towards achieving reduced groundwater drought vulnerability will be measured
through:

    0   the development and implementation o f agreed management plans at pilot level;
    0   an improved ability o f local groundwater users and GDEs to survive groundwater drought
        conditions ;
    0   the ability of government officials to support the continuation and replication o f these in-
        terventions; and
    0   the application o flessons learnt andthe use ofmanagement tools at regional level.

At the regional scale, the principal outcome will be supporting the strategy and institutional op-
tiods that emerge from this consensusbuildingprocess including regional management tools and
the potential establishment o f a regional Groundwater Management Institute o f Southern Africa
(GMISA). The GMISA will contain knowledge about managing groundwater droughts, includ-
ing water conservation techniques such as conjunctive use and improved recharge, and thereby
contribute to a long term solution to the problem across the SADC region. Progress will be
measured by endorsement by the SADC Water Resources Technical Committee o f the regional
tools (maps, database, knowledge management system) and guidelines; dissemination o f the
guidelines to member countries; and the establishment of the GMISA will contribute to a long-
term solution to the problem across the SADC region, including completion o f its initial staffing
andworkplan.

4. Projectcomponents

ComDonent 1- Development, testing and demonstration of a groundwater drought man-
agement planfor the Limpoporiver basinpilotareas

        Rationale: The primary objective o f this component i s to test the application and replica-
        bility o f methods of decreasing the vulnerability o f local communities and GDEs to the
        effects o f groundwater droughts. The rationale is also to ensure that practical on-the-
        ground benefits accrue to local people from the project. The Limpopo basin has been se-
        lectedpartlybecause o f the pressures its groundwater resources are facing, partly because
        of the extent o f GDEs inthe basin and partly because the groundwater assessment inthe
        Limpopo River Basin has been specifically identified as a priority inthe SADC Regional
        Groundwater Management Program. Two pilot areas have been selected within the Lim-
        pop0 Basin (Figure 1) because they were trans-boundary, representative of GDEs, bio-
        diverse, drought-prone,had good data availability, andhad good local support.

        Target Group and Outcome: Local communities, including local government, inthe pilot
        areas are the main target groups o f this Component. Target groups also include the river
        basin organisations, particularly LIMCOM, and regional offices o f national Water De-



                                                  7

    partments and Environment Departments. The main outcome at local level in the pilot
    areas will be improved long-term ability to withstand the negative impacts groundwater
    droughts on water security and groundwater dependent ecosystems.

    Inputs: Inputs will include expertise in communications, facilitation and capacity build-
    ing to assist in the establishment and strengthening o f stakeholder arrangements to de-
    velop an agreed management plan. Further inputs will be funds and technical expertise
    for physical interventions and data gathering, monitoring and interpretation to capture the
    `learnings' from the pilot exercises. Where possible, a local tertiary institution will be
    involved indata gathering.

    Outputs: The outputs o f this component will be improved ability o f stakeholders in the
    pilot areas to manage groundwater and GDEs, the small infrastructure assets constructed
    in the pilot areas to reduce the shocks of groundwater droughts and the `learnings' de-
    rived from the pilot process which will be the input to Component 2 o f the project - the
    development o fregional groundwater drought management support.

    Sector Issues: This component will provide a greater understanding at the local level of
    the role o f groundwater indrought prone areas and measures which can be taken to bal-
    ance humandemandwith the needs o f GDEs.

Component2 -Regionalgroundwaterdrought managementsupport

    Rationale: Inspite o f the importance of groundwater resources for regional growth, fun-
    damental tools for transboundary groundwater management, such as hydrogeological
    maps and maps o f groundwater vulnerability and water scarcity, are not available in the
    SADC region. As a result there i s little consensus on the measurement and management
    o f these resources. The tools developed in this component, together with the improved
    knowledge generated through the research sub-component, meet some o f the specific
    needs identified by the SADC Regional Groundwater Management Program and will
    contribute to buildingconsensus on the management o ftransboundary resources,

    Target ~ O U Pand Outcome: Groundwater and environment managers from national
    agencies throughout region and SADC Environment staff will have access to an agreed
    mapping o f transboundary and national aquifers as a basis for future joint management,
    improved knowledge o f GDEs and the value o f groundwater, and a set o f guidelines for
    local groundwater drought management planning.

    Inputs: Hydrogeological map and data (from associated French govemment fundedpro-
    jects); land use, economic and ecosystem data-sets. Climate data will be accessed from
    national institutions andregional Drought MonitoringCentre.

    Outputs: Improved knowledge o f groundwater-dependent ecosystems, economic valua-
    tion of groundwater; maps o f groundwater vulnerability and water scarcity; greater
    awareness amongst decision-makers o f groundwater role; guidelines on better manage-
    ment of groundwater-dependent ecosystems throughout region. The translation o f infor-



                                             8

      mation gained through the pilot programs, regional data and information, and the GDE
      research into practical management tools and guidelines will make the output o f the pro-
      ject both accessible anduseful at regional and national levels.

       Sector Issues: Greater understanding o f GDEs and their vulnerability will contribute to
      their protection and the sustainability o f fragile resources upon which rural communities
       depend. The impact upon and use o ftransboundary aquifers, particularly inthe Limpopo
      River Basin will be better understood through the project together with the development
       o f local management and physical modalities to `drought-proof local areas or at least in-
       crease their ability to cope with groundwater drought.

Component3 -Establishmentof the GroundwaterManagementInstituteof Southern
Africa (GMISA)

       Rationale: There i s a need to maintain a long-term regional awareness and capacity to
       address groundwater drought because o f the climatic variability and unpredictability in
       the region. This i s both to provide follow-through to the project (the implementation pe-
       riod o f which may not coincide with a drought event) and to maintain readiness and ca-
       pacity for future inevitable drought events which may occur anywhere in the SADC re-
       gion, The SADC Regional Groundwater Management Program has identified the need
       for an institution (sub-proj ect 6) to raise understanding o f groundwater management
       through research, knowledge management, coordination and capacity building. The de-
       gree o f consensus for the establishment o f the Institute and the commitment to its finan-
       cial sustainability on the part o f the SADC Member States will be determined as a pre-
       requisite for the establishment o f the Institute.

       The provision o f a Groundwater Drought Monitoring Fund (GDMF) to the Institute will
       enable continuity o f the project research program (included in Component 2) and assist
       the Institute to establish itself, to continue monitoring the pilot areas and set up an initial
       research program. This will greatly extend the value of the project, particularly given
       that the project period may not coincide with a regional drought event. The GDMF, ad-
       ministered and guidedby the GMISA will be a key element inthe management and pro-
       tection o f shared international aquifers in the SADC region and their dependent ecosys-
       tems.

       Target D-OUP and Outcome: National environment and water resource managers, SADC
       Water Division and Environment Units, and developing River Basin Organizations will
       have a regional institution that provides data, knowledge, training and other capacity
       building, coordination with other regional activities and awareness raising o f groundwa-
       ter management.

       Inputs: The Institution will be established with initial support from the project together
       with in-kindsupport from the host institution. The data and knowledge derived from
       Components 1 and 2 will also comprise significant inputs to the establishment o f the In-
       stitution. The GDMF will also assist inensuringthe sustainability o fthe Institute.




                                                   9

         Outputs: Institution capable o f taking lead role in regional groundwater drought man-
         agement, ifthere i s sufficient consensus and established commitment to the financial sus-
        tainability o fthe Institute on the part o fthe SADC Member States.

         Sector Issues: Provides node for promoting improved management to the benefit o f all
         sectors described inA.1.

Component4 -Projectmanagementandadministration

        Rationale: The project management i s designed to provide maximum external support to
         SADC Water Division (SADC-WD) through a Project Steering Committee, a Project Ser-
         vices Agency and a Project Management Unit inresponse to lessons from earlier projects.

5. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

Experience from a wide range o f current work throughout the African Continent and inparticular
from programs such as the Nile Basin Initiative suggests that for projects to be successful related
to shared intemational waters (both surface and groundwater), there is a need for the riparian
countries to establish a common vision for action andto have political commitment at the highest
possible level. Inthe case o f this project, the RevisedSADC Protocol on Shared Watercourses i s
the common framework agreed to by all the Member States which i s currently being translated
into a common management approach inthe Limpopo and other river basins. The current project
will support the Limpopo River Basin Organisation (NO) and develop common tools to be
housed in the regional institution to be established by the project as a precursor to a wider re-
gional approach to transboundary groundwater management.

GEF experience also stresses the needfor implementing agency collaboration and donor coordi-
nation, SADC has established a strategic reference group consisting o f various donors to provide
advice to the implementation o f the Regional Strategic Action Plan (RSAP). The present project
i s part o f a Regional Groundwater Management Program being supported by various other do-
nors (see Technical Annex l).

Experience also illustrates the importance o f full stakeholder involvement inproject preparation
and implementation. The project concept presentedinthis PAD is an outcome o f the significant
consultative process that was part o f the development o f the Regional Strategic Action Program
(RSAP) and, subsequently, the regional groundwater management program. The project itself
will be steeredby a group containing all stakeholders.

The Groundwater Management Advisory Team (GW-MATE), formed with the support o f the
Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program, has been supporting the design o f the current pro-
ject, by drawing on the multi-disciplinary intemational experience o f its members. GW-MATE
was formed with support from the Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program to promote a
shift in emphasis from groundwater resource exploitation to improved management o f the re-
source.




                                                     10

Experience through a number o f World Bank engagements with the SADC Secretariat, including
thepreparationphase o fthis project, indicates that SADC has limitedproject management capac-
ity. The management of the present project has therefore beendesigned to provide as much ex-
temal support as possible through the appointment of a Project Services Agency to carry out the
day-to-day administrative, financial and procurement activities and a Project Management Unit
that will be responsible for the content o f the project and the achievement o f the project objec-
tives. An alternative implementation arrangement could have been direct implementation o f the
project bythe SADC Water Divisionwith administration and financial management beingunder-
taken directly by the SADC Secretariat, however the experience during the project preparation
phase under a GEF PDF B Grant indicates that project implementation i s not the strength or the
hnction o f the SADC Secretariat or the Water Division. There i s no experience of past com-
pleted World Bank projects being undertaken by SADC and therefore no relevant World Bank
OED reports (Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs), Project Performance Assessment Re-
ports (PPARs) etc.)

A key element o f the sustainability o f the proposed GMISA is the extent to which the commit-
ment of the SADC Member States to the financial viability o f the Institution can be determined
and fostered.




 Figure 1-LimpopoRiver Basinand East and West Pilot areas




                                                 11

6. Alternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection

The project is specifically designed to meet the needs o f the SADC member countries, The
SADC Water Resources Technical Committee has emphasized the need to achieve practical on-
ground results through work at local level. The pilot subcatchment component will develop and
implement strategies for water supply for human needs and the protection o f life supporting eco-
systems, as well as provide valuable input to the regional components and LIMCOM. The re-
gional and basin situation reports emphasize the impediment to management of GDEs due to a
lack o f basic data. Consequently, this project will support the collection of environmental and
economic data on GDEs. The other regional components -regional management tools and a
Groundwater Management Institute o f Southern Aliica - are included in direct response to the
request o f the Sub-committee for Hydrogeology. They will provide a common base on which
regional groundwater drought management canbe developed.

The general design o f the project emerged from an assessment o f alternatives carried out by
SADC as part o f the RSAP. The extensive situation analysis carried out at that time assessed
general aspects of groundwater management keepinginmindthe need to promote regional coop-
eration. Forty-four water resource development projects were considered. Thirty-one o f these
were then selected, usingfive criteria that represented the agreed development needs o f countries
in the region. This analysis subsequentlyledto the adoption of the overall groundwater man-
agement program. SADC (with support o f its donors) subsequently recommended that the
groundwater management program should focus on drought management issues and the devel-
opment o f regional management tools because o f the importance o f groundwater resources in
arid areas and the agreed need to adopt a regional approach to transboundary aquifers.

The Project Steering Committee selected the Limpopo Basin for the pilot project activities be-
cause o f the pressures it i s experiencing, the importance o f GDEs in the basin and the need to
support LIMCOM. Eight potential pilot areas within the Limpopo Basin were selected for
evaluation. Data were collected against eight criteria2, including three socio-political criteria,
The country representatives on the project Steering Committee assessed these potential sites in
March 2003 and endorsed the two pilot areas shown inFigure1and described inAnnex 17.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The project i s a partnership between SADC (working through the Water Division), the govem-
ments and government departments o f SADC Member States, the PMU and the stakeholders (in
particular the user communities in the pilot areas o f the Limpopo River Basin). The project i s
co-financed directly between GEF and the Swedish International Development Cooperation
Agency (Sida), and indirectly through contributions from the French and German governments
(through a hydrogeological mapping program, the outputs o f which are important inputs to the
project) and the SADC Member States.


'Replicability,drought proneness, impact onbiodiversity, shared resource, data availability, user demand, water
use, and socio-economic characteristics.


                                                      12

Sida i s providing 0.5 million US dollars as co-financing to the project. These funds are in the
form o f Bank implementedTrust Funds and will be employed through the AWRMI on activities
agreed with SADC.

The project will be carried out in close collaboration with a hydrogeological mapping program,
components o f which are funded by the French and German governments. The mapping activi-
ties in sub-component 2.1 of the current project will be based on the hydrogeological map. The
map and associated databases will complement the vulnerability and scarcity mapping activities.
These projects will all be coordinated through the SADC-WD andjointly overseen by the Project
Steering Committee.

The first phase o f the development o f the hydrogeological maps for the Southem African region
i s an exploratory phase entitled "Preliminary Study for the Development o f the Hydrogeological
Map and Atlas for the SADC Region". This has been funded by the French Government (US$
80,000) and has beenundertaken duringthe preparationphase o f the project which i s the topic o f
this PAD. The mapping exercised i s to be financed bythe German Govemment to the amount o f
1million Euros and is currently under preparation. The proposed Groundwater Management In-
stitute o f Southern Africa will be the custodian o f the outputs of these projects.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Period o f Implementation: The period o f implementationi s four years.

Executing Agency and the Steering Committee: The SADC Water Division (SADC-WD) i s the
Executing Agency o f the Project. It i s located within the Directorate for Infrastructure & Ser-
vices o f SADC Secretariat located in Gaborone, Botswana. The implementation o f the Project
will be guided by a multi-stakeholder Project Steering committee (PSC). At the technical level,
the SADC-WD is also guidedbythe Water Resources Technical Committee (WRTC).

The Steering Committee will report to the SADC Water Resources Technical Committee
(WRTC), and the Integrated Committee o f Ministers. Local stakeholder committees will be es-
tablished inthe pilot areas to guide local project activities.

The Limpopo Basin pilot activities will be carried out in close collaboration with the Limpopo
River Basin Commission (LIMCOM) which will be represented on the Steering Committee.

Proiect Management Unit (PMU) and the Project Services Agency (PSA): The Executing
Agency o f the project (SADC-WD) will work through: (a) a Project Management Unit (PMU)
for technical implementation, and (b) a Project Services Agency (PSA) for conducting the finan-
cial management, administration and procurement functions. The GMISA (to be set up during
the project) will have a small unit to ultimately take over the functions o f the PMU and PSA, in-
cluding procurement and financial administration.




                                                  13

PSA:

Project contracting, disbursement and financial management and reporting will be handled
through the PSA as these activities are beyond the capacity and functions o f SADC-WD as cur-
rently constituted. The PSA will be a management group with experience inthe administration
o f development projects and that meets Bank requirements for financial management and pro-
curement. Both the P M U and the PSA will report to the SADC Secretariat through the SADC-
WD. The SADC Secretariat, being the project executing agency, will fulfill its responsibilities
for meeting Bank financial and procurement requirements through the PSA. Thus the SADC
Secretariat will be relieved o f day-to-day functions o f the management and administration o f the
project whilst remainingthe responsible executing agency.

On behalf o f SADC-WD, the PSA will establish the PMU and contract a range o f consultants to
carry out the pilot and regional activities. There i s considerable groundwater expertise in gov-
ernment agencies, NGOs and the private sector inparts of the region -particularly in South Af-
rica, Namibia and Botswana- and wherever possible this expertise will be usedinthe project.

UNOPS has beenidentified by SADC through approved procurement processes as the PSA.

An Independent Review Panel o f consultants will be at the disposal of SADC-WD. The objec-
tive of the Panel will be to provide an extemal resource to the project to reviewthe technical and
scientific plans, technology use, hydro-geology, GDEs, social and economic impact etc.

PMU:

The P M U will be established in Gaborone, Botswana, in a separate office to the SADC-WD.
Therole o fthe P M Uwill be to manage and coordinate the various consultancies that will be con-
tracted to undertake the different project activities. Technical staff for the PMU will be region-
ally selected through open competition according to criteria agreed with the Bank,

Financial Management

Financial management arrangements will be as per Annex 7: Financial Management and Dis-
bursement Arrangements. Adequate financial management staff and systems to ensure compli-
ance with Bank financial management requirements will beprovided through PSA.

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomeshesults

The endorsement of the project outcomes by the Water Resources Technical Committee and the
subsequent adoption o f the tools and use o f the Institute by the member countries will constitute
the ultimate measure o f the extent to which the Development objectives are met. The data for
these indicators will come from the minutes of the Committee. Progress with the individual
components will be monitored through annual indicators that have been set for each component.
Data for these indicators will come from a variety o f sources, including contractor reports, spe-
cial social surveys carried out in the pilot areas, a post-completion survey o f government water
 departments, and annual project progress reports submitted by SADC-WD to the Bank. The



                                                  14

PMU will have direct responsibility for collecting data on progress against these indicators and
ensuring that it i s included in the reports. A Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy will be pre-
pared for the project.

Costs o f monitoring are built into the budget, including the surveys o f acceptance o f the man-
agement plan in the pilot project areas and the post-completion survey o f adoption by govern-
ment agencies.

The indicators will be included in the annual progress reports and will be assessed against the
targets agreed when the project i s effective. Slippage against these targets will be discussed dur-
ing Bank supervision missions and the reasons for the slippage will be assessed. The Aide-
Memoirs will contain any actions that are agreed to correct serious problems that are uncovered
bythe indicators.

Monitoring and evaluation will be strengthenedby the independent Mid Term Review and the
provision inthe project budget for the services o f an IndependentReview Panel which will com-
prise international andregional experts who will review andcomment on every aspect o f the pro-
ject on a continuous basis throughout the project. The Independent Review Panelwill review the
conceptual and scientific design assumptions and outputs o f the project and provide guidance to
the Project Steering Committee and the PMU (the Panel will not be engaged inproject manage-
ment issues). This will assist in ensuringthe scientific validity of the outputs which will inturn
strengthenthe sustainability and replicability o fthe outputs.

4. SustainabilityandReplicability

SADC's commitment to the project i s illustrated by the extensive process that gave rise to the
proposal as well as the support received during preparation. The SADC Sub-committee on
Hydrogeology acted as the Steering Committee for the preparation activities. Representation on
this committee was by those officials responsible for groundwater management within govern-
ment departments.      The Sub-committee noted the importance o f this project to SADC member
countries during progress reviews o f the RSAP. It i s planned that this committee will form the
core o f the Project Steering Committee for project implementation along with a broader repre-
sentation o f stakeholder groups, thus ensuringcontinuity o f oversight andcommitment.

The tools developed during the project for regional management o f groundwater will be sus-
tained through the SADC system and the Groundwater Management Institute o f Southern Africa
(GMISA).      The Institute i s the most important element for the long-term sustainability o f the
project's outputs. It will have the role o f promoting the concept o f regional management o f
groundwater resources, building understanding about the benefits o f regional management, de-
veloping capacity and furthering the use o f the tools developed duringthe project.

The sustainability o f the GMISA is o f critical importance. Sustainability will require four main
criteria - a) political endorsement and commitment; b) adequate leadership, c) technical and ad-
ministrative competence, and d) financial security. One o f the primary objectives o f the estab-
 lishment phase o f the Institute duringthe first 2 ?4years o f the project will be to ensure that these




                                                   15

criteria are achieved, without which the establishmentof the GMISA will not proceed. The
measures taken to ensure this will therefore be determined duringthe project but would include:

        a) The SADC Secretariat will be requestedto canvas and re-affirm the commitment to the
        establishment of the Institute by the Member States. This will need to include appropri-
        ate commitment to the financial sustainability o fthe Institute (see d. below).

  0     b) Careful identification of the host institution within SADC such that the working condi-
        tions o f the head and small staff of GMISA are conducive to attracting the highest caliber
        o fprofessionals. The search process for the staff o f the Institutewill also need to be very
        thorough.

        c) The institute will be established duringthe course o f the project so that it operates con-
        currently with the project for 2 years. During this time the staff will benefit from a
        plannedprogram of training and development which is provided for inthe project budget.
        This will ensure that the Institute is competentlyrunandthe service that it provides to the
        SADC region i s o f the highestprofessional standard.

        d) Financial sustainability is critical and will require creative and sustained effort. A
        numbero favenueswill be investigatedsuch as:
            ---  `subscriptions' from the SADC Member State governments,
                the sale o fproducts, outputs and services,
                levies on research funds administered by the Institute, and
            -   fundraising.

        The costs o f runningthe Institute for the first two years will come from the project budget
        which will provide the opportunity for finances to be secured for the continued function-
        ing o f the organization. The 0.5$ million Groundwater Drought Monitoring Fundpro-
        vided for in the project, whilst not intended to cover day-to-day running costs, will also
        assist the Institute to establish itself and would provide some resources for running costs
        through administration fees.

The purpose o f the Limpopo pilot component i s to test various management options at the local
scale, to leam from them and to replicate the lessons leamed through the guidelines which will
be developed for region-wide application. In addition, L I M C O M will be involved in manage-
ment o f the pilot project and, together with other international river basin organizations in the
region, will be able to replicate these lessons leamed from the pilot areas. Lessons leamed canbe
replicated inother parts of the world through the GEF framework such as the GEF'soutreach and
publication program, GEF Lessons notes, and country dialogue workshops. These avenues pro-
vide excellent opportunities for wider dissemination o fresults at the global level.

A Replication Plan will be prepared by the mid-point of the project and will be reviewed by the
Steering Committee, the SADC WD, the Review Panel and the Mid-Term Review. The Replica-
tion Plan will identify the key requirements required to ensure that the outputs o f the project will




                                                   16

  be taken up at a regional level andwithin Member States, andwill identify detailed actions to be
  undertaken duringthe remainder o fthe project periodto ensure replication.

  5. Criticalrisks and possible controversialaspects

  Risk                                      Risk    RiskMitigation Measure
                                            Rating
  Development Objective
  SADC organs weak on promoting             M       The Project Steering Committee will be struc-
  partnerships with civil society, aca-             turedso that it canpromote accessto stake-
  demic research institutions and the               holders and thereby develop the necessary part-
  private sector.                                   nerships.
  Government institutions unable to         S       The awareness campaign (sub-component 2.3)
  utilize the regional tools developed              will be specifically targeted towards increasing
  and to use the services o f the'hstitute,         support at political, management and commu-
  because:                                          nity levels for a regional approach to groundwa-
  0    Priority givento national issues             ter drought management. To this end, there
       over regional ones unless senior             needsto be a clear demonstrationo f the benefits
       managers appreciate the useful-              o f regional initiatives, andthe Limpopo pilot
       ness o f such activities                     studies will be utilized for this purpose.
  0    Shortage o f trained manpower
  0    Lack o f funds and equipment

                                            M       The Institute will behousedinan established,
  term institutional and funding support.           supportive organization and its TOR will require
                                                    it to actively seek long-term donor support.
   Comvonents
   1, Riparian countries fail to reach a    N       The riparian countries have agreed to work co-
  working relationship for management               operatively towards a L I M C O Morganization
  o ftransboundary aquifers inLimpopo               and have all endorsed the pilot project.
  pilot study.
  2.1 The regional situation report noted N         The capacity buildingactivities, together with
  the great disparity intechnical capac-            those being undertaken inparallel projects, will
   ity amongst the member countries and             be designed to draw on the established capaci-
  the associated risk that it may be diffi-         ties o f South Africa, Botswana and Namibia in
   cult to acquire the necessary data.              order to buildregional links as well as increase
                                                    technical skills inother member countries.
   2.1 Governrnent and private sector       S       The French government hydrogeologicalmap-
   agencies are unwillingto provide data            pingproject has notedthis risk andwill build
  to a regional institution.                        relationships to minimize it. The current project
                                                    will utilize this goodwill where possible. The
                                                    representatives on the Steering Committee will
                                                    be selected to provide direct high-level support
II 2.2                                              for access to data.
        Hydrogeologicalbase map i s not     M       Bothprojects are part o f the Regional ground-
   completed intime.                                water Management Program and progress i s


                                                 17

                                                   monitoredbythe SADC-WD andthe Project
                                                   Steering Committee. Inaddition, a representa-
                                                   tive o fthe Frenchfinding agency will be invited
                                                   onto the steering committee for the current pro-
                                                   ject.
2.2 Knowledge o f ecosystem depend-      S         Existingknowledge about GDEwillbeused
ence on groundwater i s not acquired               wherever possible. The research sub-component
duringproject timetable.                           will be commenced as soon as practical, using
                                                   knowledgeableregional specialists, to maximize
                                                   the potential for acquiring the knowledge intime
                                                   for other sub-comDonents.
3. The Institute is unable to acquire    M         Donor support will be partly determined by the
donor funds to finance regional                    success o f the pilot activities, the usefulness o f
groundwater drought mitigation ac-                 the regional guidelines and the willingness o f
tivities                                           membergovernments to implement the guide-
                                                   lines.
4. SADC is unable to provide the ad-     S         An experienced PSAis being contracted specifi-
ministrative support requiredby the                 cally to handlethe day-to-day administrative
donors                                              activities.
RiskRating - H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk) M(Modest Risk),N(Negligible or Low Risk)

The overall risk o fthe project is M-modest risk.

There are no specifically controversialaspects to the project,

6. Loadcreditconditionsandcovenants

The following events are specified inthe Grant Agreement as conditions to the effectiveness o f
the GEFTrustFundGrant within themeaning o f Section 12.01 (c) ofthe GeneralConditions:


(a)     The Recipient has entered into a Management Services Agreement with the Project Ser-
vices Agency under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the
provisions o f Section I11o f Schedule 3 o f the Grant Agreement, and has established an adequate
financial management system satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)     The Recipient has fumished the Bank the Project ImplementationPlan, in form and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)     The Recipient has established the Project Steering Committee inaccordance with the pro-
visions o fparagraph 1of Schedule 4 o f the GrantAgreement;
(d)     The Recipient has commenced the process o f appointing to the Project Management Unit
key staff, includinga Project Manager and a technical executive officer, with adequate qualifica-
tions and experience; and
(e)     The Recipient has appointed the independent auditors referredto inSection4.01(b) o fthe
Grant Agreement, in accordance with the provisions o f Section I11o f Schedule 3 o f the Grant
Agreement.




                                                 18

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

The Incremental Cost Analysis provides the economic analysis o f the project as a GEF supported
program. The project i s o f benefit as a `complimentary/supplementary' contribution to the de-
velopment o f knowledge o f the management and protection o f groundwater and GDEs in trans-
boundary drought prone areas, complementary to existingefforts inthe region.

The economic value of groundwater and GDEs in the SADC region has generally not been de-
termined. That these resources play a vital role in local economies (and collectively in national
economies) i s unquestioned as in many semi-arid rural areas in the region groundwater i s the
only dependable source of water without which there would be no economic activity at all, even
o f a subsistence nature. One o f the main outputs o f this project i s therefore precisely to contrib-
ute to the regional and global knowledge o fthe value o fthese resources.

The activities in the pilot areas will be carefully analyzed to determine the most cost effective
means o f improving the management o f resources and the security o f services during drought
events. The analysis will needto include offsetting the costs o f management andphysical inter-
ventions against the cost o f failure o f supply during drought and the destruction o f GDEs and
their ecological and economic benefits. Failurehas arange o fhuman, social andeconomic costs
at local and national levels including food insecurity, rural - urban migration, environmental
degradation and increased long-term risk aversion to investment at local level resulting in the
persistence o frural poverty.

The primary financial concern within the project is sustainability o f the Groundwater Manage-
ment Institute for Southern Africa (GMISA). This will be addressed as a major concern in the
establishment o f the Institute duringthe project. The issue o f financial sustainability o f the Insti-
tute is more fully addressedinSection4 above -"Sustainability andReplicability".

Financial management of the project has been an issue o f concern related to the capacity o f the
SADC Secretariat to undertake the administrative, financial management and procurement re-
quirements o f a project of this size. The capacity o f the Secretariat to undertake these activities
inrelationto the project preparationphase (through the PDF-B Grant)was appraised by aWorld
Bank Financial Management Specialist to be adequate for the preparation phase but not for the
execution phase. This conclusion i s supported by the SADC Secretariat on the basis that their
function i s not to execute projects but to coordinate and facilitate regional development issues,
To ensure adequate financial management o f the project, a Project Services Agency (PSA) will
be contracted through the project to undertake these activities onbehalfo fthe SADC Secretariat.
The details o f the h c t i o n s o f the PSA are provided inTechnical Annex 6 - Implementation Ar-
rangements.

2. Technical

Technical appraisal of the project i s accommodated through the STAP Review which focuses on
the scientific and technical soundness o f the project interms o f the GEF STAP process (Refer to



                                                     19

Technical Annex 16: STAP Review). The STAP reviewwas undertaken intwo steps which pro-
vided the opportunity to incorporate points raised by the STAP reviewer on the first draft o f the
PAD into the project design, thus strengthening the overall project design.

The technical quality o f the project will be considerably strengthenedthrough IndependentRe-
view Panel comprising international and regional experts who will review and comment on the
conceptual and scientific design assumptions and outputs o f the project and provide guidance to
the Project Steering Committee and the PMU.

3. Fiduciary

The project executing agency, SADC Secretariat, does not currently have adequate capacity, in-
cluding financial management, to implement the project, and can therefore not ensure necessary
compliance with all Bank financial management requirements. To minimize the aforementioned
risks and ensure the appropriate financial management capacity is inplace prior to Project effec-
tiveness, it i s intended to contract UNOPS as the PSA and it will be responsible for the financial
management aspect o f the project. Also, the project i s expected to set up the GIMSA, which will
have a small unit to ultimately take over, amongst other functions, the financial management.

The PSA to be constitutedby UNOPS is responsible for financial management, procurement and
administrative h c t i o n s on behalf SADC-WD. Without adequate staffing and proper segregation
o f duties, there i s a danger that some staff may perform incompatible functions resulting inpoor
overall internal control. However, UNOPS has previous experience in implementing Bank-
AssistedProjects and has handled the financial management functions for some o fthese projects.
It is familiar with Bank Financial Management procedures andrequirements. Also, it is expected
that it will provide adequate staffing inthe PSA based on the Management Services Agreement.

4. Social

The project, in conjunction with other projects in the Regional Groundwater Management Pro-
gram, has the opportunity to lay the technical basis for cooperative management o f shared aqui-
fers into the hture. However, there will need to be the development o f transboundary institu-
tional, legal and policy frameworks to be able to exploit this information. The current develop-
ment o f ZAMCOM and L I M C O M are examples o f such activities. There are no firm plans at
present for the promotion of such regional management initiatives. Groundwater management in
many SADC countries is so limited that there is a risk that countries will continue to focus on
national activities rather than take up the regional opportunities for socially and environmentally
beneficial groundwater management.

Stakeholders were involved by SADC during the development o f the RSAP out o f which the
Groundwater Management Program emerged. Stakeholders were again involved during project
preparation at both the regional and Limpopo pilot levels.

At the regional level there was a complex mechanism for government stakeholder input to the
project design through the multi-stakeholder project steering committee, SADC Sub-committee
on Hydrogeology, SADC-WD, SADC Water Resources Technical Committee (WRTC), the Sec-
toral Committees o f Ministers and the Council o f Ministers. In addition, the consultants under-


                                                 20

takingthe regional situation analysis contacted management agencies inall member countries to,
inter alia, obtain their inputs to the project design, including components such as the proposed
Institute.

Representatives o f member countries, through the project steering committee, selected the pilot
areas. The consultants undertaking the Limpopo situation analysis consulted with rural commu-
nities at 5 sites to understand their use and dependency on groundwater as well as their percep-
tions o f its availability and quality. A workshop was held in May 2003 to provide input from
stakeholder groups into the design o f the project. Special attention was given to the importance
of protecting GDEs at this workshop.      Industry, central and local government, conservation in-
terests, and catchment managers were represented at the workshop.

The implementation o f the project will be overseen by a steering committee comprising govern-
ment representatives (based on the steering committee formed for the project preparation) to-
gether with representatives o f other stakeholders including private sector and community groups.

The pilot area situation report did not note any instances of traditional rights or entitlements al-
though it didrecord occurrences o f unequal access to groundwater.

The pilot project will inevitably advantage communities inthe pilot areas over those elsewhere in
the Limpopo basin. For this reason, it i s imperative that this component o f the project i s treated
as a pilot activity and not just as an end initself. That is, the results from the pilot must be dis-
seminated to the Limpopo basin area (through LIMCOM) and the rest o f the region through the
development of guidelines for local management plans and the activities o f the Institute.

The monitoring program will include assessment o f improvements in social wellbeing in the pi-
lot areas through surveys and feedback via the steering committee.

5. Environment

The project i s specifically aimed at developing an improved understandingo f GDEs and testing
management plans that will reduce the stress on these ecosystems inthe pilot areas by promoting
more sustainable use o f groundwater.

Poor rural communities are the prime beneficiaries inthe pilot areas. The pilot areas include por-
tions o f four countries - Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe. The communi-
ties in the different countries vary in terms o f their comparative wealth / poverty. Whilst small
scale agriculture provides some degree o f food security, one o f the main sources o f income i s
from migrant labor remittances. The communities depend largely on groundwater resources for
drinkingwater, small scale irrigation and stock watering. The tourist activities inthe pilot areas
are also reliant on groundwater and the sustainability o f GDEs. The management plans which
will be developed inthe pilot areas as part o f the project, and then promoted throughout the re-
gion via the guidelines, will be designed to reduce the vulnerability o f these communities to
droughts by institutingbetter management practices, improved monitoring, and the construction
o f infrastructureto provide better storage and increased recharge o f groundwater.




                                                  21

The regional and basin level situation reports make it clear that there are localized instances o f
nitrate pollution from human and cattle excretions where the concentrations are so high as to
pose a threat to the health o f those using the groundwater. The project will also promote the need
for reduced groundwater pollution in its Public Awareness sub-component. It i s expected that
this campaign will be well received, given the receptiveness o f participants at the Stakeholder
workshop to the needfor reducing these sources o fpollution.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                   N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP 4.11)
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revisedas OP 4.10)
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)

Safeguard Screening Category
The Safeguard Screening Category i s S3.
Environmental Screening Category
The Environmental Screening Category i s C.

Key Safeguard Policy Issues
The project has pilot scale interventions intwo pilot areas inthe Limpopo River Basin which are
designed to test the application and replicability o f methods of decreasing the vulnerability o f
local communities and GDEs to the effects o f groundwater droughts. The pilot areas are in an
international water course - the Limpopo River Basin and therefore OP/BP 7.50, "Projects on
International Waterways", i s triggered. However, the four riparian countries o f the Limpopo
river (Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe) are beneficiaries to the project as
the project will be implemented in each o f those countries. The four countries have been repre-
sented on the Project Preparation Steering Committee which has been the body responsible for
over-seeing the preparationo f the project and approving the selection o f the Pilot Areas. Each o f
the four riparian countries has sent specific Letters o f Endorsement o f the project, which i s a
GEF requirement, and these are on file. Moreover, the recipient o f the GEF grant will be the
SADC Secretariat which i s mandated to implement the project by the SADC Member States in-
cluding the Limpopo riparian states. Under these circumstances the requirement o f notification
o f other riparians does not apply.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             22

Capacity to Implement Recommendations
Policy OP7.50, although formally triggered, i s already satisfied because o f the involvement o f all
SADC countries in the project selection and preparation. The capacity varies greatly across the
four countries bordering the Limpopo basin. South Africa and Botswana have good technical,
legal and institutional capacities for implementing safeguard requirements. Zimbabwe and Mo-
zambique have poorer capacities. However, giventhat the project i s designed to reduce stress on
the environment, it i s unlikely that there will be any impacts andthe existing capacities should be
sufficient.

The extent to which the project would trigger the safeguard policies was discussed with SADC
officials during project preparation and it was agreed that the requirements o f OP7.50 had been
met.

7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness         -
No exceptions required.




                                                   23

                          Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
                          SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagement Project

SADCgroundwater related activities
The Southern African Development Community (SADC) was formed by Treaty in 1992, to replace the
earlier Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference. The Treaty was amended in 2001 to ac-
commodate more counties and the changing objectives o f the region. Thirteen countries - Angola, Bot-

Zambia, and Zimbabwe - are now members.
swanna, DRC, Lesotho, Mauritius, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Afiica, Swaziland, Tanzania,


SADC has the overall objective o f "attaining an integrated regional economy on the basis o f balance, eq-
uity and mutual benefit for all member States". This overall objective will be pursuedthrough three spe-
cific development objectives:


     0    Poverty alleviation
          Foodsecurity
     0    Industrial development

In 1996 SADC developed a policy and strategy for environment and sustainable development. This strat-
egy identified five priorities for action including: environmental monitoring networks, reports and guide-
lines; reducing threats to human health and to ecosystems; promoting sustainable developments for bene-
fit o f future generations; managing shared natural resources on an equitable and sustainable basis includ-
ingintemational river basins; and acceleratingregionalintegrationand capacity building.

The member counties o f SADC identified water as a key resource that can benefit from cooperative
management and established the SADC Water Sector in 1996 with a secretariat to coordinate projects in
this area. Two notable outputs from the Water Sector are the SADC Protocol on Shared Watercourse
Systems (and its subsequent amendment), and the Regional Strategic Action Plan (RSAP) for Integrated
Water Resources Developmentand Management.

The SADC Water Resources Technical Committee (WRTC), the Sectoral Committees o f Senior Officials
and Ministers o f Water achowledged that more attention should be given to groundwater development
and protection. To address these issues a SADC Sub-committee for Hydrogeology has been established
with membership o f each Member State. A Regional Groundwater Management Program (RGMP) was
initiated in 1996 with the overall objectives o f promoting the sustainable development o f groundwater
resources, capacity building and supporting the development and implementation o f management frame-
works at different scales. The Program was approved in 1998. It includes ten sub-projects:

     1. Capacity Buildinginthe Context o f a Regional Groundwater Management Programme.
     2. Formulation o f Minimum Common Standards for Groundwater Development in the SADC Re-
          gion (French government support - COMPLETE).
     3.   Establishment o f a Regional Groundwater Information System.
     4. Establishment o f a Regional Groundwater MonitoringNetwork.
     5. Compilation o f a Regional Hydrogeological Map and Alas for the SADC Region (French gov-
          ernment support - INPROGRESS).
     6. Establishment o f a Regional Groundwater Research InstituteKommission.
     7. Construction o f a Website on Internet and publication o f quarterly Newsletters (COMPLETE).
     8.   Regional Groundwater Resource Assessment o f Karoo Aquifers (ISARM project - IN PRO-
          GRESS).
     9. Regional Groundwater Resource Assessment o f Precambrian Basement Aquifers.


                                                      24

     10. Groundwater Assessment o fthe Limpopo/Save Basin.

These sub-projects are being progressively implemented with support from SIDA, the government o f
France, BGR Germany, DFID, and UNESCO.The current proposal will contribute to sub-projects 1,3,4,
5, 6, and 10.

Current status of groundwater
The continental SADC region covers 6.8 million km2 and has 15 major transboundary rivers and numer-
ous, albeit poorly understood, transboundary groundwater resources. In fact, every continental SADC
country shares one or more o f its water systems and about 80% o f the region falls within a transboundary
water system.

Rainfall i s highly variable across most o f the region resulting inperiodic droughts and floods. Drought i s
a term with a wide variety of definitions. Meteorological drought i s defined by the degree o f dryness
(lack o f precipitation) and the duration o f the dry period. Social drought incorporates a consideration o f
the demand placed on the water resource by different users. Groundwater drought describes when
groundwater resources fail as a consequence o f meteorological drought. However, the link between
groundwater and meteorological drought i s poorly understood, with groundwater drought typically occur-
ring later than meteorological drought. One consequence o f this i s that those in groundwater dependent
areas do not always receive assistance because the crisis i s perceived to have past when the surface
drought i s over, whereas the groundwater drought may be far from over.

Drought i s endemic to much o f the region with major droughts occurring in 1946-7, 1965-6, 1972-3,
1982-3, 1986-8, 1991-2 and 1994-5. The region's water resources influence all aspects o f the region's
social and economic development, including hydropower, navigation, fishing, tourism, drinking water
supplies, agriculture and industry and so these droughts have had major economic and social impacts.
Duringthe 1991-2 drought the Malawian Kwacha was devalued by 40% and over 3 million people were
without adequate water supplies. InZimbabwe, South Africa and Lesotho severe water shortages affected
large areas requiring emergency relief programs3. Many o f these people had been dependent on ground-
water.

Some major aquifer types which occur across the region include: dambo systems4 supporting year round
vegetable production; low-yielding aquifers consisting o f deeply weathered basement rock (widely used
to supply drinking water); sandstone formations; and aquifers in alluvial sediments associated with rivers
and streams. Eachpossessesdistinct management challenges.

The status o f groundwater development in each individual country largely reflects the importance o f the
resource inthat country. Member states such as Namibia, Botswana and South Africa, are largely depend-
ent on groundwater and are actively integrating the use o f groundwater intheir water resources manage-
ment policies. Other SADC Member States, that rely mostly on surface water, have little understanding o f
their groundwater resources. The vulnerability o f groundwater supply systems to drought often results
from the poor design and insufficient depth o f wells, along with inappropriate pumping devices. The lack
o f water level monitoring and prediction i s an aggravating factor.

Inthe SADC region, 37% o f the populationrely upon formal or improved groundwater supplies and 23%
on reticulated supplies from surface water sources. The remaining 40% rely upon unimproved sources,
which may be either groundwater or surface water, and which are generally unsafe and often prone to
drought. About one third o f the people in the region live in drought prone areas. Inthe driest part o f the


  More details o f the impact o f droughts are available inthe Regional Situation Analysis report.
  Shallow colluvial sediments associated with seasonally inundated headwater swamps


                                                            25

region, groundwater i s the primary source o f drinkingwater for the human population and livestock, irri-
gation for agriculture, industrial uses and town supply. It i s also essential for wildlife and other biota and
hence i s fundamental to the tourism industry inthese dryland areas.

Activities inthe domestic, agriculture, mining, industry and urban sectors can also degrade the groundwa-
ter resources. The widespread use o f on-site sanitation in rural and urban parts o f the region can cause
contamination o f shallow aquifers in fractured or karst bedrock with pathogens and nitrates, and ground-
waters have been over-drawn in some urban and peri-urban areas. For example, current waste disposal
practices and uncontrolled drilling o f boreholes inLusaka have led to a simultaneous drop inwater levels
and an increase incontamination o f the unconfinedaquifer underlying the city.

The increase incommercial agriculture, particularly horticulture, in some parts o f the region has ledto the
contamination o f some aquifers with fertilizer derived nutrients. For example, nitrates from fertilizers
have now contaminated the shallow alluvial aquifers in the middle reaches o f the Kafue Valley in Zam-
bia. Nitrates have also entered shallow groundwater systems in the Kutama and Sinthumule districts o f
Venda, South Africa because o f modem agricultural practices under dryland cropping, and excessive
drawdown for irrigation has affected aquifers in districts such as the Lomagundi Dolomite aquifer o f
Zimbabwe.

Miningactivities have ledto the contamination of aquifers with bacteria and other contaminants as well
as the extensive loss o f water, and even destruction, of some aquifers to the detriment o f other users. Pol-
lution from mineral processing has led to the contamination o f aquifers with arsenic in Zimbabwe and
heavy metals and sulphates in shallow groundwater systems inBotswana.

Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems (GDEs)
A number o fthe regions ecosystems are dependent on groundwater.

Five wetland systems are recognised in the SADC Region: palustrine, riverine, lacustrine, estuarine and
marine systems. Each o f these systems occurs throughout the region, representing specific and usually
highly localised ecosystem (including human dependence on the services provided by the wetlands).
These services include habitat for fish and other food stocks, provision o f fibre and natural medicines,
crops for cattle grazing, and (in some cases such as the Okavango Delta and Kruger National Park) sup-
port for wildlife on which tourism industries depend.

It is clear that the impact o f groundwater drought is likely to be greatest in natural wetland ecosystems
such as those that occur in the Okavango Delta (Botswana), Zambezi, Kafue and Luangua flood plains
(Angola and Zambia), Lake Malawi and Lake Chilwa (Tanzania, Malawi and Mozambique), the Oshana
system (Namibia), the sand river systems (eastem Botswana, southem Zimbabwe and northem South Af-
rica) and the dambo/mbuga/vlei valley systems (Zimbabwe, Zambia and Tanzania) amongst others.
While all these ecosystems have received scientific study, these investigations have been mostly under-
taken from a botanical/wildlife/natural environment perspective.           The nature o f the groundwater-
ecosystem interactionhas not been reliably established, and inmany cases has not been even considered
in the study of the wetland system.      The extent to which these wetlands and other ecosystems are de-
pendent on groundwater is not known and constitutes a fundamental knowledge gap for managers. How-
ever, there i s qualitative evidence that the existence o f many o f them (and thus the existence o f all flora,
fauna and human activity that are part of them) may be threatened by changes in groundwater levels,
groundwater discharges and/or groundwater quality.




                                                      26

Inthe pilot areasofthe Limpopo River,there arebroadly three types ofGDEs:


     0   Shallow, localized regolith aquifers with a limited amount o f water storage
     0   Spring-type discharges associated with faults and contacts between rocks o f different characteris-
         tics
     0   Floodplain systems with shallow, unconfined aquifers that are recharged primarily during flood
         events.

The last o f these are believed to be the most important since they are the most likely to be used during
droughts. These floodplain GDEs provide habitat for a wide range o f flora and fauna and also provide
goods and services for rural communities. Undisturbed floodplains display a sequence o f vegetation
types as one moves away from the river. Riverbanks, particularly in depositional rivers, support reed-
beds; on main rivers there i s also typically tall riparian forest. The remainder o f the floodplain, being less
well watered, typically has a woodland community or palm savanna. Much o f this natural vegetation in
the western pilot area has been severely degraded, at least in South Africa, with the levee forest cut adrift
from the adjacent terrestrial environments by agricultural development. The eastern pilot area contains
more undisturbedareas.

There are a number of conservation areas within the two pilot areas, illustrating their ecological impor-
tance. The western pilot area i s centred on the proposed Limpopo-Shaste Transfrontier Conservation
Area which consists o f the Vhembe Nature reserve, the Limpopo Valley Game Reserve and the Venetia
Limpopo Nature Reserve in South Africa and the Northern Tuli Game Reserve inBotswana. Zimbabwe
does not have a conservation area in this pilot area although the Tuli Circle Safari Area abuts the Tuli
Game Reserve. The eastern pilot area contains parts o f the Kruger National Park (South Africa), Lim-
pop0 National Park (Mozambique) and Gonarezhou National Park (Zimbabwe). Active negotiations are
underway for these three Parks to bejoined into a Greater Limpopo Conservation Area.

The Madimbo section west o f the Kruger National Park i s a unique landscape with a wilderness character,
where the riverine vegetation includes two o f the four most endangered plant communities in the Lim-
pop0 River system. The area i s also an important migratory route for elephants and buffalo and the trans-
border floodplains are considered to be o f international importance particularly for breeding waterbirds,
fish and amphibians. The floodplain forest provides habitat for eight species o fbat, terrestrial mammals
and birds. An application i s being developed for Ramsar status for the area.

While it i s generally known that most o f these ecosystems are dependent on groundwater, there i s no
comprehensive description o f GDEs throughout the pilot areas. A comparison o f wet and dry season
LANDSAT images shows probable GDEs along most o f the watercourses o f the western pilot area and as
patches along the Limpopo and Shaste Rivers where vegetation remains. The distribution o f vigorous
vegetation inthe eastern pilot area also tracks the water courses and i s particularly prominent inthe Lim-
pop0 and Levubu floodplains and the Mwenzi River. There are also indications o f GDEs on the slopes o f
flat, basalt-topped hills southeast o f the Limpopo-Levubu confluence and possibly in the north-east (Mo-
zambique) part o fthis pilot area.

Issues Affecting Regional Groundwater Management
Lackof information. While surface water resources are generally well characterized inthe region, there
i s a dearth o f even basic information for groundwater resources. In many cases even the extent o f aqui-
fers are not known, so that it i s difficult to predict the effects o f groundwater usage in one location on
groundwater users elsewhere.

Similarly, there i s little information on the dependence o f ecosystems on groundwater. Specific ecosys-
tems such as the Okavango Delta, the Zambezi, Kafue and Luangua floodplains, fringingwetlands around


                                                        27

 Lakes Malawi and Chilwa, the Oshana system in Namibia, the sand rivers at the junction o f Botswana,
 Zimbabwe and South Africa, and the dambo valley systems have been studied. However, these studies
 have focused on the wildlife/vegetation/environmental aspects and have not paid much attention to the
 dependence o f these ecosystems on groundwater. Thus, there i s a dearth o f physical and ecological in-
 formation available on groundwater systems inthe Southem Africa region and this lack o f basic informa-
 tion limits management efforts.

 Poor appreciation of the role of groundwater. Several countries inthe SADC region share groundwa-
 ter aquifers. However, there i s little understanding o f their transboundary nature amongst managers and
 communities dependent on the aquifers. Use o f local aquifers may have a regional impact, as groundwater
 abstraction may reduce the base flow o f international river systems shared by several countries and thus
 potentially threaten ecosystems and downstream water users. Similarly, the opportunities for cooperation
 across borders to use groundwater resources to protect human and ecosystems from droughts are little
 understood. Currently there are no joint monitoring networks, let alone management plans, in place for
 those shared aquifers.

 Rainfall variability. The high degree o f variability in rainfall and the associated shocks resulting from
 severe droughts and floods have a severe impact on the economies and the life supporting ecosystems o f
 some countries o f the region. Improved management o f water resources i s at the core o f mitigating these
 water shocks. The importance o f groundwater in drought management arises partly from its ability to
 provide renewable quantities o f good quality water and partly from the storage capacity o f aquifers. If
 properly managed, these aquifers can be used to reduce the stress on surface water resources during the
 dry periods. To do this in a sustainable way - conjunctive use o f surface and groundwaters - requires a
 good understanding o f the basic properties o f the aquifer and good management structures.

 Legal and regulatory limitations. Laws inmost member countries have been drawn up with regulation
 o f surface water sources inmind. For example, inZambia there i s no reference to groundwater inthe wa-
 ter law5. The consequence i s that there i s little legal backing for managing some o f the characteristics
 peculiar to groundwater, such as establishing private and public property rights.Inaddition, water law has
 not always kept up with the increasing decentralization o f responsibility for water management and the

'rise inresponsibility of user groups.

 Even where there i s adequate legal backing, enforcement o f formal regulations i s typically weak because
 o f lack o f basic resources, and a lack o f training and capacity.

 Institutional limitations. Responsibility for management o f the basic resource i s often fragmented be-
 tween different authorities and at different scales. This issue has been exacerbated in recent years with
 the move towards decentralization o f management responsibility. Typically, local government, and Wa-
 ter Departments, Planning Departments and Environment Departments are responsible for different as-
 pects o f groundwater management, with both central and regional offices o f the departments fbrther dif-
 fusingresponsibility. Not only does this leadto convoluted decision making but it makes the provision of
 even basic information for management, such as groundwater monitoring data, more difficult to obtain.

 There i s a lack o f personnel in many government offices with training and experience in groundwater
 management, and funding constraints inmany SADC countries prevent those personnel that do exist from
 carrying out their duties. Thus, in Malawi, UNICEF (1995) have noted that it i s not uncommon for dis-
 trict level technicians to be without transport for months, making compilation o f water supply assess-
 ments impossible. Technical staff will be trained as part of the capacity building aspects o f the current
 project.

   Zambianwater law i s currentlybeingrevised.


                                                         28

As yet there are no transboundary institutions in the region tasked with managing transboundary water-
bodies. However, treaties establishing the Limpopo Basin Commission and the Zambezi River Basin
Commission are being negotiated at present. These commissions will include transboundary groundwater
management in their mandates. The former will be a potential home and source o f continuity for the in-
formation and knowledge gained inthe pilot project.

                                               --00000--




                                                    29

              Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                          SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject

For more details also see the 1 iseline Project table ir Annex 1 IncrementalCost Analysis
 Project                        Agency                   Period Relevanceto this project
 Support for the Implementa-     SADC Water Divi-        2003-  Establishment o f RBOs, including Limpopo
 tion o f the SADC protocol on   sion with a large       2008   River Basin Commission, and support to RBOs
 Shared Water Resources          group o f multilateral         incarrying out BasinPlans.
                                 and bilateral Donor            Formulation and signingo f riparian agreements
                                 Agencies                       on equitable sharing o f common water resources
 Formulation o f regional Sector SADC Water Divi-        2003-  RegionalWater Sector Strategy
 Policy and Strategy             sion with support       2005   Awareness creation o n the policy and strategy
                                 from Belgium, GWP
                                 SA, IUCN, Invent
                                 and others
 Program for the sustainable    NORAD                    2002 - Guidelines and standards for implementing
 development o f groundwater                             2005   groundwater monitoring and management at
 resources under the commu-                                      local government level
 nitywater and sanitationpro-                                    Groundwater data management system
 gram in South Africa                                            Appropriate technology introduction
 WaterNet, regionalprogram to    University o f Zim-     1999 - Support capacity building component o f this
 strengthencapacity inIWRM       babwe with funding      2005    project through its regional network o f Institu-
 inthe SADCregion                fromNEDNSida                    tions
                                 DANIDA
 SADC-HYCOS project, Hy-         DWAF-SA with            2003 - Provides real time data o n river flows inthe en-
 drological Cycle Observing      funding fromEU,         2007    tire SADC region including the Limpopo River
 System.                         Netherlands
 Zambezi Basin Wetlands Con-     CIDA                    Sept.   Ecosystem data and management. The informa-
 servation and resources Utili-                          2003 - tion from this project will be used to informthe
 zation Program                                          2005    development o f vulnerability maps
 Water Resources Management      DANIDA                  Com-    Data on water resources inthe Limuouo tributar-
                                                                                                     . .
 Study inBotswana                                        pleted  ies will be used inComponent 1
 Zambezi Action Plan             DANIDA                  Ongo-   Situational analysis including environmental,
                                                         ing     hydrological, pollution and land use planning
                                                                 studies. Will provide input information for
                                                                 Component 2
 Water Management Plan o f       FINIDA                  Com-    Includes water quality management plans in
 the Limpopo River Catch-                                pleted  several catchment areas and a water law review
 ment, east o f Messina, South                                   process inthe eastern pilot area. Plans will be
 Africa                                                          used as basis for drought management plans
                                                                 where possible
 Intemationally Shared Aquifer   UNESCO, FA0 and         Com-    Study o fjoint management o f Karoo aquifer
 Resources Management -          IAH                     pleted  betweenBotswana, South Africa andNamibia.
 Limpopo case study                                              Information will be fed into pilot area drought

 Rapid Environmental Assess-     USAID                   Com-
 ment o fthe Limpopo basin                               pleted
 Development o f Minimum         FrencWGTZ               Com-   1Provides an input to the development o f the pilot
 Common Standards for                                    pleted   areas
 Groundwater Development in
 the SADC Region
 Regional Hydrogeological        FrencWGemnBGR           2003-   Design complete. Provides base hydrogeologi-
 Map and Atlas for the SADC                              2005     cal map (1.28 millionUS$) for Component 2
 region


                                                       30

The last o f these projects i s particularly relevant to the present project since it will provide the base on
which the maps in Component 2 can be produced. It will undertake the onerous task o f collating and
standardizing the existing groundwater data fiom the SADC countries which are presently at different
scales, o f different periods and categorizations. The current project will work closely with the steering
committee for sub-project 5 to ensure that schedules are met and outputs are compatible. The SADC
member countries have expressed a strong desire to have the standardized database freely available and
accessible. To this end, the database will be maintained by the Institute along with the additional datasets
and maps developed duringthe present project.

                                                   --00000--




                                                       31

                             Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                        SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject

                                          ResultsFramework



  PDO/GlobalEnviron-                    OutcomeIndicators                   Use of ResultsInformation
     mentalObjective
m:The        development o f    SADC,RBO's & Member States bet-          0 1st six months - determine the suc-
consensus on a SADC re-         ter able to mitigate against groundwa-    cessful establishment o f the project
gional strategic approach to    ter drought by adopting the manage-      0 YR1-YR3 determine ifpilot les-
support and enhance the ca-     ment guidelines and tools                 sons are adequate for replication
pacity o f its member States                                              and upscaling
inthe definition o fdrought                                              0 YR2-establish the extent to which
management policies, spe-                                                 there i s political will to set up the
cifically inrelation to the                                                Institution
role, availability (magnitude                                            0 YR4 - indicatethe demand for the
and recharge) and supply                                                   regional guidelines and manage-
potential o f groundwater re-                                              ment tools and whether they will be
sources."                                                                  usedby Member States
Global Environmental Ob-        Greater awareness of, and scientific
jective: Groundwater de-        knowledge about, groundwater de-
pendent eco-systems in          pendent eco-systems measuredby
drought prone areas o f         refereed reports on dependence inat
SADC better understood and      least three representative ecosystems
protected

                                               ComponentOne :
 Developmentand testing ,f a groundwaterdrought manag nentplanfor the LimpopoRiver
                                                Basinpilot areas
    IntermediateResults                   ResultsIndicators                    Use of ResultsMonitoring

Stakeholders and groundwa-      0  Pilot area management plans           DImprove stakeholder involvement
ter dependent eco-systems in      adopted and implemented                 and buildcommitment to program o f
the pilot areas are less vul-                                             stakeholders
nerable to drought impacts         Senior responsible officials and       Identify level o f commitment by re-
and regional implications are     professionals aware o f /support pi-    sponsible authorities
identified                        lot area interventions and able to      Review stakeholder awareness crea-
                                  ensure sustainability o f interven-     tion effectiveness
                                  tions                                  mIndicate adequacy o f capacity to sus-
                                                                          tain maintenance and operation o f in-
                                0  75% of stakeholders indicate con-      stalled works.
                                  fidence inmeasures to reduce vul-       Improve level o f sustained commit-
                                  nerability and willingness to par-      ment between droughts
                                  ticipate inthe implementation of        Assess effect o f management plan on
                                  protective measures                     sustainability of local GDEs
                                                                          Assess the quality and effectiveness
                                0  Monitoringnetwork & interpre-          o f the Plan and its implementation -



                                                     32

                                tive processes inplace                adjust where necessary


                               0Lessons learned summarized and
                                passed onto those developing re-
                                gional tools


                          Regi                                      lentsupport
   IntermediateResults                                                    Use of ResultsMonitoring

Regional management tools       Guidelines and tools endorsed by     BDetermine SADC's commitment to
and guidelines prepared         SADC Water Resources Technical        the outputs
                                Committee                            BIdentifyand address difficulties with
                                Planned guidelines and tools dis-     accessing data from national sources
                                seminatedto 100% o f Member          BIdentify adequacy o f environmental
                                States                                data from research activities and feed
                                                                      results back to researchers

                                          ComponentThree :
              Establishment f GroundwaterManagementIns :Uteof SouthernAfrica
   IntermediateResults                 ResultsIndicators                  Use of ResultsMonitoring

Groundwater Management         0 Governance structure agreed and     0Identify difficulties insecuring ini-
Institute o f Southern Africa   established                           tial sources o f finance for recurring
established and financially     Home institution identified and       costs
viable                          agreement signed                     0Identify problems with political en-
                                 Director and senior staff appointed  dorsement o f host institution through
                               0 Workplan approved by Board o f       SADC systems
                                Directors and the Institution func-
                                tional
                                 Groundwater Drought Monitoring
                                Fundestablished

                                           ComponentFour :
                              ProjectManagementandAdmir ,tration
   IntermediateResults                 ResultsIndicators                   Use of ResultsMonitoring

Project successfully man-      0 Project activities successfully     0 Identify problem areas inthe work-
aged, administered & im-        completed                             inginterface betweenthe PSA, the
plemented                      0 Requiredreports produced and          SADC Secretariat and the P M U
                                approved
                               0 Proiect audits amroved




                                                  33

0

           2I   e
                I  eI




k
a
0   arr
     0
8 +  8,
2.g  2.g




                                     v,
                                     M
               g       g    g g
               v,      \o   W   W
         g
          2    I   I  g   g     g
                       d    W   W

                               Annex 4: DetailedProject Description
                      SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject




Pub-Component 1.1Development and testing of a Groundwater Drought ManagementPlanfor theLim-
nnnn River Basin Pilot Areas
Activities & Tasks
1. Establishlocal framework involving all stakeholders to ensure a transparent learning environment for
   the exchange o f leamings before, during and after the pilot interventions and to ensure maximumbenefit
    from the pilot demonstration activities.
2.  Collate and assess existing information and knowledge on the institutional, biological, social, formal and
    customary water rights and economic situation relevant to groundwater droughts inthe pilot areas. In
    addition prepare an inventory o f groundwater uses, users, polluters and pollution profile. Assess oppor-
    tunities for non-structural interventions such as changes inwater pricing schedules to promote conserva-
    tion.
3.  Assess regulatory provisions and institutional arrangements inthe pilot areas inthe context o f imple-
    mentation o f groundwater protectionand management. Identify impedimentsto implementation and
    propose measures to address these impediments.
4.  Establishrepresentative `nodes' within the pilot areas for interventions for groundwater drought mitiga-
    tion. To be achieved using the output o f Activity 1and inputfrom LBPTC and other stakeholders from
    the pilot areas.
5.  Develop management plans for the selectednodes, encompassing the following:
    -- physical  interventions (e.g. artificial recharge infiltration dams or sand storage curtains)
       community awareness raising/education and involvement
    - establishment o fuser organisations stakeholder management groups
    -- monitoring
       capacity buildingfor professionals and user organisations inthe pilot areas
                    o f environmental, social and economic indicators related to the intervention, including EL4
    o f proposed physical interventions
    - data gathering.
6.  Undertake data collection with assistance from local academic institution:
             -     inventory o fboreholes
             -
             ----  basic hydrogeological characteristics
                   groundwater quality
                   permeability
                   recharge areas
                   wetland ecology
7. Implementphysical interventions and associated capacity building(for professionals, technical staff and
    local government staff such as water bailiffs) and awareness raising initiatives, including conservation
    techniques such as conjunctive use and improved infiltration inrecharge areas through vegetation man-
    agement if suitable.
8.  Undertakemonitoring and evaluation o f interventionswith independent review panel
9. Establishlessons leamt from representative nodes and integrate into awareness creation programme (i.e.
    Sub-component 2.3) and decision support guidelines for groundwater drought management developed
    (under sub-component 2.4).
10. With input from the LBPTC identifyand reach agreement on ongoing operational mechanism and insti-
    tutions for continuing the local strategies.



                                                     36

4ctivities & Tasks
1.  Determine how groundwater drought vulnerability can be mappedina workable dynamic timeframe (i.e.
    develop vulnerability algorithm) [Vulnerability will entail considering GW quality and quantity inrela-
    tion to the ecological and human environment. Attention will also be given to land-use zoning]
2.  Collate existing data and assess informationrequired for vulnerability mapping for the region (consider-
    ingbothexisting in-countrynational and transboundary circumstances) including regional climate data
    from national institutions and Regional Drought MonitoringCentre.
3.  Collate and analyze historical climate events resulting ingroundwater deficiency.
4.  Agree on and prioritise transboundary aquifers for data collection and mapping at the regional scale.
    Workshop with technical experts and decision makers.
    [Prioritise regional transboundary aquifers, but also use in-country national data ifavailable for future
    mapping by the Groundwater Management Institute o f Southern Africa]
5.  Agree on monitoring plan requiredfor development o f the vulnerability map and further inputto ensure
    itremainsdynamic.
5.  Implement monitoringplan and establish update mechanism for database.
7.  Establishdata base and mapping system for the groundwater drought thematic maps.
5.  Determine how GDEs distribution and vulnerability can be mapped inworkable dynamic timeframe.
9.  Provide pertinent training and essential equipment for monitoring, ifnecessary, to transboundary Mem-
    ber States
10. Provide necessary capacity buildinginrelationto monitoring, database and mapping system develop-
    ment
11. Develop dynamic vulnerability map and associated thematic layers (from the data provided and also that
    generated from sub-component 2.2 also develop static ground water scarcity and demand maps)
12. Workshop to present and obtain approval for maps
13. Cauture lessons learned from mau develoument urocess
Sub-component 2.2 Research of Groundwater Knowledge Gaps
Activities & Tasks
1, Review existing information on ecosystemdependence on groundwater inthe SADC regionusingtech-
    nical experts inhydrogeology and wetland ecology.
2. Undertake inter-comparable data collection pertaining to:
    --- characterisation
        identification o fpotential GDEs
                          o f the GDEs indifferent hydrogeological environments
        identification o fthe nature, extent and degree o f dependency of the ecosystem on groundwater (includ-
    ingnotingthe impacts o fhistoric droughts on such system)
    - identificationand quantification o fthe goods and services deliveredto society from the GDEs
    - identification   and quantification o f the goods and services which contribute to drought resilience within
    the local society and economy.
    - indicate   the value o f the environmental role o f groundwater (with special reference to drought prepar-
    -edness)
        assess the current management systems which relate to GDEs (and their intervention duringhistorical
    droughts) and indicate how they may be strengthened to implement the necessary protection mecha-
    nisms and derive optimal benefits for drought preparedness.
    - recommendpragmatic          measures to address typical dependence cases.
3.  Store data indatabase administered by the component consultant.
4. Present results o fresearch (including data) for incorporation into other components (such as: decision
    support guideline development (sub-component 2.4), vulnerability mapping (sub-component 2.1) and foi
                                                                              _ _  -
    content to be disseminated as part o f awareness raising campaign-(sub-component 2.3j.
                                                                                      .




                                                    37

5.  Develop methodology for economic valuation o f groundwater (taking cognisance o f the economic im-
    pacts o fhistorical groundwater drought events).
6.  Select representative activities o f the region and locations for the determination o f groundwater valua-
    tion.
7. Collect additional data where necessary.
8.  Reach agreement on valuation methodology with Member States.
9. Implement methodology and establish values o f groundwater.
10. Present results o f research(including data) and methodology implementation for incorporationinto other
    components (such as: decision support guideline development (sub-component 2.4), vulnerability map-
    ping (sub-component 2.1) and for content to be disseminated as part o f awareness raising campaign


Activities & Tasks
1, Develop a focused awareness campaign strategy for the region's decision makers (targeting the water
    resource sector and sectors influencedby groundwater drought). The strategy will augment the results
    obtained duringPDF-Band other SADC WD awareness initiatives [main focus relates to the importance
    o f GW and its use inmitigating against symptoms o f drought and relation to GDE].
    - Develop the content for the various audiences through which information can be most effectively dis-
    -seminated
      Establishthe most appropriate mechanisms (i.e. the Web, newsletters, technical documentation, the
    mass media etc) for raising groundwater drought awareness
    - Establishindicators and anticipated outcomes o f such a campaign
2. Execute the awareness campaign.
3.  Capture lessons learned from awareness raising campaign including a full evaluation for inclusion inthe
    decision support guidelines for groundwater drought management and the associated knowledge man-




Activities & Tasks
1, Collate data and lessons learnt generated duringcomponent execution (this data shouldinclude data and
    knowledge obtained duringthe project preparation phase and other relatedproject throughout the re-
    gion).
2. The data will be usedto populate the knowledge management system (repository/database) and the les-
    sons learnt will be usedto produce decision support guidelines for groundwater drought management
    (withparticularreference to aspects such as social dynamics associated with `grassroots' groundwater
    drought intervention, ecosystem responses to drought, groundwater valuation methodology, vulnerabilio
    mapping, requirements for implementinggroundwater management and protection, etc).
3.  Guideline design and mechanismo f dissemination to be determined through guidance obtained from
    groundwater resource managers and lessons learnt duringcapacity buildinginitiatives (undertaken as
    part o f sub-component 1.1 and 2.1).
4.  Produce and disseminate decision support guidelines for groundwater drought management.
5.  Maintainand update knowledge management system for the full duration o f the project and transfer to
    the Groundwater ManagementInstitute o f Southern Africa (GMISA) on its establishment (sub-
    component 3.1).




                                                    38

Sub-component 3.1 Identification and Establishment Of the Groundwater Management Institute
of Southern Africa
Activities & Tasks
Phase 1-Identijication of the GMISA host and ensure consensus and commitment
1. Obtain re-endorsement o f the concept o f the GMISA and the criteria for selection o f a host for the insti-
   tution. [The concept for the GMISA will centre around: (i) hosting and maintenance o f project com-
                                                                    the
   ponent outputs, (ii)  facilitation o f action-oriented research, (iii)
                                                                       technology transfer, (iv) capacity build-
   ingand (v) donor fund solicitation for groundwater drought intervention].
2. Refine and approve the criteria for host institution selection inconsultation with relevant Member States
    stakeholders. (Identify and agree on an enabling environment requirements such as day-to-day logistical
   requirements (offices, communications, IT set up etc) and a capacity to accommodate and operate the
   outputs from the other project components, e.g. database and mapping system, knowledge management
    system, etc.).
3. Undertake a regional institutional analysis for the potential host (following on from initial institutional
    analysis undertaken duringthe project preparation phase).
4.  Present a shortlist o f candidate institutions and select the GMISA host through SADC procedures.

Phase 2 -Establishment and initiation of the GMISA
5.  InconjunctionwithMemberStates:
    - design  the RDGMI
    - develop a mandate or charter for the Institution, includingrelationship with existing SADC bodies and
    staffing/planning/financial aspects for an initial periodof 5 years
6. Investigate and recommend appropriate mechanisms to ensure the operational and financial sustainabil-
    ity o fthe Institution after the project period.
7. Investigate and assess the potential o f the GMISA to function as the solicitor o f donor funds and act as
    the financing mechanism for regional / transboundary groundwater drought mitigation (e.g. upgrading
    existing water services and upgradingwater infrastructure).
8.  Generate the Terms o f Reference o f Institution staff and assist with their employment.
9.  Provide additional essential equipment to enable the institution to function (e.g. computers, etc.).
10. Provide necessary capacity buildinginrelation to monitoring, database and mapping system develop-
    ment.
11. Initiate the functioning o f the institution and the transfer of component outputs to be accommodated by
    the GMISA.
Establishment of the Groundwater Drought Monitoring Fund (GDMF)
12. Prepare GDMF Agreement including goveming rules and procedures.
13. Establishment o f GDMFAccount.




Activities & Tasks
1, Establishand activate/commission the project steering committee representing the technical, government
    and community groups benefiting from the project outputs.
2. Convene and hold annual meetings and advise SADC WD on project implementation.




                                                    39

Sub-Component 4.2 Project ServicesAgency (PSA)
Activities & Tasks
1, Procure and contract PSA according to World Bank guidelines.
2.  Set upprocedures and systems for project administration.
3.  Establishthe PMU and assist inthe procurement o f the Project Manager from within the region.
4.  Undertake administration, financial management and procurement activities in support o f the PMU (and
    on behalf o f SADC Secretariat) for the full duration o f the project.
5.  Undertake financial and Drocurement reDortinn.v
Sub-Component 4.3 Project Management Unit (PMU)
Activities & Tasks
1. Select PMUstaff (i.e. permanent staff and supporting expert panel).
2.  Develop project work plan.
3 . Implement, manage and monitor the work plan.
4.  Prepare Replication Planby project Mid-Term.
5.  Liaise with project stakeholders and coordinate project without other regional projects and initiates.
6.  Carryout project advocacy and project awareness creation roles andresponsibilities VOTE: this i s
    awareness creation relating to the project and not the groundwater drought awareness raising as to be
    undertaken as part o f Sub-component 1.1 and 2.31.
7. Ensure ongoing management o fPMU.




                                            --00000--




                                                 40

                                                      Annex 5: Project Costs
                                  SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject




Total Projectcosts                                                             7,000,000  1,171,287 1,431,337 1,879,702 2,517,674


Sida funds Bank executed Trust Fund
           -                                                                     500,000     125,000    125,000      125,000     125,000
France - Hydrogeological Mapping Project                                           80,000     80,000
Germany Hydrogeological Mapping Project - 1MEuro
          -                                                                    1,220,000    406,667    406,667       406,667
EU,Netherlands +others - SADC HYCOSprogram                                        800,000   200,000    200,000       200,000     200,000

                                                                         ~~~~~
                                                                                                      2,163,004 2,611,368 2,842,674

 oca1SADC GovernmentsContribution              *                        1      3,520,000]    880,0001   880,0001     880,0001    880,000

ITotal                                                                  I      13,120,0001 2,862,9541 3,043,0041 3,491,3681 3,722,674)


      * Local fundingwill come fromgovemment contributionsinthe form of stafftime and effort expendedon the projectthrough
      the attendance of SteeringCommittee Meetings,time collecting, collating andtransmittinginformation, reviewingand
      commentingondraft outputs, assistinglocalprojectactivities,provision of office space andservicesto visiting project staff,
      etc. Inadditionto the finding from govemment, a considerablecontributionwill bemade to the projectby the communities
      inthe pilot areas overthe five years ofthe project. This will be interms ofcommunityrepresentatives' engagement inthe
      governanceand guidanceof the pilot areas through local steering committees, engagement inlocalizedsite activities, assis-
      tance with monitoringanddatacapturingexercises, etc. Contributionsare assumedat alevel of US$60,000 per year per
      SADC country (assuming 12active countries) with the four countries engageddirectly inthe pilot areas (Botswana, Mozam-
      bique, South Africa andZimbabwe) contributingalarger share of US$lOO,OOO each.



                                                               --00000--




                                                                    41

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                     SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject

The period o f implementationis five years (beginning in2005). The World Bank will be the Im-
plementing Agency. SADC Water Division (previously known as SADC Water Sector Coordi-
nating Unit (SADC-WSCU)) has been the Executing Agency during the GEF PDF B project
preparation phase. Project execution, both at a regional and river-basin scale, will be undertaken
by the SADC Secretariat, throughthe Water Division, via a Project Services Agency (PSA) and a
dedicated Project Management Unit (PMU). The project will be guided by a multi-stakeholder
Project Steering Committee (PSC).

SADC Water Division
The SADC Water Division (SADC-WD) i s part o f the Directorate o f Infrastructure and Services
o f the SADC Secretariat. The Division i s based in Gaborone, Botswana and i s staffed by two
senior seconded officials from Member States plus Technical Advisors and Assistants which are
funded through a number o f cooperating partners. The SADC-WD i s implementing a Regional
Strategic Action Plan (RSAP) for Integrated Water Resources Development and Management
(1999). The Water Sector has identified 31 priority projects within the RSAP. The present pro-
posal i s designed to help implement one o f those priorities, the Regional Groundwater Manage-
ment Program in the SADC Region. This Programi s overseen by a sub-committee o f the SADC
Water Resources Technical Committee.

The role o f SADC-WD as Executing Agency for this project i s consistent with their existing role
     ..
o f implementingthe RSAP (which includes the groundwater project), including:

         Strategic planning for the further development and implementation of the RSAP (includ-
         ingprioritisation and communication)
         Institutionalcoordination o f consultation and reporting, duringthe full project lifecycle
     .
     1   Project coordinationbetween different project's outputs and activities, and the dissemina-
         tion o fthe outputs
         Monitoring and evaluation o f the RSAP

The SADC-WD is responsible to the Director of Infrastructure Services to ensure that all RSAP
projects deliver on their objectives.

The Water Divisiontakes overall responsibility for the projectmanagement (at a strategic level):

         Coordination and responsibility for project fundingand project outcomes
         Prepare a Project implementationplan
         Coordinate the Project with other water resources projects inthe region
         Facilitate and coordinate participation and contributions from participatingcountries
         Coordinate and Supervise the activities o f the PSA and PMUto:
             1. Ensure project adheres to schedule and delivers agreed outputs
             2. Ensure timely submission o fprogress reports
             3.   Certify financial reports related to the work done
         Act on recommendations from Project Steering Committee
         Reportprogress to all SADC structures
         Ensurethat SADC decisions arereflectedat the project implementation level




                                                  42

Cooperating Partners
The project i s a partnership between SADC (working through the Water Division), the govern-
ments and government departments of SADC Member States, the PMU and the stakeholders, in
particular the user communities inthe pilot areas o f the Limpopo River Basin. The project i s co-
financed directly between GEF and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
(Sida), and indirectly through contributions from the French and German governments (essential
hydrogeological mapping project) and the Member States.

The project will be carried out in close collaboration with a hydrogeological mapping program,
components o f which are funded by the French and German governments. The hydrogeological
maps will provide the base for the vulnerability mappingbeing undertaken inthis project. A rep-
resentative o f these projects will be invited to sit on the PSC to ensure maximum coordination.

Project Steering Committee
The PSC will represent the stakeholders in the project and will provide advice to the implement-
    ....
ingagency on:

          TORfor professional staffofthe Project Management Unit
          Changes to the project implementationplan
          Annual work plans and budget
          Progress with project implementation

It will also provide a direct communications channel with national institutions, NGOs, and re-
gional bodies to assist project staff inimplementingthe project. Inparticular, it will act as a con-
tact point for access to data, collected as part o f other projects (especially the hydrogeological
mapping project) or held innational institutionsor with NGOs.

The PSC will comprise 1 senior technical representative from each Member State, a representa-
tive o f SADC Environment Unit, SADC-WD and LIMCOM. Representatives from relatedminis-
tries of Member States, local government inpilot areas, a representative o f the NGO community,
Sida and other development partners may participate as Observers, plus any other persons as
agreed by the PSC. The P M U and the PSA are observers and serve the committee. The PSC
Chairperson will be elected by a majority o f the PSC and will meet at least once a year.

Independent Review Panel
An Independent Review Panel will be established at the commencement o f the project. The ob-
jective o f the Panel will be to provide an external resource to the project to review the technical
and scientific plans, technology use, hydrogeology, GDEs, social and economic impact, etc. The
Panel will be `dynamic' inthat experts will be invited to join as and when the topic under review
requires their input, however a core group will be established to provide continuity and to reduce
the transaction costs o f procuring their services as short-term consultants. Panel members will be
international and regional experts in relevant fields. The Panel will not be engaged in project
management issues but will provide guidance to the Project Steering Committee, the SADC WD
and the PMU, and will act also as resource to the World Bank Task Team Leader. The Panel will
be resourced from the Sida Bank executed Trust Fundand not the GEF funds.

Project Services Agency
The day-to-day administrative activities on the project would be carried out by an external, con-
tracted Project Services Agency (PSA) that i s experienced in project administration. The objec-
tive i s to provide general administration, financial management, and procurement services to sup-


                                                    43

port the SADC Secretariat inthe effective execution and coordination o f the project, as these ac-
tivities are beyond the capacity and function o f the Secretariat as presently constituted. This was
agreed to by the SADC Secretariat at a meeting between the SADC Secretariat and the World
Bank inGaborone, Botswana on October 7,2003. The Project Services Agency (PSA) will oper-
ate under the authority o f the SADC Secretariat and report on a day-to-day basis to the SADC-
WD.

The PSA's responsibilities will include administration, financial management and procurement
functions. This assignment will involve supporting operations at multiple geographic and organi-
zation levels. The PSA will support the SADC Secretariat and the PMUincarrying out all activi-
ties required to ensure that the fiduciary requirements and procedures o f the World Bank are met.
This will include the activities listed below and in Annex 7: Financial Management and Dis-
bursementArrangements andAnnex 8: Procurement.

General administration and implementation support activities will include:
      ..  Establishment o f the PMU
          Preparation o f project implementation manual(s) (PIM), including, inter alia, administra-
      ... tion, financial management, procurement and staffing procedures; and customization o f
          SADC manual(s) to PMUproject-specific needs, all to be approved by the World Bank
          Preparation o f administratioddisbursementlprocurementplans for the project based on
          the work plan o f the PMU
          Recruitment and hiring o f staff o f the PMU, based on a competitive selection process in
          conjunction with the SADC Water Divisionas agreed inproject documents
          Ensure effective mechanisms for electronic communication and management o f informa-
          tion are inplace, including the establishment o f guidelines for information management

The PSA would have expertise in general project administration and management, financial man-
agement, legal matters pertaining to contracts and procurement, selection and use of consultants,
procurement o f contractors and goods, and information technology. The PSA should ideally have
experience inthe SADC countries and with development projects. The PSA will propose the or-
ganization o f the team (including geographic distribution o f the staff) to best achieve the objec-
tives o f the assignment.

ProjectManagementUnit(PMU)
The PMU will be established in Gaborone at a suitable venue separate from the offices o f the
SADC Water Division and will report to the SADC-WD. The PMUwill be responsible for tech-
nical implementation o f the project at a day-to-day level to ensure that the project objectives and
      ..
outputs are achieved. Its functions will include:

          Prepare, implement and manage the project work plan

      ....Liaise with project stakeholders and coordinate project with other regional projects and
          initiates, state agencies, NGOs private sector and other parties in order to facilitate im-
          plementationo fproject components
          Carry out project advocacy and project awareness creation roles and responsibilities
          Assist the PSA with the tender process for the provision o f services and procurement o f
          equipment under the individual sub-projects
          Assist the PSA inthe management o f contracts for the providers of services
          Assist the PSA inthe management o f procurement o fmaterials and equipment




                                                   44

    .   Monitor progress and report to the Project Steering Committee and the SADC Water Di-
    ....vision on the progress o f the project according to monitoring criteria established in work
        plan
        Provide coordination between project components to ensure achievement o f overall pro-
        ject objectives
        Providing documentation to PSC and responding to recommendations o f PSC, through
        SADC-WD
        Coordinate project activities with other relevant projects, under guidance of SADC-WD
        Promote project outcomes to ensure sustainability

The PMU will be small - 2 professional staff and 3 support staff - in order to ensure minimum
costs to the project whilst ensuring greatest efficiency. It will be headed by a Project Manager
and will be assisted by a Technical Executive Officer. Expectedduties o f the two senior staff are:
    .   Project Manager:
        ------ Overall technical management o f the project and the PMU,
               Liaison and reporting to SADC-WD and PSC,
               Liaison with the PSA,
               Management and oversight o f consultants,
    .          Liaison with member countries, other projects and organizations,
               Promoting the results o f the project throughout the region.
        -TechnicalExecutive
        -                       Ofleer:
               Support the Project Manager
               Provision o f technical expertise relating to hydrogeology and ecology.

If the Technical Executive Officer does not possess sufficient expertise to oversee the work of
consultants in the fields o f hydrogeology, surface hydrology and wetland ecology then specialist
consulting knowledge will be brought in on an `as needed' basis. The senior staff would be sup-
portedby a secretary, administrative assistant and a driver.

PMU staff will be recruited and appointed by the PSA in collaboration with the SADC-WD.
They will be recruited as follows:
    .   The Project Manager will be recruited competitively, with preference given to candidates
        from SADC member counties other than the country hosting the PMU. The position
    .   will be advertised innational, regional and internationalpress, seekingbalance among the
        countries represented for the entire project.
        The Technical Executive Officer will be recruited competitively, with preference given to
        candidates from SADC member counties, following advertisement in national, regional
        and internationalpress.

    0   Support staff will be competitively recruited from the PMU host country or region-
        allyhnternationally depending on local market response.




                                                    45

               Figure2: The proposedinstitutionalstructure.



SADC Integrated Committee of Ministers
       t
Water Resources-+
Tech Committee                               r - - - - - m - -
                                             I Independent           I
                                        ---*I    Review Panel II
                                             - - - - - - - - d
 Project Steer-
   ing Com.            (Water Division)

    Country
     Reps.                                rind               agement Institute of
 River Basins,                                      V          Southern Africa
 Stakeholders
                                                             (New organization es-
                                                              tablished by project)


                      I  Consultants   I




                                     46

            Annex 7: FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements
                    SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagement Project

1. SummaryoftheFinancialManagementAssessment

   A. GENERAL

   Objectiveof the FMSystem

   1. The objective o f the Financial Management Systems (FMS) is to support the implement-
   ing units in deploying Project resources to produce the required outputs and with attention to
   economy, efficiency and effectiveness. Specifically, the FM systems will be capable o f pro-
   ducing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable the
   implementing units to plan, coordinate, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress
   towards the achievement o f its objectives as well as ensuring that costs are under control and
   Project funds are used for the purposes intended.

   ImplementingAgencies

   2. The SADC Water Division (SADC-WD), which i s located within the Directorate o f In-
   frastructure & Services o f SADC Secretariat, has overall responsibility for implementing the
   Project. Project implementation will be guided by a multi-stakeholder Project Steering com-
   mittee (PSC). At the technical level, the SADC-WD will also guided by the Water Resources
   Technical Committee (WRTC). With respect to day-to-day project implementation, SADC-
   WD will work through: (a) a Project Management Unit (PMU) for technical implementation,
   and (b) a Project Services Agency (PSA) to be constituted by UNOPS for financial manage-
   ment, administrationand procurement.

   3. The PSA will report to the SADC Secretariat through the SADC-WD. It will help SADC
   Secretariat, i.e. the project implementing agency, to meet all Bank financial management re-
   quirements. UNOPS will provide adequate financial management staff and systems to ensure
   to ensure compliance with Bank financial management requirements, including forwarding
   the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports and audited annual financial statements to the
   Bank. The staff will include qualified accountants and an internal auditor. The internal audi-
   tor will carry out a systematic review, evaluation and appraisal o f the adequacy o f the sys-
   tems o f managerial, financial, operational and budgetary control and their reliability inprac-
   tice, andreport to SADC-WD, SADC Secretariat, UNOPS and PSA regularly.


   B. RISKANALYSIS

   InherentRisks

   4. The project implementing agency, SADC Secretariat, does not currently have adequate
   capacity, including financial management, to implement the project, and can therefore not en-
   sure necessary compliance with all Bank financial management requirements.

   5. To minimize the aforementioned risks and ensure the appropriate financial management
   capacity i s in place prior to Project effectiveness, UNOPS has been contracted as the PSA
   and it will be responsible for the financial management aspect o f the project. Also, the pro-



                                                 47

ject i s expected to set up GIMSA, which will have a small unit to ultimately take over,
amongst other functions, the financial management.

ControlRisks

6. The overall Project risk from a financial management perspective i s considered moderate,
provided the financial management action plan described in paragraph 36 i s hlly imple-
mented.

Strength andWeakness

7. Strength: UNOPS has previous experience in implementing Bank-Assisted Projects and
has handled the financial management functions for some o f these projects. Therefore, it i s
familiar with Bank Financial Managementprocedures and requirements.

 8. Weakness: The PSA to be constituted by UNOPS i s responsible for financial manage-
ment, procurement and administrative functions on behalf SADC-WD. Without adequate
 staffing and proper segregation o f duties, there i s a danger that some staff may perform in-
 compatible functions resultinginpoor overall internal control.

 C. FINANCIALMANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

 FundsFlow andBankingArrangements

 9.    The overall project funding will be provided by GEF, SADC Governments and bilateral
 donors. The Bank will disburse the GEF grant through a Deposit Account. SADC-WD will
 open the followingbank accounts, which will be managedby the PSA on its behalf

        i. ADepositAccountinUSDollarswithacommercialbanktowhichtheinitial
              deposit and replenishments from GEF will be lodged.
        ii. A Current(Project) Accountwithacommercialbankto, inter alia,facilitate
              payments inlocal currencies inthe SADC region.

 10. Also, the PSA will maintain a GEF Ledger Grant Account (Washington) in U S Dol-
 lars/SDR to keep track o f draw downs fi-om the GEF grant. The account will show (a) depos-
 its made into bank X by the Bank, (b) direct payments by the Bank, and (c) opening and clos-
 ingbalances.

 11. All bank accounts will be reconciled with bank Statements on a monthly basis by the
 PSA. The bank reconciliation statements will be reviewed by designated SADC-WD offi-
 cials, and identified differences will be expeditiously investigated.

 12. The PSA will be responsible for preparing and submittingto the World Bank consoli-
 dated applications for withdrawal, as appropriate. Appropriate procedures and controls will
 be instituted and documented in the Project Implementation Manual (PKM), which will be
 used by the PSA for project implementation, to ensure disbursements and flow o f funds are
 carried out inan efficient and effective manner.

 13. The PSA will maintain a cumulative record o f draw-downs from the GEF grant that will
 be reconciledmonthly with the Disbursement Summary providedby the Bank.



                                              48

   14. Detailed banking arrangements, including control procedures over all bank transactions
   (e.g. cheque signatories, transfers, etc.), will be documented inthe PIM.




                                                    Amount inUS$      YOof Expenditures
    ExpenditureCategories                               millions        to beFinanced
    Consultants' Services                                2.40                100%
    Works                                                 1.61               100%
    uovus
    f-l- - >-                                            V.03
                                                         A / L )             100%
    Operating costs                                      n176
                                                           .oo               100%
    -
    TrnininD Rr Wnrkchnnc                                                    100%
    Unaiiocair                                              OV




DisbursementArrangements

Use of ReportsBasedDisbursements

   16. PSA shall submit payment requests to the Bank, copied to the SADC-WD, based on Fi-
   nancial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Documentation supporting all expenditures claimed
   against FMRs will be retained by the PSA, and will be available for review when requested
   by the Bank supervision missions and project internal and external auditors. All disburse-
   ments are subject to the conditions of the GEF Grant Agreement and the procedures defined
   inthe Disbursement Letter.

DepositAccount

   17. The authorized allocation o f the deposit account would be US$1 million. To the extent
   possible, all o f GEF's share o f expenditures should be paidthrough the Deposit Account.

   18. The Deposit Account will be replenished through the submission o f Withdrawal Appli-
   cations supported with quarterly FMRs and copies o f relevant bank statements. The with-
   drawal application shall include an amount required to finance Eligible Expenditures during
   the six-month period following end o f the quarter for which the FMR was prepared. All dis-
   bursements will be channeled through Deposit Account, and inlieu o f such Deposit Account,
   SADC may choose to pre-finance project expenditure and seek reimbursement from GEF.

   19. Detailed disbursement procedures will be documented inthe PIM.

PlanningandBudgeting

   20. Cash Budget preparation will follow the procedures outlined inthe PIM. Additionally,
   financial projections or forecasts for the life o f the project (analyzed by year) will be pre-
   pared. On an annual basis, the PSA will prepare the cash budget for the coming period based
   on the work program. The cash budget should include the figures for the year, analyzed by
   quarter. The cash budget for each quarter will reflect the detailed specifications for project ac-
   tivities, schedules (including procurement plan), and expenditure on project activities sched-
   uled respectively for the quarter. (Guidance on the preparation o f budgets i s available in the
   Bank publication entitled "Financial Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Borrowers".) The an-


                                                  49

   nual cash budget will be sent to the TTL at least two months before the beginning o f the pro-
   ject fiscal year.

   21. Detailed procedures for planning andbudgetingwill be documented inthe PIM.

Fixed Assets and Contracts Registers

   22. The PSA will prepare and regularly update a FixedAssets Register. A Contracts Regis-
   ter will also be maintainedinrespect o f all contracts with consultants and suppliers. The PSA
   will prepare Contract Status Reports quarterly. Control procedures over fixed assets and con-
   tracts with consultants and suppliers/vendors will be documented inthe PIM.

Information Systems

   23. The PSA will establish and maintain adequate computerized system for tracking, re-
   cording, classifying and reporting the project transactions.

FinancialReporting and Monitoring

   24. Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared (as outlined in paragraphs 29,
   30, 31 and 32) for the purpose o f monitoring project implementation. The reports will be
    submitted to the project coordinators, project implementing units, SADC Secretariat and the
   Bank, Detailed reporting procedures and the format, contents and frequency o f reports will
   be fully documented inthe PIM.

    25. Monthly: On a monthly basis, the PSA will prepare and submit the following reports to
          ...
    SADC-WD and SADC Secretariat:

               A Bank Reconciliation Statement for eachbank account;
               Monthly Statement of cashposition for project funds from all sources, taking into
               consideration significant reconcilingitems;
               A monthly Statement of expenditure classified byproject components, disbursement
               categories, and comparison with budgets, or a variance analysis; and
               Statement of Sources and Uses of funds (by GEF Category/ Activity showing
               GEF);
    26. Quarterly: The following financial monitoring reports will be prepared by the PSA on a
          .
    quarterly basis and submitted to SADC Secretariat, SADC-WD and the Bank:

               Financial Reports which include a Statement showing for the period and cumula-
               tively (project life or year to date) inflows by sources and outflows by main expen-
               diture classifications; beginning and ending cash balances o f the project; and sup-
          ..   porting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. The reports will also
               include cash forecast for the next two quarters.
               Physical Progress Reports which include narrative information and output indica-
               tors (agreed duringproject preparation) linking financial information with physical
               progress, and highlight issues that require attention.
               Procurement Reports, which provide information on the procurement o f goods,
               work, and related services, and the selection o f consultants, and on compliance
               with agreed procurementmethods. The reports will compare procurement perform-




                                                   50

           .    ante against the plan agreed at negotiations or subsequently updated, and highlight
                key procurement issues such as staffing and buildingBorrower capacity.
                FMR Withdrawal Schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
                disbursements by the reports-based method, by reference number, date and amount.

           ...
    27. Annually: The annual project financial Statements, which will be prepared by the PSA
    will include the following:
                A Statement of Sources andUses o f funds (by GEFCategory/ Activity);
                Statement o f CashPosition for Project Funds from all sources;
                Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank accounts (including GEF
           .    Deposit Account) to the bank balances shown on the Statement o f Sources and
                Uses o f funds;
                FMR Withdrawal Schedules listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
                disbursements by the reports-based Method, by reference number, date and
                amount;
                Notes to the Financial Statements.

    28. Indicative formats for the reports are outlined in two Bank publications: (a) Financial

    Reporting and AuditingHandbook (FARAH) - monthly and annual reports. The actual format
    Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Borrowers-quarterly FMRs, and (b) FinancialAccounting,

    will be fully documented inthe PIM.

 AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

    29. GEF will be accounted for by the Project on a cash basis. This will be augmented with
    appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets. Also, ac-
    counting records will be maintainedin $.

    30. The Chart o f Accounts will facilitate the preparation o f relevant monthly, quarterly and
    annual financial Statements, including information on the following:
              .
              ..  Total project expenditures;
                  Total financial contribution from each financier;
                  Total expenditure on each project component/activity; and
                  Analysis o f that total expenditure into civil works, various categories o f goods,
                  training, consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories.

    3 1. Annual financial Statements will be prepared in accordance with International Account-
    ing Standards (IASs). All accounting and control procedures will be documented inthe FPM,
    a living document that will be regularly updatedby the Project Accountants.

 D.ACTION PLAN

    32. The following actions are to be implemented as specified:

S/N                                                                                            1 By When
   1 Prepare the Project ImplementationManual (PIM)
    IIACTION                                                    I
                                                                I By Whom
                                                                  SADCSecretariat/ UNOPS        IEffectiveness
   2 Install a computerized financial management system           SADC SecretariatiUNOPS         Effectiveness

   3  Open US Dollar Deposit Account; Project Account and         SADC Secretariat/ UNOPS        Effectiveness
      advice the Bank o f authorized bank signatories/specimen

S/N  ACTION                                                    By Whom                         By When
   4 Deploy qualified accountants and internal auditor to the  SADC Secretariat/ UNOPS         Effectiveness
     PSA
   5 Initial capacity building in Bank procedures and computer SADC Secretariat/ UNOPS         Effectiveness
     applications completed.
   6 Appoint qualified independent external auditors           mops                            Effectiveness

    SupervisionPlan

    33. Supervision activities will include review o f quarterly FMRs; review o f annual audited
    financial statements and management letter as well as timely follow-up o f issues arising; an-
    nual review; participation in project supervision missions as appropriate; and updating the
    FMratinginthe ProjectStatus Report(PSR).

 2. Audit Arrangements

    InternalAudit

    34. The Internal Auditor in the PSA will perform internal audit activities for the project.
    Regular internal audit reports will be submitted to the UNOPS, PSA, SADC-WD and SADC
    Secretariat.

    ExternalAudit

    35. The Project's financial statements will be audited in accordance with internationally rec-
    ognized auditing standards by independent auditors. The audit reports and financial reports
    will be submitted to the Bank within6 months o f the end o fthe fiscal year. Inaddition to an
    opinion on the financial statements expressed in their succinct report, the auditors will be
    asked to review in depth all expenditures and internal controls procedures used for their
    preparation duringthe period under review, in order to express a separate opinion on them. In
    addition to the audit report, the external auditors will be expected to prepare Management
    Letters giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improve-
    ments in accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in
    the GEF Grant agreement.

    36. It i s the responsibility o f UNOPS to appoint independent auditors which are acceptable to
    the Bank. UNOPS i s also responsible for: (i)   having the Project's financial statements audited
    annually, and (ii)   submittingto the Bank and SADC Secretariat the audited statements to-
    gether with management letters.

 3. ProcurementArrangements

    37. For GEF Funds, the project will observe procurement procedures outlined in the Guide-
    lines: `Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits and Guidelines for the Use o f consultants
    byWorldBankBorrowers andbythe World Bank as ExecutingAgency.'




                                                   52

                                       Annex 8: Procurement
                     SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and "Guide-
lines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004,
and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description o f various items
under different expenditure category i s below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank project team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually, or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and to reflect im-
provements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project, would include: Some contracts for
borehole drilling, Pans, alluvial sand storage curtains etc whose scope and content will depend
upon the designs emanating from the Pilot project work at the beginning o f the project. The pro-
curement will be done using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all ICB and
NCB, to be agreed with the Bank. Some works o f small value will be procured by requesting for
price quotations from at least three qualified contractors. The request should clearly indicate the
description o f the works, the completion period and the modalities o f payment. The bidder with
the lowest evaluated quotation will be awarded the contract.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procuredunder thisproject would include: one vehicle and some
office equipment. The procurement will be done usingNational Competitive Biddingsatisfactory
to the Bank. Some items will be procuredthrough Shopping.

Procurementof non-consultingservices: There isnorequirement for non-consultingservices.

Selectionof Consultants: Consultants will berequired for different assignments linkedto design
o f the Pilot system, implementing activities and regional decision support activities. Consultants
will also be required for construction supervision. Consultants will design the works require-
ments emanating from the Pilot phase activities. Some part time advisors will be hired to support
specific components and tasks. A consultant will be appointed as a Project Services Agency to
manage the project.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than !$ 100,000 equivalent per contract
may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Consulting services may be provided by Universities, Govern-
ment Research institutions, Training Institutions, NGOs and any special organizations. Although
QCBS procedure has been followed, it did not give the expected results interms o f participation
as well as of suitability and qualification o f the candidates. Ultimately, UNOPS ha been awarded
the Project Services Agency contract on a single source selection (SSS) basis. There i s a need for
an experienced provider o f procurement, financial and management services and TJNOPS has ex-
perience o f exceptional worth for the assignment. In addition, the PSA will need to build these
same capacities inthe Groundwater Drought Management Institute to be established. UNOPS as
a provider has available regional UN logistics and support facilities nearby in South Africa. It
also has ability to assume liability on behalf o f SADC (signatures o f contracts with individual



                                                   53

experts and consulting firms, handling o f claims). The Agreement between SADC and UNOPS
will be communicatedto the Bank for non-objection

OperationalCosts: Operational costs which would be financed by the project and procured us-
ing the implementing agency's administrative procedures as determined in the Project Services
Agency's Management Services Agreement and Project Implementation Manual which will be
reviewed for compliance with the Bank's requirements. This will include the initial operational
costs o f the Groundwater Management Institute o f Southern African which will be established
duringthe course o fthe project.

Others: There are no special arrangements such as scholarships, Grants etc.

B.       Assessmentofthe agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carriedout by UNOPS, acting as the Project Services Agency. The
agency will provide a complete team to undertake project management services including for
procurement. The Procurement unit o f this PSA will be staffed by appropriate, trained staff in
terms o f the Management Services Agreement (MSA) to be entered into betweenUNOPS and the
SADC Secretariat and approved by the Bank. UNOPS will prepare a Project Implementation
Manual which will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the SBDs (including Re-
quest for Quotation, RFQ, forms) to be used for each procurement method, as well as model con-
tracts for works and goods procured.

An assessment of the capacity ofthe ImplementingAgency to implement procurement actions for
the project does not need to be carried out as these activities will be undertaken by the Project
Services Agency to be appointed as a condition o f effectiveness. The M S A will include a suit-
able organization and staffing plan. The risk i s that the staff actually deputed may not be ade-
quately experienced in Bank procurement work. Special attention will be paid when reviewing
organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's
staff responsible for procurement and the SADC Secretariat unit responsible for administration
and finance.

Most o f the issues/ risks concerning the procurement component for implementation o f the pro-
ject have been identified and include weak capacity and scarcity o f experienced staff. The correc-
tive measures, which have been agreed, are part o f the M S A which will include that the PSA will
provide technical assistance to buildcapacity and train staff to be deputed by SADCC

The overall project risk for procurement i s HIGH.

C.       ProcurementPlan

The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation, which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Recipient
and the Project Team on January 14, 2005 and i s available at the SADC Secretariat Water Divi-
sion, Private Bag 0095, Gaborone, Botswana. It will also be available in the Project's database
and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and im-
provements ininstitutional capacity.




                                               54

      D. Frequency ofProcurementSupervision

       Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity as-
       sessment o f the Implementing Agency would require six monthly supervision missions to visit
       the field to carry out postreview o fprocurement actions.

       Attachment 1

       Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementinvolvinginternationalcompetition.




1            2             3              4          5          6               7              8         9

Ref.    Contract       Estimated    Procurement    P-Q      Domestic        Review          Expected  Comments
No.   (Description)       Cost        Method                Preference      by Bank           Bid-
                                                             (yesho)     (Prior / Post)     Opening
                                                                                              Date

    II               I            I              I        I            I                 I           I
      There are no ICB or DirectContracts expected inthisproject

               (b)However, ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$150,000 per contract and all
               Direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

           2. Consulting Services.

                    (a) List o f Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms.




      9     RegionalAwareness Creation consultants 103,250     QCBS      Prior        Month24
      12    EventsManagementConsultant - Retainer 100,800      QCBS      Prior        Month 1


       *from Annex A of the Procurement Plan




                                                        55

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 per contract and Single
Source selection o f consultants (firms) for assignments estimated to cost above $50,000
will be subject to prior review bythe Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for
services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed
entirely of national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.



                                     --00000--




                                         56

                           Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                     SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject

The Incremental Cost Analysis provides the economic analysis o f the project as a GEF supported
program. The project i s o fbenefit as a `complimentaryhpplementary'contribution to the devel-
opment o f knowledge of the management and protection o f groundwater and GDEs in trans-
boundary drought prone areas, complementary to existing efforts inthe region.

The economic value o f groundwater and GDEs in the SADC region has generally not been de-
termined. That these resources play a vital role in local economies (and collectively in national
economies) i s unquestioned as inmany semi-arid rural areas inthe region groundwater i s the only
dependable source o f water without which there would be no economic activity at all, even o f a
subsistence nature. One o f the main outputs o f this project i s therefore precisely to contribute to
the regional and global knowledge o f the value o fthese resources.

The activities in the pilot areas will be carehlly analyzed to determine the most cost effective
means o f improving the management o f resources and the security o f services during drought
events. The analysis will need to include offsetting the costs o f management and physical inter-
ventions against the cost o f failure o f supply during drought and the destruction o f GDEs and
their ecological and economic benefits. Failure has a range o f human, social and economic costs
at local and national levels including food insecurity, rural-urban migration, environmental deg-
radation and increased long-term risk aversion to investment at local level resulting inthe persis-
tence o fruralpoverty.

The primary financial concern within the project i s sustainability o f the Groundwater Manage-
ment Institute for Southern Afnca (GMISA). This will be addressed as a major concern in the
establishment o f the Institute during the project. The issue o f financial sustainability o f the Insti-
tute i s more fully addressed in Section 4 above - "Sustainability and Replicability".

Financial management o f the project has been an issue o f concern related to the capacity o f the
SADC Secretariat to undertake the administrative, financial management and procurement re-
quirements o f a project o f this size. The capacity o f the Secretariat to undertake these activities in
relation to the project preparation phase (through the PDF-B Grant) was appraised by a World
Bank Financial Management Specialist to be adequate for the preparation phase but not for the
execution phase. This conclusion i s supported by the SADC Secretariat on the basis that their
function i s not to execute projects but to coordinate and facilitate regional development issues.
To ensure adequate financial management o f the project, a Project Services Agency (PSA) will be
contracted through the project to undertake these activities on behalf o f the SADC Secretariat.
The details o f the functions o f the PSA are provided inTechnical Annex 6 - Implementation Ar-
rangements.



                                              --00000--




                                                  57

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                    SADC: Groundwater& DroughtManagementProject

The project has pilot scale interventions intwo pilot areas inthe Limpopo River Basin, which are
designed to test the application and replicability o f methods o f decreasing the vulnerability o f
local communities and GDEs to the effects o f groundwater droughts. Project activities will not
result inany appreciable negative environmental or social impacts. The small scale o f the project
activities and the nature o f those activities (groundwater monitoring and pilot interventions for
improving groundwater management) make it unlikely that resettlement or environmental damage
will occur during implementation.        Through improved understanding and management o f
groundwater dependent ecosystems (GDEs), the project i s expected to improve environmental
conditions in pilot areas, and contribute knowledge to management o f GDEs throughout the re-
gion.

The following safeguardpolicies are triggered:

 International Watenuavs: The pilot areas are in an international water course - the Limpopo
River Basin. Requirements o f notification have been met through two ways: (i)        the four coun-
tries involved inthe Limpopo pilot areas (Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa, and Zimbabwe)
have been represented in the Project Preparation Steering Committee, which has been the body
responsible for over-seeing the preparation of the project and final approval o f the selection o f the
pilot areas; and (ii)each o f the four riparian countries noted above have sent project Letters o f
Endorsement, which fulfills GEF requirements. These are on file and attached to the Project
Documents.

The following safeguard policies are not triggered:

Environmental Assessment: The primary objective o f the project i s to improve the sustainability
o f natural resources through the use o f a groundwater-dependent ecosystem approach. Project
design focuses on the implementation o f specific components, which as a whole, are designed to
improve long-term water resource sustainability specific to groundwater. The array o f potential
project activities, such as physical infrastructure (monitoring boreholes, extraction boreholes,
pans, alluvial sand storage curtains, etc); non-structural measures such as improved government
capacity, strengthening of groundwater user groups, heightened community awareness; and water
conservation techniques, such as conjunctive use o f surface and groundwater, and improvements,
will be confirmed during initial phases of the project.      Although some o f the activities cited
above may require further assessment, it i s expected that few activities will have an environ-
mental impact. A Strategic Environmental Assessment to be prepared and disclosed duringinitial
phases o f implementation will confirm the impact once specific pilot activities and sites are
known.

Natural Habitats: The Limpopo River Basin Situation Analysis identified a number o f ground-
water-dependent ecosystems in the region, including the riparian areas of the proposed Limpopo-
Shaste Transfrontier Conservation Area and the Greater Limpopo ConversationArea inthe west-
em and eastern pilot areas, respectively. Pilot activities will not be implemented within protected
areas, although interventions are intended to assistant local communities during times o f drought
and thus reduce pressure on these ecosystems.




                                                  58

Forestry: Although the Limpopo River Basin includes a number o f protected forest areas, they
are not within or adjacent to specified pilot areas. It i s unlikely that any project activities will
have any significant effect on forest ecosystems.

Pest Management: The project will not finance or support the procurement or use o f pesticides
directly or indirectly.

Cultural Proz7erty: The project will not include areas o f significant cultural value.

Indigenous People: The project will be implementedwith local communities but will not impact
any indigenous peoples.

Involuntary Resettlement: The involuntary resettlement policy i s not triggered because project
activities are unlikely to result in significant alteration o f land or changes inaccess for both com-
munal and private land. Alteration or change in access i s expected to be voluntary and any such
changes will be small, with accordingly some potential for impacts. It i s expected that project
activities would result in minimal loss o f income or livelihood for community members. Any
interventions involving alteration o f land or water resource practices will be taken by individuals
to improve both environmental and economic sustainability. Likewise, community interventions
are not anticipated to create circumstances leadingto involuntary resettlement.

Safetv ofDams: The project does not involve any dams or construction of dams.

Projects in Disputed Areas: The project area does not include any disputed areas.



                                               --00000--




                                                    59

                             Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                       SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementinSADC

    The key institution responsible for preparation o f the project was the SADC Secretariat through
    the Water Division, supervised and assistedby the World Bankprojectream.

    Preparation timing:

             PDF-B Grant Letter o f Agreement            June 28,200 1,
             PCD Review Meeting                                  28,2002,
             PDF-B Grant completion date             --- February
                                                         extended from 12131/02 to 10/30/04

    A GEF PDF-B grant for $350,000 and the French government ($25,000), was used for project
    preparationby the recipientto contract services for the following preparation activities:

             a) specialist groundwater advisor insupport o f SADC WSCU (now SADC-WD);
             b) aregional situation analysis for SADC region;
             c) a Limpopo basin situation analysis;
             d) support for aprojectpreparation steering committee;
             e) support for a stakeholder workshop to gather views from affected stakeholders;
             fJ support for meetings o f the hydrogeologicalmap steering committee;
             g) support for a Project Management Consultant to assist.

    The grant was successfully carried out by the Implementing Agency. All planned outputs were
    completed and consultant performance was satisfactory. The client completed the PIP to the ex-
    tended schedule and provided the information on which this PAD i s based. Inaddition, support
    was received from GWMATE for specialist groundwater advice and from Sida for specialist wa-
    ter resources advice to the Bank TM.

    Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                     Title                            Unit        Responsibility
David Grey               Sr. Water Advisor                AFTU1       Overall advice and guidance
LenAbrams                Sr. Water Resources Sp.          AFTU1       Task Manager
Jakob Granit             Water Resources Sp.              AFTU1       PreviousTask Manager
Senai Alemu              Sr. Water Resources Sp.          AFTU1       Initial Task Manager
EdithMwenda              Sr. Counsel                      LEGAF       Legal issues
Edward Olowo-Okere       Sr. Financial Mgmt Sp.           AFTFM       FinancialManagement
SlahBen-Halima           Sr. Procurement Sp.              AFTPC       Procurement
Steve Gaginis            Financial Officer                LOAG2       Disbursement
Kristine Ivarsdottar     Sr. Social Development Sp.       AFTS1        Social Development
Robert Robelus           Sr. Environ. Assessment Sp.      AFTS1        EnvironmentalAssessment
Serigne Omar Fye         Sr. Environmental Sp.            AFTS1        Safeguards Advisor
Christophe Crepin        ProgramManager                   AFTS4        GEF RegionalCoordination
Ato Brown                Sr. Water and Sanitary Eng       AFTU1        Project Management, Institutions
Richard Cambridge        Operations Advisor               AFTQK        Quality Assurance
Richard Davis            Consultant                                    Water resources and environment
Tracy Hart               Sr. Economist                    AFTU2        Technical Advice
Devendra Bajgain         Operations Analyst               AFTU1        Operations Advice
Belinda L.Asaam          Program Assistant                AFTU1        Team support, document processing




                                                    60

                          Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                   SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject



World Bank Lending Preparation Documents

            1. Minutes PCDreview meeting
           2. Integrated SafeguardData Sheet
           3. Project Information Document
           4. Project Appraisal Document

GEFDocuments

           5. PDF (B) Grant Application
           6. Project Executive Summary
           7. Project Brief
           8. Set of key SADC Government Endorsement Letters
           9. GEF STAP Review
            10. IncrementalCost Analysis

Proiect Preparation Documents

            11. Project Steering Committee Minutes
            12. Report on Pilot Area Stakeholder Meeting
            13, SADC Region Situational Analysis
            14. Groundwater SituationAnalysis inthe Limpopo River Basin
            15, Limpopo Basin Social Assessment



                                          --00000--




                                              61

   Annex 13: Statement ofLoansand Credits
SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject



             NOT APLICABLE




                     62

        Annex 14: Country at a Glance
SADC: Groundwater& DroughtManagement Project


             NOT AF'LICABLE




                     63

                               Annex 15: Incremental Cost Analysis
                     SADC: Groundwater & Drought ManagementProject

Context

Countries in the region face natural constraints such as a high degree o f spatial and temporal
variability inthe rainfall, and imposed constraints including a lack o f basic data and knowledge,
fragmented responsibility for management o f water resources, lack o f community involvement in
management, outmoded policies, laws and regulations, and inadequate enforcement o f existing
regulations. These constraints are particularly apparent in the case o f groundwater resources.
Overarching these national issues i s the regional issue o f a lack o f an effective mechanism to
manage the numerous transboundary watersheds, both surface and groundwater, inthe region.

Information presently available estimates that 33% o f the populations o f the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) region rely on formal or improved groundwater supplies and
27% on reticulated supplies from surface water sources. The remaining 40% rely on unimproved
sources, which may be either groundwater or surface water, and which are generally unsafe and
more often prone to drought. This clearly demonstrates the importance o f groundwater as a re-
source.

Accordingly, the development o f countries in the region i s highly dependent on adequate and re-
liable water resources. The region's water resources influence all aspects o f the region's social
and economic development. Apart from domestic water supply and sanitation, it i s essential for
agriculture, pastoralism, hydro-power generation, mining, tourism and industry. About one third
o f the people in the region live in drought prone areas, where groundwater i s the primary source
o f drinkingwater for the human population and livestock, and most other activities. Groundwater
i s also the prime source o fwater for many ecosystems and their wildlife inthese dryland areas.

Groundwater resources inarid areas are under threat from over-exploitation, pollution, trampling,
sedimentation and introduction o f exotic species. These threats arise primarily because o f pov-
erty linked to an increase in population pressure, as well as from irrigated agriculture, tourism,
miningandpollution from humanwaste and agricultural chemicals. The threat to the groundwa-
ter resources o f these vulnerable areas also constitutes a major threat to the related groundwater
dependant eco-systems (GDEs) in drought prone areas o f the region. Currently there i s very lim-
ited groundwater management in the countries o f the region with inadequate resources dedicated
to the task and a general lack o f effective institutions and technical capacity. The impacts o f ex-
ploitation o f groundwater on GDEs are largely unknown, as i s the resulting social and economic
impact o f the degrading of GDEs on the communities in the affected areas, especially the very
poor. These problems are compounded by the cyclical nature and variability o f climatic condi-
tions in the southern Afncan region. The implementation period o f the project may or may not
coincide with a drought event which requires that the outlook o f the project must be one o f assist-
ing the region and SADC Member States to develop and maintain a long term perspective of
groundwater drought management and the protection o f GDEs

Related Developmentand Environmental Goals and Strategies

The overall objective o f the Groundwater Management Programme (GMP) i s to promote the sus-
tainable development o f groundwater resources at a regional level, incorporating research, as-
sessment, exploitation and protection, particularly related to drought management. Consequently
the Project Objective is: "The developmentof a SADC regional strategic approachto support



                                                  64

and enhance the capacity of its member States in the definition of drought management
policies, specifically in relationto the role, availability (magnitude and recharge) and supply
potential of groundwater resources".

The project concept i s to meet the above objective and to produce the major output through im-
plementation o f activities at two different scales: the regional and the river basin levels (withthe
latter including studies at the level o f the pilot area, as described below).

   a.   The regional scale o f the project will identify transboundary impacts o f groundwater de-
        velopment in the various river basins within the region, identify priority groundwater
        drought prone areas and provide regional management tools (such as groundwater drought
        vulnerability maps, a monitoring network and a groundwater information system to sup-
        port the mapping tool). The tools developed will be applied through the SADC institu-
        tional network, which i s financed by the Member States and through the development o f a
        Regional Groundwater Drought Management Institution (RGDMI).

   b. At the river-basin scale (i.e. the semi-arid Limpopo river basin) the role of groundwater in
        proactive drought mitigation will be demonstrated inthe semi-arid Limpopo river basin on
        a conceptual scale and at the field-scale in a pilot sub-catchment simultaneously taking
        into account applicability and replicability for the region as a whole. The outputs will con-
        sist o f physical infrastructure interventions (monitoring, bores, pans, sand dams, etc), and
        institution and social interventions such as improved government capacity, formation o f
        groundwater user groups, and heightened awareness o f the need to manage groundwater
        and dependent ecosystems on a long-termbasis.

Consequently the project will address the need for the SADC Member States to develop coopera-
tively a strategic regional approach to support and enhance the capacity o f its member States in
the definition o f drought management policies, specifically in relation to the role, availability
(magnitude and recharge) and supply potential o f groundwater resources (as a portion o f the
overall water resource). This will assist in reconciling the demands for socio-economic develop-
ment and those o f the principal groundwater-dependent ecosystems.

Inadditionto projects and initiatives undertaken inthe region under the auspices ofthe SADC
RSAP there are also numerous projects and initiatives undertaken within Member States (either
financed under their own auspices or through donor support) (refer to Annex 2 o f PAD).

Further to this the World Bank's 1996 Africa Water Resources Management Initiative (AWRMI)
seeks to support water resources analysis and policy reform at the national level and to assist ri-
parian countries in the development o f cooperative frameworks and programs in relation to
shared water resources. The AWRMI builds, in turn, upon the World Bank's long term vision o f
supporting integrated water resources management programs and projects as stated in the 1992
Water Resources Policy and 2003 Water Resources Sector Strategy.

Outside o f water-specific objectives, the project also contributes directly to the regional objec-
tives o f the SADC Policy for Environment and Sustainable Development by improving access to
water and protecting water dependent ecosystems, and by providing regional tools and an institu-
tion for the improved management of groundwater indrought prone areas, including groundwater
dependent ecosystem (GDEs).




                                                     65

GEF OperationalProgramandFocalArea

The proposed project falls under the GEF Operational Program 9 (Integrated Land/Water) which
has the goal o f "helping countries utilize thefull range of technical, economic,financial, regula-
toy, and institutional measures needed to operationalize sustainable development strategies for
international waters and their basins." There i s a particular focus on projects in the African re-
gion. The proposed project promotes this goal with its objective o f improving regional technical
capabilities and intervention strategies to promote better management o f transboundary ground-
water resources and groundwater dependent ecosystems.

The project meets the objective o f the GEF's Strategic Priority IW-2: "To expand global cover-
age of foundational capacity building addressing the two key program gaps (in particular that of
water scarcity and competing water use) and support for targeted learning". The project will
contribute to addressing important transboundary groundwater systems in the SADC region with
direct global environmental benefits associated with the proper management of the Groundwater
Dependent Ecosystems (GDEs).

BaselineScenario

The baseline consists o f many projects and initiatives being undertaken inthe region that relate to
water resources and specifically groundwater. However there i s great disparity between the vari-
ous Member States with respect to the degree of attention and financing allocated to groundwater
management. Consequently the degree to which transboundary multilateral cooperation regard-
ing groundwater management incurrently undertaken is very limited.

Where groundwater projects are undertaken there i s lack o f attention given to environmental and
sustainable development aspects of groundwater. There i s also a tendency to address groundwa-
ter management issues reactively when crises arise as opposed to proactively to prevent problems.
Consequently there i s very little information available regarding groundwater management to en-
able SADC to promote and advocate the proper management o f groundwater in the region, and a
bias inthe manner inwhich it i s viewed as resource to assist indrought management. Moreover,
there i s a lack o f attention given to the coordination of projects and sharing o f knowledge related
to groundwater throughout the region.

The baseline that i s considered here i s restricted to that o f the water sector6, and i s consequently a
more conservative estimation as projects with a focus on relevant terrestrial resource management
were not considered. Best estimates o f the proportion of each of the projects and initiatives that
form the baseline situation have been made. It i s important to note that a number o f projects and
initiatives are parts o f larger programmes that are in a constant state o f flux, particularly in terms
o f budget status and allocation. In other words the relation o f the alternate case to the baseline
could fluctuate, making it difficult to accurately establish the potential unquantifiable costs asso-
ciated with a future baseline drought scenario (in the socio-economic and ecological sense) that
would be offset by undertakingthese project components.




 The baseline information considered has been obtained from the SADC Water Division, Member State
representatives on the project steering committee and the consultants responsible for the regional and river
basis assessments during PDF-B.    .

                                                    66

Costs: Under the project, it i s expected that the governments o f the SADC region and interested
donors will invest approximately US$ 22.0 million in projects related to water and groundwater
resource management inthe project area over the project period.

Benefits: The baseline scenario would produce mostly local and national benefits as the majority
o f expenditures are targeting poverty reduction in poor communities. The baseline scenario will
result in very few global environmental benefits, as the participating governments are seeking to
cooperate under the SADC water unit, and so some basic collaborationinthe Limpopo Basin and
SADC region as a whole will begin to occur. The baseline will not address a) transboundary im-
pacts o f groundwater development inthe various river basins within the region, b) identification
o f priority groundwater drought prone areas, or c) cooperative production o f regional and national
management tools for addressing important transboundary groundwater systems in the SADC
region with direct global environmental benefits associated with the proper management o f the
Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems (GDEs).

GEFAlternative

The proposed GEF Alternative will provide a clear incremental enhancement o f existing initia-
tives in the SADC Region. This will be demonstrated by the manner in which the components
`complementhupplement' existing initiatives, thereby contributing global environmental benefits.

System Boundary and Geographic Scope: The proposed Alternative has been under preparation
since 2001 and will have a five-year implementationperiod (i.e. 2004 - 2008). Some o f the bene-
fits will clearly continue to accrue beyond this time boundary. Particularly beyond the pilot areas
as these projects are replicated and/or lessons are transferred throughout the region. However, all
the listedbenefits will be achieved duringthe five-year implementation period.

The SADC region (inclusive o f the following Member States - South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland,
Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi, DRC, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Kenya)
defines the broader geographic boundary o f the Project. There i s a small degree o f attention
given to the Indian Ocean Member States o f Mauritius and Seychelles. Since the focus o f the
Project i s primarily on transboundary drought prone areas the spatial extent o f the influence will
be more defined.      Inview of the fact that the project is also being carried out at a sub-regional
scale vis a vis the Limpopo River Basin (with associated pilot project areas) it i s anticipated that
there will be a higher level o f focus on the four Member States occurring in the basin, i.e. South
Africa, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Botswana.

The scope o f this benefit analysis should include all other significant changes brought on by the
decision to undertake the alternate project components instead o f existing or proposed baseline
activities. Inthe current context, certain project components (such as the pilots) provide elements
o f national benefits for those Member States, whereas the others have a more regional and global
benefit. Although more benefits may accrue to these specific Member States, the Alternative has
been developed to capture these lessons and replicate and scale-up these initiates throughout the
region. The replication and scaling-up i s envisaged to manifest towards the latter part o f the pro-
ject period and after project completion. Further to this, the current design o f the project compo-
nents i s such that there i s an inter-relatedness among components aimed at ensuring that incre-
mental improvements within the pilot areas can be transferred to the level o f the region.




                                                  67

Component 1- Development and testing o f a groundwater drought management plan (GDMP)
for the Limpopo Riverbasin pilot areas. (Total cost: US$IO.I74; Increment US$3.319)

  Sub-component I.I Development and testing of a Groundwater Drought Management Plan
   (GDMP)for the Limpopo River Basin Pilot Areas

  The purpose o f Sub-component 1.1i s to a) develop and test a GW drought management plan
  and associated interventions at a hands-on pilot scale so as to obtain empirical information that
  could be replicatedat the same scale elsewhere inthe region, b) contribute to the scaling-up o f
  the information obtained for use inthe development o fgeneric decision support guidelines and
  the region's knowledge base regarding GW drought mitigation (i.e. Sub-components 2.4), and
  c) to use the opportunity o f Member State cooperation and donor funding on the project to un-
   dertake `grass-roots' physical intervention to mitigate against GW drought (Le. drought-proof
   an area by addressing poverty while still considering bio-physical environmental GW needs).

ComDonent 2 - Regional Groundwater Drought Management Support                      (Total cost: US$
I7.621m; Increment: US$2.466m).

   Sub-component 2.I Development of a Regional Groundwater Vulnerability Map (inclusive of
   data collation and database and associated systems development)

   The overall purpose o f Component 2 i s to empower persons and organisations involved in the
   management o f groundwater in the region, to be able to mitigate against or minimise the ef-
   fects of GW drought. To this end sub-components that will contribute to the facilitation o f de-
   cision support have been identified and will be developed and implemented. The first o f these
   sub-components relates to GW drought vulnerability mapping. Through the integration o f
   monitoring data storage/manipulation and mapping the value o f establishing a groundwater da-
   tabase will become evident to the Member States ina transboundary setting.

   Sub-component 2.2 Research of Groundwater Knowledge Gaps

   The project preparation process has revealed that much i s still to be learnt about GW drought
   aspects in the region, as well as its relevance in a biophysical and socio-economic context. In
   spite o f the importance o f groundwater for the regionbeing known to some extent, and the fact
   that SADC policies support protection o f the environment and poverty alleviation, the lack o f
   information pertaining to groundwater still remains. Whereas surface water resources are gen-
   erally well characterized inthe region, there i s a paucity o f information relating to the region's
   groundwater resources.

   Particularly for the purposes o f informed management decisions relating to GW droughts and
   how the relate to the biophysical-social interface. Two key areas are that o f groundwater de-
   pendent ecosystems (GDEs) and the value o f groundwater in drought mitigation and manage-
   ment. Consequently the purpose o f this sub-component i s to undertake research into these
   fields with the intension o f gaining a greater understanding groundwater drought management.

   Sub-component 2.3 Regional Awareness Creation regarding Groundwater

   Groundwater resources and related matters are seldom afforded the same attention as surface
   water resources. Due to the inter-related nature o f the two, in the context o f the hydrological
   cycle, and the role groundwater can play during drought periods, it i s necessary for an aware-


                                                   68

 ness creation initiative to be undertaken within the region to raise the importance o f groundwa-
 ter. This i s deserving o f further attention when one considers that the SADC RISDP states that
 the `overall goal o f the Water Sector i s the attainment o f sustainable, integrated planning, de-
 velopment, utilization and management o f water resources that contribute to the overall SADC
 objective o f an integrated regional economy on the basis o f balance, equity and mutual benefit
 for all Member States. Further to this, in spite o f the RISDP seeing water resources and
 drought related issues as key areas o f intervention, it makes no mention o f the word `ground-
 water' anywhere inthe document. Which further indicates the benefit o f the project inmaking
 groundwater more noticeable.

 Sub-component 2.4 Develop Decision Support Guidelines and a Knowledge Management Sys-
 temfor Groundwater Drought Management in the Region

 With the disparity inknowledge around groundwater between Member States there is a press-
 ing need for SADC Water Division to assist in bringing all Member States `up to speed' or
  `levelling the playing fields' between the states. In addition to this changes in organisational
 developments and areas o f political focus throughout the region have resulted in deterioration
 o f certain Member States' laowledge o f groundwater related matters. With such factors set in
 the context o f an ever burgeoning knowledge economy there i s a need for knowledge and les-
 sons learnt pertaining to groundwater to be coordinated and addressed so that such knowledge
 i s not lost to the region. Further to this there i s a need for tools to be developed that can pro-
 vide decision support to groundwater managers.

 To address this, this project sub-component focuses on the development o f decision support
 guidelines for groundwater drought management and also the establishment o f a knowledge
 management system on the same phenomena that can be adopted by the RGDMIinthe longer
 term.

Comuonent 3 - Establishment o f The Regional Groundwater Drought Management Institution
(RGDMI) (Total cost: US$2.579m; Increment: US$2.579m)

 Sub-Component 3.I Identification and Establishment of the Regional Groundwater Drought
 Management Institution (RGDM7)

 An underlyingtheme for the majority o f these components inthis project is to raise the aware-
 ness o f groundwater and prioritise it use as a key resource with respect to sustainable devel-
  opment o f much o f the population o f the SADC region. Furthermore it i s intended that
  groundwater practitioners and decision makers be capacitated to mitigate against groundwater
  droughts andor to minimise the ravages thereof.

 Furthermore the responsibility for management o f the basic resource i s often fragmented be-
 tween different government authorities and at various levels o f government. A factor which
 has been exacerbated in recent years with the tendency o f the region's Member States move
 towards decentralization o f management responsibility and a lack o f personnel in many gov-
  ernment offices with limited knowledge, training and experience in groundwater management.
 The result i s that there i s a limitation to undertaking regional initiatives due to the multi-
  country institutional arrangements involved.

 In an attempt to correct this, there is a need to have dedicated resources allocated to the
  groundwater drought initiative. Consequently it i s imperative that all stakeholders (users, sup-
 pliers, decision makers etc) have a specific regional groundwater drought management center


                                                 69

   o f expertise they can access. Consequently the establishment o f a Regional Groundwater
   Drought Management Institute (Le. a centre o f expertise within the region to deal with
   groundwater drought related matters). Furthermore this institution will not only initially assist
   SADC Water Division inthe successful implementation o f the GEF Project, but will also link
   with other groundwater projects that fall within the auspices of the SADC Water Division and
   individual states into the future (Le. ensuring the sustainability o f the project's intended influ-
   ences).

ComDonent 4 - Project Management and Administration (Total cost: US$1.543m; Increment:
US$1.543m)

   From the description o f S M C WD's RSAP it i s evident that SADC WD i s responsible for a
   broad range o f matters pertaining to water throughout the whole SADC region. Groundwater
   i s only one such aspect o f water they deal with, and groundwater drought an even smaller ele-
   ment thereof. With such a broad ambit it can be appreciated that S M C WD do not have the
   resources to undertake all project implementation and execution activities relating to such a
   specific area of focus. Consequently, such responsibilities are allocated to mandated party on
   their behalf. A similar arrangement has been proposed for this project.

   As a consequence it is necessary for the management and administrative requirements o f this
   project to be dealt with as a separate and distinct project sub-component. The purpose o f treat-
   ing management and administration as a component is to ensure that the associated activities
   are identified and resources allocated for the successfil implementation and execution o f the
   project (and its components). Without a clear understanding o f the activities to be undertaken
   insetting upthese (management and administration) support structuresor making sufficient al-
   location o f resources for this role on the project, there i s a strong likelihood that the success o f
   the project will be compromised.

   There are three key parties who have been identified to be involved with the management and
        ..
   administrationo f the project, namely:
        .    Project Steering Committee (PSC)
             Project Services Agency (PSA)
             Project Management Unit(PMU).

Global Environmental Benefits o f the GEF Alternative:            The proposed alternative takes a re-
gional approach to the management o f globally important groundwater resources, providing in-
herent global benefits. The components are designed to enhance the region's capacity with re-
spect to groundwater drought and the mitigation o f associated impacts, through an integrated, col-
laborative process. Research and support to decision makers in policy formulation should assist
in the development and implementation o f long-term strategies for global environmentally-
friendly resource management plans at the regional level.

In parts o f the region the use of groundwater has on the whole been neglected and an over-
reliance on reactive mechanisms to mitigate against drought has developed. The alternative pro-
posed here focuses on ensuring that the value o f groundwater i s recognised and that water i s used
in a more proactive manner to address droughts. This aspect is further enhanced by the impor-
tance o f groundwater being raisedwhen adopting the proactive regional approach proposed inthe
alternative.

The broad `knowledge management' related activities across the components (such as capacity
building, training, data collection and hosting o f information within a proposed sustainable insti-


                                                   70

tution) aids sharing national efforts across the region and helps to bringall Member States onto a
more even footing, contributing to the long-term sustainable management of globally important
groundwater resources. Since most groundwater projects are primarily focused on physical, social
and economic environments the inclusion o f the ecological environment in several components
further contributes to global environmental benefits.

Incremental Cost Matrix:

The incremental costs required to achieve all outputs o f the Project amount to US$12,399,840, o f
which US$ 7 000 000 i s being sought from the GEF. The GEF contribution will be combined
withthe Sida contribution o fUS$ 1900 000 and allocated as follows:




                                                  71


ci


$ : E

3
3
Z




         3
         3




N    m   d

               I

2Ba        -r
       2



3
3      0
3      0
       0
3
3      0
       0
        k l
N




         Ir
   m

       U w
    2s u
       s




3             2  d

0
0    0      8    3              3
0    0      0    3
                 3              3
                                3
0    0
8    0      0    3              d
     0      0
      r-    a    r)             sm
v)          N    3




a
c)
u
W
'7

a
2




                 < * *    w
                          8C


                 m
                 N       dN

0
co

                                       Annex 16: STAPRoster Review
                          SADC: Groundwater & DroughtManagementProject

[Note to STAP Review. It was decided to undertakethe STAP review in two steps to gain maximum use of the
processto the benefitof the project. The STAP Reviewer was sent an initial drafl for early comments which were
worked into the document.The final draft was thenreviewedagainandthe following STAP Review submitted. The
response to the initialandfinal reviewsare includedat the endof this Annex.]

TECHNICALREVIEWOFTHEPROJECTONTHE PROTECTIONAND STRATEGICUSEOFGROUNDWATER
  RESOURCESINTHE TRANSBOUNDARY LIMPOPO                  BASINAND DROUGHT PRONEAREAS OF THE SADC
                                                   REGION

SECONDVERSION

         Document prepared:November 28,2003.
         Supporting documents:

             0  Firstversion ofthe Project Technical Review, with comments ofthe Project developers.

             0  Latest version o fthe Project Document. (November 2003).

         General: Paragraphs from the first version o f the Review, which have been already agreed upon,
are presented inan abbreviated form.

         Keyissues:

         Questions related to the scientific basis and proposed technologies:
         The project i s concerned with the groundwater resources exposed to the impact o f prolonged
drought periods which periodically affect the Limpopo basin. The remedial o f drought's negative conse-
quences will be solved under a complex strategy, concerned with the conjunctive management o f surface
and subsurface waters inthe Zambezi and Limpopo rivers.
         Inprinciple, the project is technicallyandenvironmentally sound.
         1. The definition o f the climatic background o f the project has been clearly presented by using
the explanatory Box (page 4 o fthe Project). The definition o fthe groundwater drought i s also clear. The
revisedname "Groundwater Management Institute o f Southern Africa" covers proposed activities.
         2. Iagree that it i s too early to specify accurately the mandate o f the Institute which will come
into existence sometime in the middle o f the Project. Let's hope that for the time being a risk ,,....that
countries will continue to focus on national activities", can be at least partly eliminated through institu-
tional measures such as usingthe pressure o f the Steering Committee.
         3. It has been agreed that proposed Sectoral Committee o f Senior Officials and Ministers o f Wa-
ter will be a useful tool in the sectoral approach     - under the presumption that the participation o f high
level officers can be guaranteed.
         It is understood that from eight pilot areas in the Limpopo basin, mentioned in the Project, two
have been chosen for the initial phase. A schematic map o f their location i s very helpful.
         Fromthe same version it i s understood that the Zambezi basin does not belongunder the umbrella
o f this Project. It has been only mentioned (page 3) with reference to the establishment o f respective
River Basin Commissions




                                                        81

         4. Comment to the inter-comparability in Review 1 was focused on the data which may be ac-
quaintedinthe Limpopo basin on the water level fluctuation, water quality etc. Perhaps we can agree that
such data should be processed uniformly in all pilot projects, so that the data analysts will have consistent
materials at their disposal. Any other inter-comparability o f the pilot components has not beenproposed.
         5. Protective measures in the first Review (as stated by the Project developer ,,..presumably not
implemented under this groundwater project") have not been meant at this stage as a protection o f the
GDEs, but as a protection of the recharge areas, surface o f which has a significant impact on the forma-
tion o f groundwater resources Other relevant problems, such as any kind o f the groundwater mismanage-
ment, belong to other important issues.
         N o doubt that at the latter stage an introduction o f other protective measures will be necessary for
GDEs and may require some assistance from the donors.
         As for the dambos, there was no attempt to advertise once accomplished research work, merely I
wanted to emphasise that a solid survey o f the literature relevant to GDEs behaviour in the region, can
provide useful and inexpensive results.
         6. The tools and methodologies for TDA and SAP are reasonably covered.
         7. The ecological carrying capacity, even ifnot directly discussed, can be assessed from the ma-
terials published inthe Technical Annex l, 25   p.21-.

         8. The project scope i s adequately covered.
         9. The project components (page 4) have been presentedinseparate lines as suggested.
         10. The components (not exactly technologies), mentioned under 9, do not pose any environ-
            mental threat.
         Questions related to the use o f technology:
         Relevant problems have been agreedupon accordingly with the first version o f the review.
         Questions related to the institutional arrangements:
         The description o f the institutional arrangements i s adequately covered inthe latest version o f the
Project under C 2 and does not require further comments. Role of the World Bank inthe institutional sys-
tem has been also explained under A 2 and C 2.
                                -
         Other questions:
            1. Explanatory notes about the hydrogeological features have been provided in the first Re-
    view.
            2. It i s understood that at the initial stage the project can not go to a great detail. Specific
    technical aspects, such as about monitoring and measurements, will be incorporatedat the latter stage.
            3. With properly equipped and systematically monitored pilot areas the project scope can be
    considered as adequate. As the proposed survey in the pilot areas will be rather laborious, it has been
    agreed as useful to look for a participationo f local universities and academic institutions.
            4. A special Tab. has been prepared, which identifies so called critical risks andpossible con-
    troversial aspects as the issues o f conflict.
         Identification o f the global environmental benefits:
         Perhaps some globally applicable experience can be obtained through the demonstration projects        -
ifproperly equipped and maintained. Although direct results are specific for each site, professional ex-




                                                       82

perience and methodology can be shared with similar projects elsewhere. A utilisation o f the pilot areas
as training sites for technicians and postgraduates i s under consideration.


         H o w does the proiect fit within the context o f the goals o f GEF?
         GEF general strategy is maintainedthroughout the project. This is because the support is given to
the group o f countries sharing an extensive international basin and willing to co-operate. The capacity o f
existing institutions, concerned with various aspects of groundwater, will be strengthened. Last but not
least, the supported project i s focused on specific problems o f the trans-boundary aquifers.

         Regional context:
         The Southern African Development Community            -SADC has the goal of fostering co-operation
and mutual benefit from the natural resources o f the region, formed by fourteen African states. Four of
them, namely South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Mozambique, are actively involved in a region
defined by the boundaries o fthe Limpopo international basin, with respectable size o f about 440,000 km'.
         Replicabilitv o f the proiect:
         While the Limpopo basin has been chosen as a site o f eight pilot areas, a replicability i s antici-
pated for other areas located inthe same basin and inthe basins o fneighbouring rivers north and south o f
Limpopo.
         Sustainabilitv o f the proiect:
         Perhaps more than other natural resources, groundwater i s very vulnerable to human interven-
tions. Once it i s disturbed in terms o f quality andor quantity, the remedial i s difficult if not impossible.
Protectinggroundwater against irreversible damages and preservingit for future generations requires, first
of all, protective measures in the recharge areas and legal /juridical measures for the determination o f
exploitation limits.
         Secondary issues:
         Linkages to other focal areas:
         A path for the utilisation o f Southern African experience inconjunctive use has been opened in
secondparagraph of C 2.
         Linkages to other focal programmes and action plans at regional and sub-regional levels. :
         Comment from the first version remains valid.

         Other beneficial or damaging environmentaleffects:
         The evaluation remains the same as inthe first version o f the Review.

         Degree o f involvement o f Stakeholders inthe proiect:
         A question about the incorporation o f the water pricing, raised under the Review 1, has been re-
considered with following conclusion o f the project developers: I t should be mentioned as one possible
approach out of many - but it would be uncomfortable to give the impression that water pricing is a man-
agement methodology. The detailed review of the use of groundwater resources in thepilot areas would
have to include the currentpractices which may or may not include waterpricing issues.
         Capacity buildingaspects:
         A recommendation to train the bailiffs has been accepted.




                                                       83

                          REVIEWOF THE PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT AND ANNEXES



          Document accomplished:December 19,2003
          Supporting document:Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Loadcredit from
           the Environment Facility Trust Fund. (December,2003)

The pages 1- 26 o f the P A D have been already reviewed twice - as requested. Few remaining comments
to those pages also refer to the new text inPAD.
1. Onpage 23 there have been listed three types o f the groundwater formations (inthe text called GDEs
    ?). From the description o f the pilot areas (Page 71) it follows that another important water bearing
    units are the sandstone formations at WPA. It would be useful to add that aquifer to the list, because
    incase of prolonged drought it may provide an alternative supply of water, extracted temporary from
    non-renewable groundwater resources.
2. With reference to the floodplains in the Limpopo basin, particularly in the EPA (page 74), Iwonder
    whether on the list o f projects inAnnex 2 (p.26), does not belong another operational project (or a pro-
   ject inthe GEF pipeline), called: ,,Enhancing Conservation o f Critical Network o f Wetlands Required
    by Migratory Waterbirds on the Afiican EurasianFlyways."
3. Page 28, third o f the Results Indicators: It mightbe very helpful to extend that result as ,,.......75% o f
    stakeholders indicate confidence in measures to reduce vulnerability and willingness to participate in
    the implementation o f protectivemeasures.
4. Page 32. Irecommend to incorporate, perhaps under 4: ,,...develop management plan for drought ori-
    ented early waming system, based on the analysis o f the climatic situation." Of course, that the term
    ,,early" inthis context i s a matter o f weeks, perhaps months.
5. Page 32: Under 5 Irecommend to incorporate as another activity monitoring o f groundwater level in
    selected boreholes.
6. Page 33. Sub-component 2.1: Perhaps it should be also included: ,,.....Collate and analyse historical
    climate events resulting ingroundwater deficiency."
7. Page 33: It would be beneficial to the project (Sub-component 2.2) to include one more activity be-
    yond 2, namely.: ... Determine how GDEs distribution and vulnerability can be mapped inworkable
                        "
    dynamic timeframe." This i s because an existence o f such map can facilitate, inter alia, the transfer o f
    knowledge from the pilot areas to other parts o f the Limpopo basin.
8. Page 37: Isn't the term ,,Research endownment" somehow vague? Perhaps proposed / planned re-
    search activities should be somewhere clearly specified; otherwise the allocated sum may not be effec-
    tively used (See also page 35, bottom).
9. Page 43: Last o f the Financial management functions and activities: Based on my experience from
    Kenya, once so called independent audit o f local project, made by a local auditor was a disaster. Irec-
    ommend to specify the service o f ,,external audits."
 10.A mechanism should be formulated on how to control that the purchased vehicles, instruments and
    other items will not be used for other purposes than for the determined projects.
 11.Page 62, Project Component 3 / Alternative / Domestic Benefits: I s a single word ,,Each" sufficient for
    an explanation o f a wider context?
 12.Page 63: Second explanatory note: ,,....respectively          for hydrological mapping."     Should be
    ,,...respectively for hydrogeological mapping"?



                                                        84

13.Pages 64 -68: The values given for individual projects seem to be mutually unbalanced. However, I
   understand that it i s unlikely at this stage to amend those values.
14.Page 66. Similar project as the project No. 19 would be muchneeded for selected groundwater bore-
   holes /wells..   Real time data on the groundwater level fluctuation can significantly help to the
   groundwater management.
       Further minor corrections:
1. Please, decide whether you prefer to call the river Zambezi or Zambesi. Iprefer Zambezi, however,
   sometimes the name Zambesi has also been used - as in the latest version o f this PAD - see pages 8,
   24,25.
2. On page 4, line 2, the geographical name should be probably written as Southern Africa (and not
   southem Africa), similarly like it i s written elsewhere inthe Project.
3. Page 19, line 8 from the bottom: requiremnts, write requirements.
4. Page 24, Second line from the bottom: Should it be towards instead to wards?
5. Page 33 / 2.1. / 7. Please, check the whole sentence ,,Provide pertinent...."
6. Page 42, line 6: The sentence i s not clear (should the last word be ecology or ecological ,,something"?
7. Page 68. Second line from the bottom ,,specific to-         GEFProject"?
8. Page 72, third and fourth para: The rivers named Luvubu (once) and Levubu (twice) i s probably the
   same river. Please, check.


Congratulations to a perfect Project, muchneeded in Southern Africa!




       Jaroslav Balek Ph.D.
       Consultant. Tabor, December 19 ,2003.

       Odolenova 4
       390 01Tabor
       Czech Republic
       Tellfax +420 381 25 46 55
       E-mail: iembalek@volnv.cz




                                                       85

Responses to STAP Review

Initial review of first draft

Main issues raised during the review o f first draft o f Project Document and responses. Responses in Ital-
ics.
Questions relatedto the scientific basis andproposedtechnologies:
1. The term groundwater drought management requires clarification. Agree - TextBox added with clari-
  $cation of the meaning of "groundwater drought       ".
2. For reasons of clarity it would be more appropriate to modify the name of the Regional Groundwater
   Drought Management Institution. Agree - name changed to Groundwater Management Institute of
   Southern Africa (GMISA)
3. Information on sectoral problems of society and economy i s briefly mentioned in the Appendix D,
   page 14, as: ,,..a risk that countries will continue to focus on national activities rather than take up the
   regional opportunities for socially and environmentally beneficial groundwater." It i s felt that such risk
   should be eliminated at a very early stage of the project. Perhaps the solution o f social and economic
   aspects should be incorporated into the mandate o f planned ,,Regional Groundwater Drought Man-
   agement Institution", as it i s called in the project..     This risk arises from the Regional Situation
   Analaysis report wherein a number of water resource agencies stated to the consultants that they
   didn't place much priority on the Institute since they werefocussed on national water management
   problems. Placing wording about this risk into the mandate of the Institute, which won't come into ex-
   istence until mid-way through the project, will help reduce the risk. Rather, building support for re-
   gional approaches to groundwater management seems to be a better way of lowering this risk (see
   Risk Table C.5) and possibly by using the Steering Committee for influence. Thus, STAP reviewer
   suggestion not taken up.
4. Clarification needed regarding the selection o f the Limpopo River Basin pilot areas in terms of the
   inter-comparability o f data. The selection of the pilot areas is clarij?ed in the text of the PAD and
    Technical Annex 17: Determination of Pilot is addedfor clarity.
5. The project claims that the threat to the groundwater resources o f these vulnerable areas also consti-
   tutes a major threat to the related groundwater dependent ecosystems (GDEs) in drought prone areas
   o f the region. The project also claims that the implementation will lead to the protection o f water
   dependent ecosystems in the pilot areas during the times o f drought, and to the development o f re-
   gional tools and institutional measures for improved management in groundwater dependent ecosys-
   tems (GDEs). It should be taken into the account that some of the tackled problems, concerned with
   GDEs, will require long-term approach and final solution may be not be available at the final stage o f
   the project. True-should make the claims more realistic. This also relates to the issue of theproject
   period being possibly 'out of synch ' with drought cycles, particularly within the pilot areas, thus re-
   ducing the effectiveness and value of the studies although the areas are perennially arid - this is one
   of the reasons why the Institute is so important - toprovide long-term consistency.
6. An economic impact of the GDEs degradation on the communities in affected areas i s stated in the
   project. At the same time, a reverse effect, i.e. an impact of the communities, for instance pastoralists
   or charcoal burners, on the GDEs should be also taken into the account and protective measures pro-
   posed. It is true that charcoal burning, soil erosionfrom overgrazing, etc could be affecting the. The
   STAP reviewer is proposing that these degradation issues be noted and protective measure be pro-
   posed (but presumably not implemented under this groundwater project). TheReviwer is correct that
   merelyfocussing on groundwater issues wont be suf$cient toprotect GDEs. The issue is whether add-
   ing this to theproject description will be merely a symbolic action and whether theproject should not



                                                      86

   actively campaign with donors, national land mgmt bodies, etc to jix these non-groundwater issues.
   The environmental degradation and related problems mentioned above are primarily a consequence
   ofpoverty. The overuse and mismanagement of groundwater is at least an exacerbatingfactor if not
   also an impact of poverty. I t may therefore be inevitable that the pilot studies will link thesefactors.
   We need to keep the balance between addressing related issues and ensuring that theproject isfeasi-
  ble and doable.
7. The ecosystem classification covered inthe Technical Annex 1reflects present knowledge o f GDEs
   inthe region butneeds to be extended to properly include dambo wetlands. Agreed - the deJinition of
   GDEs will be thoroughly studied as a key area of initial research under the project. The tools and
  methodologiesfor TDA and SAP are reasonably covered.
8. Various layout and textural suggestions were made and acted upon to clarify the document.
Questions related to the use o f technolow:
9. One can expect that the teams preparinghydrogeologicalmaps will be equipped with innovative tech-
   nology, including GPS. Monitoring o f the water level in the boreholes, data transmission, acquisition
   and analysis should be also based on modern technologies. Perhaps groundwater data transmission
   through satellite should be considered as another innovative altemative. This is largely the task of the
   French and Germanparallelprojects, although there is some data collection envisaged in 2.1 and 2.2.
   Points will be addressed through the detailed project design and implementation (note cost and train-
   ing implications).
Questions related to the institutional arrangements:
10.The implementation o f the over-all water related strategy should remain in the hands o f SADC, par-
   ticularly its Water Sector. It i s understood that the establishment o f the Limpopo Basin Comyission
   has been negotiated and i s under preparation. Supposedly, this will facilitate the project implementa-
   tion at all stages. The transboundary groundwater management should be also incorporated into the
   Commission's mandate. The Commission should also serve as a centre o f acquisition and dissemina-
   tion o f technical and public information relevant to the project. The Limpopo Commission is on the
   Project Steering Committee - the long term institutional arrangements will be determined during the
   course of theproject.
11.Clarity o f the roles of all involved institutions i s needed including official organisations and NGOs,
   and the World Bank. Agreed
0ther auestions:
12.It i s mentioned in the project that the pilot areas have been already selected, however, for the time
   being their location has not been explained inthe project. Map indicatingpilot areas added.
13.For a systematic analytical approach in the pilot areas it would be feasible to establish an inventory
   o f existing observed and unobservedboreholes, to activate the monitoring network with adequate data
   acquisition, processing and analysis. Equally important will be to develop sampling system for
   groundwater quality observation. The survey should be also concerned with the pumpingtests, basic
   hydrogeological characteristics, calculation o f the safe yield under variable     climatic conditions and
   identification o f the recharge areas. Meteorological / climatological data should be also available for
   eachpilot area. Detail added to Component I description.
14.With properly equipped and systematically monitored pilot areas the project scope can be considered
   as adequate. As the proposed survey in the pilot areas will be rather laborious, it might be useful to
   look for the participation of local universities and academic institutions. Agreed and added to text,




                                                      87

Secondary issues:
Linkages to other focal areas:
15.A project linkage can be identified inrelation to climatology, particularly to the analysis and predic-
   tion o f the climatic extremes as affecting groundwater regime. Agreed, particularly related to drought
   monitoring Centre in SA. Added to text.
16.Further linkage, which perhaps should have been more emphasised in the project, i s the optimisation
   o f conjunctive use o f surface water and groundwater resources under various strategies. Inthis field a
   solid experience i s available in South Africa. Agreed - this will be addressed during implementation
   when all options will bepursued.
Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects:
17,Because the project i s focused on the groundwater resources, it i s recommended to initiate the imple-
   mentation o f environmental protection measures inthe recharge areas. Agreed and added to text.
Degree o f involvement o f Stakeholders inthe proiect:
18.h this relation a question i s raised: Are the principles o f water pricing desirable in the pilot areas o f
   this project? Inother words, have they been already considered as another mechanism leadingto the
   effective groundwater management? The detailed review of the use of groundwater resources in the
   pilot areas will include the current practices which may or may not include water pricing issues.
   Similarly, investigation of the range ofpossible future management options may also include the water
   pricing issue. Therefore it would inevitably come up if the process is adequately implemented. I t is
   onepossible approach out of many.
Capacity buildingaspects:
19.Capacity building aspects are well covered in Technical Annex 1: Regional and sector background.
   Perhaps it should be added that a significant part o f the capacity buildingprogram will be the training
   of technicians insitu and focused on the field work. Agreed and added to text.

Final review of final document

Responses are given to the section entitled "Review o f the project appraisal document and Annexes."
Responses correspond to the numbering inthis section o f the STAP Review above.

1. Done
2. Could not identiJLtheproject referred to in the GEF database.
3, Added
4. It would be more appropriate for the project to provide information to other established SADC
   drought early warning systems than to duplicateprocesses.
5. Monitoring in this context is results monitoring of the project itse& not monitoring of physical ele-
   ments such as borehole water levels etc.
6. Added.
7. Added.
8. This has been changed to Groundwater Drought Management Fund.
9. Audits will be undertaken by independent auditors approved in terms of World Bank procedures and
   Jiduciary standards, andJinanced by theproject.




                                                     88

10.The PMU will be subject tojnancial management controls through the independent Project Services
   Agency.
11.Changed as suggested.
12.Changed as suggested.
13. Thevalues are the costs of the actualprojects as stated in theproject documents.
14.Agreed - No response required.

Furtherminor corrections:

All corrections are addressed.




                                                   89

                                 Annex 17: Determinationof Pilot Areas
                         SADC: Groundwater & Drought Management Project


Groundwater drought management strategies will be tested intwo pilot areas chosen duringproject prepa-
ration.

Selection of Pilot areas
Twelve criteria were selected for assessing the potential pilot areas:
        Representivity & replicability throughout SADC countries
        Drought-prone area (climatic drought) and drought vulnerable aquifers.
        Impact o f abstraction on biodiversity, including cumulative and/or downstream effects.
        Aquifer with highcompetition between water users or user groups.
        Transboundarylsharedresource (including downstreadcumulative impacts).
        Knowledge and data available
        Promote socio-economic poverty alleviation.
        Water-use predominantly rural and for agriculture.
        Maximum size 10 000 km2and preferably within the same hydrolithological unit.
        Priority rating in SADC WSCU groundwater management programme.
        Local and provincial or district water management structures inplace.
        Stakeholder commitment to Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM)
The ecological dimensions were included in the representativeness and replicability criterion. Very little
information was available on these ecological dimensions and so they were interpreted using the geohy-
drological settings and the likely occurrence o f GDEs. Thus, dolomitic settings were rated as important
because o f the occurrence o f cave and solution cavity systems which may support diverse and unique
fauna; and the extensive alluvial systems along the Limpopo and its tributaries were also rated highly be-
cause o f the highprobability of groundwater dependent ecosystems.

Each o f the eight potential pilot areas was evaluated against these criteria by the consultants developing
the Limpopo Situation Analysis report. The overall score for the individual sites varied fkom 21 to 28.5.
These scores were then assessedby the project Steering Committee and two o f the high scoring sites were
selected as the preferredpilot areas. These are referred to as Western pilot Site and Eastem Pilot Site (see
Figure 1).

Further information, especially socio-economic information,. was gathered about these two sites during a
field visit A workshop was held inMay 2003 to provide inputfrom stakeholder groups into the selection
of the pilot areas. Industry,central and local government, conservation interests, and catchment managers
were represented at the workshop. The two preferredpilot sites were endorsedby the workshop.

Western Pilot Area
The westem pilot area (WPA) covers approximately 17,000 km2 centred on the junction between the
Limpopo and Shashe rivers which form the boundary between South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe.
These rivers and their tributaries, the Thune and Motloutse Rivers in Botswana and the Tuli and Umz-
ingwani Rivers in Zimbabwe, are ephemeral. Both the Motloutse and Shahse Rivers contribute signifi-
cantly to the flow inthe Limpopo main stem and to the shared alluvial aquifer.




                                                     90

The area experiences warm summers and cool dry winters. Temperatures typically reach >40C in sum-
mer in the Limpopo valley. The average annual rainfall varies between 250 rnm and 500 mm with the
majority o f the rain occurring in summer between the months o f October to April. The mean annual po-
tential evaporation i s very high(1 450-1 500 mm) inthe central portion o f the area, decreasing slightly in
southern Zimbabwe. Most o f the western pilot area i s classified as semi-arid.

Most o f the WPA is classified as bushland, a roughly 50:50 mixture o fwoody species (trees and shrubs o f
varying heights) and grasses. There are substantial areas o f cultivated land on the southern side o f the
Limpopo in South Africa. The pilot area contains floodplain forest and woodland types, which are par-
ticularly prominent on the floodplains o f the Limpopo and its major tributaries. The forests on the river
banks themselves are important as a habit and refuge for many other species.

InZimbabwe large areas ofland are classified as communal landwith a low density rural populationun-
dertaking small-scale subsistence farming. Some land closer to Beit Bridge and the Limpopo River i s set
aside for large scale commercial farming. To the west o f the Thuli River a large area, known as the Tuli
Safari area i s set aside for controlled hunting. The government developed Shashe, Bili Jarukanga and
Kwala irrigation schemes utilize groundwater from the alluvial aquifers associated with the Thuli, Shashe
and Umzingwane Rivers. These cover an area o f some 260 ha.

The part o f the study area in Botswana i s almost exclusively used for stock farming, with small areas
where crops are cultivated on a small scale for subsistence farming. Some irrigation farming takes place
along the banks o f the Limpopo River inan area referredto as the Tuli Block. Inthe eastern corner o f the
study area inBotswana the triangle formed at the confluence o f the Shashe and Limpopo Rivers, is a de-
clared Nature Reserve known as Northern Tuli Conservation area or Mashutu Reserve.

The part of the study area in South Africa i s characterized by commercial game and stock farming, and
large areas are set aside as Nature and Game Reserves (i.e. Vhembe, Venetia Limpopo and Kimburger) or
Conservancy areas. At several places large commercial farms use groundwater from the alluvial aquifers
along the Limpopo River. The Venetia diamond mine, situated in the Venetia Limpopo Nature Reserve,
extracts large quantities o f water from the alluvial aquifer o f the Limpopo River for its operation.

A proposed Limpopo-Shashe Transfrontier Conservation Area, centred on the Shashe Limpopo conflu-
ence, i s being discussed by the three governments. This would link the Northern Tuli game Reserve in
Botswana, the proposed Vhembe-Dongola National Park insouth Afiica and the Tuli Circle safari Area in
Zimbabwe.

The population densities are low throughout the area with less than 25 people per hectare. There are popu-
lation concentrations in the vicinity o f the main towns shown on the map. In South Africa most of the
land i s under commercial agriculture or game farming and the people are concentrated in small farm set-
tlements. The workers at the Venetia Mine are bussed infrom Messina each day.

Groundwater ResourcesofWPA
The sedimentary rocks inthe Tuli Basin inthe center o f the pilot area are capped with a thick layer o f ba-
salt. Duringtimes when water demand was still relatively low, this fractured basalt was the main drilling
target, Borehole yields from this aquifer are generally low (<2 U s ) compared to that from the underlying
sandstone aquifers, and the Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), are often found to be in excess o f 1000 mg/l.
Inaddition this aquifer is more vulnerable to pollution. As a result, attention has lately shifted towards
the underlying Tsheung sandstone aquifer. The depth to the top o f the sandstone varies over short dis-
tances and can be inexcess o f 400 minplaces. However, yields are significantly higher than inthe basalt
and the quality i s also better. The best water strikes are normally encountered at the fractured zone just
below the contact with the overlying basalt, but continually increasing yields are observed with deeper


                                                       91

penetration into the sandstone. From the experiences to date, it i s therefore concluded that the two most
prominent aquifers in this pilot study area would be the alluvial deposits associated with the Shashe and
Limpopo Rivers, and the confined fractured sandstone aquifer underlying the basalt inthe Tuli Basin.

InBotswana the sandstone aquifer hasbeenthe target of geohydrological investigations to locate sustain-
able water resources for towns and villages inthe region. The villages o f Bobonong, Gobojango, Semo-
lale, Tsetsebjwe, Pont Drif, Mathatane, Motlalatau, Mabolwe, Lepokole in Botswana are totally depend-
ant on groundwater for their water supply.


EasternPilot Area
The eastem pilot area (EPA) is centred roughly on the intersection o f the borders o f Mozambique, South
Africa and Zimbabwe. Major tributaries include the Bubye from Zimbabwe, Levubu from South Africa
and Munezi from Zimbabwe via Mozambique. All make substantial contributions to flow in the middle
and lower Limpopo. The Levubu River maintained quite a strong perennial flow regime until the early
1990's when over-abstraction for irrigation inthe upper reaches and droughts caused the river to become
seasonal.

The topography o f the EPA i s generally fairly flat to gently undulating, rising northwards towards the es-
carpment in Zimbabwe and the eastem Soutpansberg in South Africa. The northem end o f the Lebombo
mountains crosses the area, roughly following the South Africa    - Mozambique     and the Zimbabwe - M o -
zambique borders. There are extensive alluvial floodplain deposits along the Limpopo, beginning about
20 kmupstream o f the Levubu confluence and extending into Mozambique.

The EPA generally has a higher rainfall than the WPA, with only a small part in SouthAfrica having 250-
300 mmper year and fairly large areas with more than 450 mm. A small portion o f the Soutpansberg in
South Africa receives more than 500 mm. Most o f the EPA has a mean annual potential evaporation o f
1450-1 500 mmper year, the maximumbeing 1500-1 550 inMozambique inthe northeastem part. The
aridity index for the EPA i s 0.30-0.40 over much o f the catchment, reaching 0.20-0.30 in the low-lying
areas central part of the Limpopo valley inthe westem part and inMozambique.

Much o f the EPA i s classified as woodland vegetation, interspersed with bushland. Grassland areas occur
inthe north-westemandnorthernparts ofthe Mozambicanpart ofthe EPA.Cultivatedlandoccur as scat-
tered patches throughout the EPA except inthe former hunting areas o f Mozambique and the Kruger Na-
tional Park in South Africa. The most extensive and important azonal vegetation types are the floodplain
forest and woodland types, which are particularly prominent on the floodplains o f the Limpopo and Lu-
vuhuRivers. The forests are important as a habit andrefuge for many species. Another distinctive type is
the salt tolerant vegetation, which occurs where there is groundwater discharge originating inthe patches
of highsalinity inthe marine deposits in Mozambique.

The main land-uses in the South African and Zimbabwean sections o f the EPA are extensive commercial
farming, game ranching or communal lands. There are large areas o f irrigated land in the Luvuvhu
catchment but they fall mainly outside the boundaries o f the Pilot Study Area. The proposed Greater
Limpopo TFCA occupies about 35% o f the EPA. It includes three national parks, Gonarezhou in Zim-
babwe, the recently proclaimed Limpopo in Mozambique and Kruger in South Africa. Negotiations for
further expansions are underway, particularly the corridor that will link Gonarezhou and the Kruger. It
also has a number o f African Iron Age settlements, including Thulamila in the park and at Gumbu and
Mabyeni inthe Madimbo area to the west of the Kruger Park.

Population densities in the eastem area are generally higher than those in the WPA, with more than 25
people in the Sengwe area of Zimbabwe and as high as 100-500 per hectare in the former Venda home-


                                                      92

land in South Africa. The major conservation areas in South Africa have very low population densities
because the people were removed at the time the parks were established. Populations in the Mozambican
section are concentrated along the Limpopo Rivers where there are several small villages and a popula-
tion o froughly 14 000 people between the border inthe north and Mapai inthe south.

GroundwaterResourcesof EPA
From a geohydrological perspective, the Karoo age sedimentary rocks, the younger Cretaceous and Terti-
ary sediments in Zimbabwe and Mozambique, and the alluvial deposits associated with the Limpopo, Le-
vubu, Bubye and Nuanetsi rivers are the most important features in this study area. Borehole data are
only available for the South African portion o f this pilot area, with a few records inMozambique.

GroundwaterDependentEcosystemsinthe two PilotAreas
From the hydrogeological characteristics o f the areas, there i s reason to believe that groundwater plays an
important role in maintaining the ecosystems. However, very little quantitative information i s available
about the groundwater dependence o f ecosystems inthe two pilot areas. Three main types o f GDEs can be
    .
expected from the geo-hydrology:

         Shallow, localizedregolith aquifers with a limited amount o f water storage. Discharge i s likely to
         vary seasonally and be unreliable during droughts. There i s little information available on these
         GDEs inthe pilot areas.
         Spring-type discharges associated with fault zones, dykes and sills, and contacts between rocks
         with different aquifer characteristics. The sensitivity o f these GDEs will vary with the degree of
         storage; GDEs associated with major aquifer discharges will be strongly to entirely dependent on
    .    groundwater. Some o f these systems may be associated with discharges from confined aquifers.
         There i s little information available on these GDEs inthe pilot areas.
         Floodplain systems with shallow unconfined aquifers which can be reached by the root systems
         o f the trees in the woodlands and forests that typically develop on these floodplains; these sys-
         tems are sustained mainly by recharge during periods when there i s surface flow or flooding.
         These system have, historically, been very reliable groundwater sources and the vegetation i s
         likely to be highly dependent on access to groundwater; the plants will be particularly sensitive to
         sudden and rapid drops in water levels. These systems already sustain economically important
         enterprises and are well suited to development for drought backup supply systems.

In the WPA, the floodplain ecosystems have been heavily disturbed, at least in South Africa, and the
levee forest has been cut off from the adjacent terrestrial environments by agricultural developments.
However, no detailed studies are available inthis area.

Inthe EPA, thicket vegetation usually associated with drainage lines accounts for about 15% o f the Lim-
pop0 National Park. Characteristic tree species o f riverbanks include Acacia robusta. Scrub thickets on
sodic clays associated with the basalts on the floodplain margins include Azima tetracantha, Cordia
sinensis, Acacia tortilis andXimenia cafra. Fever tree (Acacia xanthophloea) woodlands occur indepres-
sion on cut-off meanders with leadwood (Combretum imberbe), Acacia tortilis and lala palm (Hyphaene
benguellensis). Open mopaniveld i s found on the older flood-plain surfaces, with Kirkia acuminata,
Commiphora africana, Combretum hereroense and Terminaliaprunioides. Forty nine species o f fish are
known in this area. Three species deserve special conservation status because o f their rarity and limited
distribution, these being the two small seasonal pan inhabitants Nothobranchius orthonotus and Notho-
branchius rachovii, as well as the lungfishProtopterus annectens. Thirty four species o f frogs are known
from the area. The Sandveld Pyxie (Tomopternakrugerensis) was discovered within the Kruger Park and
has its main area of distribution within the Transfrontier Park area, although it has also been recorded in
Kwa-Zulu Natal, South Africa.



                                                       93

The floodplain and pan communities around the Limpopo-Levubu confluence also support a wide variety
of species. The floodplain communities o f this area are very similar to those described above for the Lim-
pop0 National Park with the addition o f grasslands dominated by Sporobolus consimilis in the outer parts
of the floodplain. The Madimbo section to the west o f Kruger National Park also i s a unique landscape
with an accompanying wilderness character. The riverine vegetation o f this area includes two of the four
most endangered plant communities in the Limpopo River system. The two remaining pans in this area,
Nyawadimanyini and Klein Pannetjie, are important historic migratory routes for elephants and buffalo
from Zimbabwe to the Transvaal Lowveld. The transborder floodplains are considered to be o f interna-
tional importance, particularly for breeding waterbirds, 38 species o f fish and 33 species o f amphibians.
The floodplain forests also provide a habitat for eight species o f bats and other mammals such as the
Samango monkey, Nyala antelope, Suni antelope, Four toed elephant-shrew, woodland mouse and a
range o f bird species. An application for Ramsar status i s beingdeveloped at present for this area.



                                                --00000--




                                                    94

