Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB677  
Project Name 
Groundwater & Drought Management in SADC 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%);General 
water, sanitation and flood protection sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P070547 
Borrower(s) 
RELEVANT SADC MEMBER STATES 
Implementing Agency 
SADC Water Division 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 14, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 12, 2005, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 3, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Regional issues
Regional issues
The Southern African Development Community (SADC) has the goal of fostering cooperation 
and mutual benefit from the resources of the region amongst it member countries 
–
Angola, 
Botswana, DRC, Lesotho, Mauritius, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, 
Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
 
Whilst there is no formal poverty reduction strategy for the region, the 1996 SADC Policy and 
Strategy for Environment and Sustainable Development states that the organization aims to: 
•
protect and improve the health, environment and livelihood's of the people in Southern 
Africa, particularly the poor; 
•
preserve the natural heritage, biodiversity and life-supporting ecosystems in Southern 
Africa; and 
•
support regional economic development on an equitable and sustainable basis for the 
benefit of present and future generations. 
Thus, poverty reduction is closely linked with protection of the environment and preservation of 
life supporting ecosystems. 
 
Countries in the region face 
natural constraints 
such as a high degree of spatial and temporal 
variability in the rainfall, and 
imposed constraints 
including a lack of basic data and knowledge, 
fragmented responsibility for management of water resources, lack of community involvement in 
management, outdated policies, laws and regulations, and inadequate enforcement of existing 
regulations. These constraints are particularly apparent in the case of groundwater resources.  
Page  2
Overarching these national issues is the regional issue of a lack of an effective mechanism to 
manage the numerous transboundary watersheds, both surface and groundwater, in the region.   
 
Member states signed the SADC Protocol on Shared Watercourse Systems in 1995.  In 1996, 
SADC established a Water Sector to further the protection and development of this vital regional 
resource.  The Protocol was revised in 2000 and came into force in 2003.  A Regional Strategic 
Action Plan (RSAP) for Integrated Water Resources Development and Management was 
developed in 1998 which includes 31 priority projects.  The present proposal is designed to help 
implement one of those priority projects - Project.6 entitled Regional Groundwater Management 
Program in the SADC Region.  This Program is overseen by a sub-committee of the SADC 
Water Resources Technical Committee.  This sub-committee has subsequently been incorporated 
into the Project Steering Committee to provide technical oversight and representation of Member 
States in the project governance. 
 
Under the umbrella of the Revised Protocol for Shared Watercourses, riparian states have signed 
an agreement for the joint management of surface and groundwaters in the Limpopo river basin.   
This agreement includes the establishment of a River Basin Commission and forms the basis for 
the development of common objectives, and harmonized laws and regulations for the 
management of the surface and groundwater resources. 
 
All countries in the Southern Africa region are eligible for World Bank and GEF funding 
 
Sector issues and Project rationale
The development of countries in the region is highly dependent on adequate and reliable water 
re
sources.  Thus, the RSAP states that the region’s water resources influences all aspects of the 
region’s social and economic development.  Apart from domestic water supply and sanitation, it 
is essential for agriculture, pastoralism, hydro-power generation, mining, tourism and industry.  
About one third of the people in the region live in drought prone areas, where groundwater is the 
primary source of drinking water for the human population and livestock, and most other 
activities.  Groundwater is also the prime source of water for many ecosystems and their wildlife 
in these dryland areas. 
 
Groundwater resources in arid areas are under 
threat from over-exploitation, pollution, 
sedimentation and introduction of exotic 
species.  These threats arise primarily because 
of poverty linked to an increase in population 
pressure, as well as from irrigated agriculture, 
tourism, mining and pollution from human 
waste and agricultural chemicals.  The threat 
to the groundwater resources of these 
vulnerable areas also constitutes a major threat 
to the related groundwater dependant eco-systems (GDEs) in drought prone areas of the region.  
Currently there is very limited groundwater management in the countries of the region with 
inadequate resources dedicated to the task and a general lack of effective institutions and 
Box 1:  Groundwater drought
Met
eorological drought is defined by the degree 
of dryness (lack of precipitation) and the 
duration of the dry period.  Groundwater 
drought describes when groundwater resources 
fail as a consequence of meteorological 
drought.  However, the link between 
groundwater and meteorological drought is 
poorly understood, with groundwater drought 
typically occurring later than meteorological 
drought.
Page  3
technical capacity. The impacts of exploitation of groundwater on GDEs is largely unknown, as 
is the resulting social and economic impact of the degrading of GDEs on the communities in the 
affected areas, especially the very poor.  These problems are compounded by the cyclical nature 
and variability of climatic conditions in the southern African region.  The implementation period 
of the project may or may not coincide with a drought event which requires that the outlook of 
the project must be one of assisting the region and SADC Member States to develop and 
maintain a long term perspective of groundwater drought management and the protection of 
GDEs (Box 1). 
 
It is these questions which this project aims to address through four inter-related components 
·
Testing of practical local groundwater drought management strategies at pilot level; 
·
Research into GDEs, their occurrence, vulnerability, value and protection; 
·
The development of groundwater drought management tools and guidelines; 
·
The establishment of a regional Groundwater Management Institute of Southern Africa to 
continue long term monitoring and the promotion of better management and awareness in 
the SADC region and at national level. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project objective is defined as: "The development of consensus on a SADC regional 
strategic approach to support and enhance the capacity of its member States in the definition of 
drought management policies, specifically in relation to the role, availability (magnitude and 
recharge) and supply potential of groundwater resources."  This outcome contributes both to key 
GEF programs and strategies as noted above, and to the overall objectives of SADC Regional 
Groundwater Management Program. 
 
The primary target groups for the project are the users of groundwater and groundwater 
dependent ecosystems (GDEs) in drought prone areas in southern Africa.  The target groups are 
addressed at three scales through the project 
–
at a local level in the two pilot areas (Figure 1), at 
the river basin level in the Limpopo river basin, and at the regional level through SADC.   
 
At the pilot level
the principal outcome of the project will be learning and  demonstration of 
ground water management  techniques in the Limpopo pilot areas so that communities and users 
of GDEs will be better able to mitigate against the negative effects of groundwater drought in the 
long term.  While communities in the pilot areas may not experience a groundwater drought 
during the implementation of the project, they will be better equipped to deal with these 
phenomena as a result of the activities.  The outputs at the pilot level will consist of limited 
physical infrastructure (monitoring boreholes, extraction boreholes, pans, alluvial sand storage 
curtains
1
,
etc), and non-structural measures such as improved government capacity, 
strengthening of groundwater user groups, heightened community awareness of the need to 
manage groundwater and dependent ecosystems on a long-term basis and possibly water pricing.  
In addition, water conservation techniques such as conjunctive use of surface and groundwaters 
and improvements in recharge will be tested in the pilot studies if circumstances are suitable. 
1
Alluvial sand storage curtains are small subsurface barriers constructed across sand rivers to impound floodwaters 
and thereby recharge alluvial aquifers. 
Page  4
At the national and regional level
,
the objective will be the building of consensus on a 
transborder approach to groundwater management, including tools for management and decision 
making.    Environment Ministries (and equivalent institutions) represent the national 
stakeholders and the SADC Environment and Land Management Unit represents the regional 
constituency with an interest in better management of the GDEs.  As a result of the project, these 
institutions will be better able to manage GDEs through the knowledge gained, the provision of 
tools such as maps and guidelines, and the establishment of a regional institution. 
 
Progress towards achieving reduced groundwater drought vulnerability will be measured through  
·
the development and implementation of agreed management plans at pilot level;  
·
an improved ability of local groundwater users and GDEs to survive groundwater drought 
conditions ;  
·
the ability of government officials to support the continuation and replication of these 
interventions; and  
·
the application of lessons learnt and the use of management tools at regional level. 
 
At the regional scale, the principal outcome will be supporting the strategy and  institutional 
option/s that emerge from this consensus building process including regional management tools 
and the potential establishment of a regional Groundwater Management Institute of Southern 
Africa (GMISA).  The GMISA will contain knowledge about managing groundwater droughts, 
including water conservation techniques such as conjunctive use and improved recharge, and 
thereby contribute to a long term solution to the problem across the SADC region.  Progress will 
be measured by endorsement by the SADC Water Resources Technical Committee of the 
regional tools (maps, database, knowledge management system) and guidelines; dissemination of 
the guidelines to member countries; and the establishment of the GMISA will contribute to a 
long-term solution to the problem across the SADC region. including completion of its initial 
staffing and workplan. 
 
The proposed project will be part of the GEF Operational Program 9 (Integrated Land/Water) 
which has the goal of “helping countries utilize the full range of technical, economic, financial, 
regulatory, and institutional measures needed to operationalize sustainable development 
strategies for international waters and their basins”.  This incorporates a special focus on projects 
in the African region.   The proposed project promotes this goal with its objective of improving 
regional technical capabilities and intervention strategies to promote better management of 
transboundary groundwater resources. 
 
The project contributes directly to the first two objectives of the SADC Policy for Environment 
and Sustainable Development (above) and to the newly developed SADC Water Policy by 
improving access to water and protecting groundwater dependent ecosystems in the Limpopo 
pilot areas during times of drought, and by providing regional tools and an institution for the 
improved management of groundwater in drought prone areas, including groundwater dependent 
ecosystems (GDEs).  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Page  5
Rationale for GEF involvement
The GEF is currently involved in several programs (in addition to this project) which address 
specifically the utilization and protection of transboundary and international groundwater.  This 
indicates a growing concern for groundwater and for groundwater dependent ecosystems.  These 
projects include :- 
 
Country
Project Name 
Regio
n
Focal Area 
Agency
Project 
Type 
Project 
Stage 
Egypt Developing 
Renewable 
Ground Water Resources in 
Arid Lands: a Pilot Case - the 
Eastern Desert of Egypt 
AFR International 
Waters 
UNDP Medium 
Size 
Project 
CEO 
Approved 
Regional 
Protection of the North West 
Sahara Aquifer System 
(NWSAS) and related humid 
zones and ecosystems 
AFR International 
Waters 
UNEP Medium 
Size 
Project 
CEO 
Approved 
Regional 
Environmental Protection and 
Sustainable Integrated 
Management of the Guarani 
Aquifer 
LAC International 
Waters 
IBRD Full 
Size 
Project 
Council 
Approved 
Regional Managing 
Hydrogeological 
Risk in the Iullemeden 
Aquifer System 
AFR International 
Waters 
UNEP Medium 
Size 
Project 
CEO 
Approved 
Global Conservation 
and 
Sustainable 
Management of Below 
Ground Biodiversity, Phase I 
CEX Biodiversity 
UNEP  Full 
Size 
Project 
CEO 
Endorsed 
In addition there are a number of GEF projects covering related issues which are being 
under
taken by the World Bank’s cooperating partners in Southern Africa.  These include:- 
 
1.   UNEP - Desert Margins Program (DMP) Phase1  (CEO Endorsed 2001 - under 
implementation) 
 
The overall objective of the DMP is to arrest land degradation in Africa’s desert margins 
through demonstration and capacity building activities. In the Southern Africa region, this 
project is working in Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe to develop an 
integrated national, sub-regional, and international action programme for developing 
sustainable natural-resource management options to combat land degradation and loss of 
biodiversity. The SADC Groundwater project will collaborate with this initiative to assist in  
the development of the regional groundwater managment plans. 
 
2.   UNEP - Integrated Management of Dryland biodiversity through Land Rehabilitation in the 
arid and semi-arid regions of Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbambwe  (Council Approved - 
October 2002) 
 
This project works in two transboundary areas (one between Mozambique and Zambia 
adjacent to one of the pilot areas of the current project ).  The objective is to improve 
community-based resource management, in order to address losses in soil productivity, 
Page  6
reduced food security and increased vulnerability of local communities to stresses such as 
drought.  Collaboration will be established with this project to exchange information (data on 
drought, managment plans, engagement of communities etc). 
 
3.  UNEP - Zimbabwe - NCSA for Global Environmental Management (CEO Approved 2003) 
4.  UNEP - Swaziland - NCSA for Global Environmental Management (CEO Approved June 
2003) 
 
These projects are working to identify capacity needs to address all levels of 
environmental management (focusing on the countries' ability to implement projects to 
support the global environmental conventions) in the relevant countries.  Preliminary 
assessments done in each country point to the need for strong capacity building programs 
at different levels for these initiatives to be successful.   The SADC groundwater project 
will utilize the results of the NCSAs (normally implemented over 12 months) to help 
build on local and national groundwater management capacity. 
 
Understanding the use, management and protection of groundwater in international river basins 
in drought prone semi-arid areas, and the impact of groundwater and land use practices on 
groundwater dependant ecosystems (GDEs), brings together a number of important issues which 
fit within several GEF Focal Areas and Operational Programs.  In large areas of Southern Africa 
groundwater is the only dependable source of water for basic needs and food production, which, 
given the high variability of the climate and increasing population pressure, potentially 
represents a considerable threat to both water resources (surface and groundwater) and GDEs, 
including baseflow dependent wetlands.  Careful management of these resources will be 
necessary if both the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the WSSD targets are to be 
reached. 
 
The objective of the project is to strengthen the capacity of SADC member States in the 
management of transboundary groundwater resources in drought prone areas to meet human 
development needs whilst protecting groundwater dependent ecosystems.  This objective falls 
within the International Waters Focal Area and is congruent with the GEF OP 9 
–
“Integrated 
Land and Water Multiple Focal Area Operational Program”.
 
The proposed project also clearly falls under the GEF's Strategic Priority IW-2:- To expand 
global coverage of foundational capacity building addressing the two key program gaps (in 
particular that of water scarcity and competing water use) and support for targeted learning.  The 
project will contribute to addressing important transboundary groundwater systems in the SADC 
region with direct global environmental benefits associated with the proper management of the 
Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems (GDEs).  The project under consideration will contribute 
directly to the targets under Strategic Priority IW-2 by developing country-driven management 
programs for addressing transboundary priorities in one of the largest aquifer basins in Africa by 
2006. 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement
Page  7
The World Bank's 1996 Africa Water Resources Management Initiative (AWRMI) seeks to 
support water resources analysis and policy reform at the national level and to assist riparian 
countries in the development of cooperative frameworks and programs in relation to shared 
water re
sources. The AWRMI in turn builds upon the World Bank’s long term vision of 
supporting integrated water resources management programs and projects as stated in the 1992 
Water Resources Policy and 2003 Water Resources Sector Strategy.  
 
At present the 1999 Regional Strategy for Southern Africa is the most appropriate guide to 
regional investments.  This document identifies improved management of transboundary 
resources, including water, as one of five opportunities for regional cooperation. 
 
The AWRMI seeks to establish partnerships with other multi- and bilateral donor agencies and 
members of the civil society in order to strengthen ongoing and planned initiatives. Within such 
cooperative approaches, the Bank has a comparative advantage in:  
·
analytical and operational work that draws on the Bank’s cross-country experience;  
·
ensuring that policy reforms are consistent;  
·
being an honest broker in transboundary resources such as water basins;  
·
and using the specific expertise of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and 
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Association (MIGA) to promote private sector 
investments.   
 
The present proposal, being focused on cross-country operational work and laying the foundation 
for increased transboundary water resource management, draws on these strengths. 
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1
–
Development, testing and demonstration of a groundwater drought 
management plan for the Limpopo river basin pilot areas  
 
Rationale
:
The primary objective of this component is
 
to test the application and 
replicability of methods of decreasing the vulnerability of local communities and GDEs 
to the effects of groundwater droughts.  The rationale is also to ensure that practical on-
the-ground benefits accrue to local people from the project.  The Limpopo basin has been 
selected partly because of the pressures its groundwater resources are facing, partly 
because of the extent of GDEs in the basin and partly because the groundwater 
assessment in the Limpopo River Basin has been specifically identified as a priority in 
the SADC Regional Groundwater Management Program.  Two pilot areas have been 
selected within the Limpopo Basin (Figure 1) because they were trans-boundary, 
representative of GDEs, bio-diverse, drought-prone, had good data availability, and had 
good local support. 
 
Target Group and Outcome
:
Local communities, including local government, in the pilot 
areas are the main target groups of this Component.  Target groups also include the river 
basin organisations, particularly LIMCOM, and regional offices of national Water 
Departments and Environment Departments.  The main outcome at local level in the pilot 
Page  8
areas will be improved long-term ability to withstand the negative impacts groundwater 
droughts on water security and groundwater dependent ecosystems.
 
Inputs
:
Inputs will include expertise in communications, facilitation and capacity building 
to assist in the establishment and strengthening of stakeholder arrangements to develop 
an agreed management plan.  Further inputs will be funds and technical expertise for 
physical interventions and data gathering, monitoring and interpretation to capture the 
‘learnings’ from the pilot exercises.  Where possible, a local tertiary institution will be 
involved in data gathering. 
 
Outputs
:
The outputs of this component will be improved ability of stakeholders in the 
pilot areas to manage groundwater and GDEs, the small infrastructure assets constructed 
in the pilot areas to reduce the shocks of groundwater droughts and the ‘learnings’ 
derived from the pilot process which will be the input to Component 2 of the project – the 
development of regional groundwater drought management support. 
 
Sector Issues
:
This component will provide a greater understanding at the local level of 
the role of groundwater in drought prone areas and measures which can be taken to 
balance human demand with the needs of GDEs.   
 
Component 2
–
Regional groundwater drought management support  
 
Rationale:
In spite of the importance of groundwater resources for regional growth, 
fundamental tools for transboundary groundwater management, such as hydrogeological 
maps and maps of groundwater vulnerability and water scarcity, are not available in the 
SADC region.  As a result there is little consensus on the measurement and management 
of these resources.  The tools developed in this component, together with the improved 
knowledge generated through the research sub-component, meet some of the specific 
needs identified by the SADC Regional Groundwater Management Program and will 
contribute to building consensus on the management of transboundary resources.  
 
Target group and Outcome:
Groundwater and environment managers from national 
agencies throughout region and SADC Environment staff will have access to an agreed 
mapping of transboundary and national aquifers as a basis for future joint management, 
improved knowledge of GDEs and the value of groundwater, and a set of guidelines for 
local groundwater drought management planning. 
 
Inputs:
Hydrogeological map and data (from associated French government funded 
projects); landuse, economic and ecosystem data-sets.  Climate data will be accessed 
from national institutions and regional Drought Monitoring Centre. 
 
Outputs:
Improved knowledge of groundwater-dependent ecosystems, economic 
valuation of groundwater; maps of groundwater vulnerability and water scarcity; greater 
awareness amongst decision-makers of groundwater role; guidelines on better 
management of groundwater-dependent ecosystems throughout region. The translation of 
information gained through the pilot programs, regional data and information, and the 
Page  9
GDE research into practical management tools and guidelines will make the output of the 
project both accessible and useful at regional and national levels. 
 
Sector Issues:
Greater understanding of GDEs and their vulnerability will contribute to 
their protection and the sustainability of fragile resources upon which rural communities 
depend.  The impact upon and use of transboundary aquifers, particularly in the Limpopo 
River Basin will be better understood through the project together with the development 
of local management and physical modalities to ‘drought-proof’ local areas or at least 
increase their ability to cope with groundwater drought.   
 
Component 3
–
Establishment of the Groundwater Management Institute of Southern 
Africa (GMISA)  
 
Rationale
:
There is a need to maintain a long-term regional awareness and capacity to 
address groundwater drought because of the climatic variability and unpredictability in 
the region. This is both to provide follow-through to the project (the implementation 
period of which may not coincide with a drought event) and to maintain readiness and 
capacity for future inevitable drought events which may occur anywhere in the SADC 
region.  The SADC Regional Groundwater Management Program has identified the need 
for an institution (sub-project 6) to raise understanding of groundwater management 
through research, knowledge management, coordination and capacity building.  The 
degree of consensus for the establishment of the Institute and the commitment to its 
financial sustainability on the part of the SADC Member States will be determined as a 
prerequisite for the establishment of the Institute. 
 
The provision of a Groundwater Drought Monitoring Fund (GDMF) to the Institute will 
enable continuity of the project research program (included in Component 2) and assist 
the Institute to establish itself, to continue monitoring the pilot areas and set up an initial 
research program.  This will greatly extend the value of the project, particularly given 
that the project period may not coincide with a regional drought event.  The GDMF, 
administered and guided by the GMISA will be a key element in the management and 
protection of shared international aquifers in the SADC region and their dependent 
ecosystems. 
 
Target group and Outcome:
National environment and water resource managers, SADC 
Water Division and Environment Units, and developing River Basin Organizations will 
have a regional institution that provides data, knowledge, training and other capacity 
building, coordination with other regional activities and awareness raising of 
groundwater management.  
 
Inputs:
The Institution will be established with initial support from the project together 
with in-kind support from the host institution.  The data and knowledge derived from 
Components 1 and 2 will also comprise significant inputs to the establishment of the 
Institution.  The GDMF will also assist in ensuring the sustainability of the Institute. 
 
Page  10
Outputs:
Institution capable of taking lead role in regional groundwater drought 
management, if there is sufficient consensus and established commitment to the financial 
sustainability of the Institute on the part of the SADC Member States. 
 
Sector Issues:
Provides node for promoting improved management to the benefit of all 
sectors described in A.1. 
 
Component 4
–
Project management and administration  
 
Rationale:
The project management is designed to provide maximum external support to 
SADC Water Division (SADC-WD) through a Project Steering Committee, a Project 
Services Agency and a Project Management Unit in response to lessons from earlier 
projects. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.00 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
7.00 
EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION 
1.00 
FRANCE, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS-
MOFA) 
0.08 
GERMANY, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR BMZ) 
1.22 
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING 
COUNTRY 
2.70 
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA) 
0.50 
Total: 12.50 
6. Implementation 
 
The project is a partnership between SADC (working through the Water Division), the 
governments and government departments of SADC Member States, the PMU and the 
stakeholders (in particular the user communities in the pilot areas of the Limpopo River Basin).  
The project is co-financed directly between GEF and the Swedish International Development 
Cooperation Agency (Sida), and indirectly through contributions from the French and German 
governments (through a hydrogeological mapping program, the outputs of which are important 
inputs to the project) and the SADC Member States.  
 
Sida is providing 0.5 million US dollars as co-financing to the project.  These funds are in the 
form of Bank implemented Trust Funds and will be employed through the AWRMI on activities 
agreed with SADC. 
 
The project will be carried out in close collaboration with a hydrogeological mapping program, 
components of which are funded by the French and German governments.  The mapping 
activities in sub-component 2.1 of the current project will be based on the hydrogeological map.  
Page  11
The map and associated databases will complement the vulnerability and scarcity mapping 
activities.  These projects will all be coordinated through the SADC-WD and jointly overseen by 
the Project Steering Committee. 
 
The first phase of the development of the hydrogeological maps for the Southern African region 
is an exploratory phase entitled “Preliminary Study for the Development of the Hydrogeological 
Map and Atlas for the SADC Region”.  This has been funded by the French Government (US$ 
80,000) and has been undertaken during the preparation phase of the project which is the topic of 
this PAD.  The mapping exercised is to be financed by the German Government to the amount of 
1
million Euro and is currently under preparation.  The proposed Groundwater Management 
Institute of Southern Africa will be the custodian of the outputs of these projects. 
 
Period of Implementation
:
The period of implementation is four years.  
 
Executing Agency and the Steering Committee
:
The SADC Water Division (SADC-WD) is the 
Executing Agency of the Project. It is located within the Directorate for Infrastructure & 
Services of SADC Secretariat located in Gaborone, Botswana. The implementation of the Project 
will be guided by a multi-stakeholder Project Steering committee (PSC). At the technical level, 
the SADC-WD is also guided by the Water Resources Technical Committee (WRTC). 
 
The Steering Committee will report to the SADC Water Resources Technical Committee 
(WRTC), and the Integrated Committee of Ministers. Local stakeholder committees will be 
established in the pilot areas to guide local project activities.  
 
The Limpopo Basin pilot activities will be carried out in close collaboration with the Limpopo 
River Basin Commission (LIMCOM) which will be represented on the Steering Committee.   
 
Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Project Services Agency (PSA):
The Executing 
Agency of the project (SADC-WD) will work through: (a) a Project Management Unit (PMU) 
for technical implementation, and (b) a Project Services Agency (PSA) for conducting the 
financial management, administration and procurement functions.  The GMISA (to be set up 
during the project) will have a small unit to ultimately take over the functions of the PMU and 
PSA, including procurement and financial administration. 
 
PSA
:
Project contracting, disbursement and financial management and reporting will be handled 
through the PSA as these activities are beyond the capacity and functions of SADC-WD as 
currently constituted.  The PSA will be a management group with experience in the 
administration of development projects and that meets Bank requirements for financial 
management and procurement.  Both the PMU and the PSA will report to the SADC Secretariat 
through the SADC-WD.  The SADC Secretariat, being the project executing agency, will fulfill 
its responsibilities for meeting Bank financial and procurement requirements through the PSA.   
Thus the SADC Secretariat will be relieved of day-to-day functions of the management and 
administration of the project whilst remaining the responsible executing agency. 
 
Page  12
On behalf of SADC-WD, the PSA will establish the PMU and contract a range of consultants to 
carry out the pilot and regional activities.  There is considerable groundwater expertise in 
government agencies, NGOs and the private sector in parts of the region 
–
particularly in South 
Africa, Namibia and Botswana – and wherever possible this expertise will be used in the project.   
 
UNOPS has been identified by SADC through approved procurement processes as the PSA. 
 
An Independent Review Panel
 of
consultants will be at the disposal of SADC-WD.  The 
objective of the Panel will be to provide an external resource to the project to review the 
technical and scientific plans, technology use, hydro-geology, GDEs, social and economic 
impact etc.  
 
PMU
:
The PMU will be established in Gaborone, Botswana, in a separate office to the SADC-WD.  
The role of the PMU will be to manage and coordinate the various consultancies that will be 
contracted to undertake the different project activities.  Technical staff for the PMU will be 
regionally selected through open competition according to criteria agreed with the Bank.    
 
7. Sustainability 
 
SADC’s commitment to the project is illustrated by the extensive process that gave rise to the 
proposal as well as the support received during preparation. The SADC Sub-Committee on 
Hydrogeology acted as the Steering Committee for the preparation activities.  Representation on 
this committee was by those officials responsible for groundwater management within 
government departments.    The Sub-Committee noted the importance of this project to SADC 
member countries during progress reviews of the RSAP.  It is planned that this committee will 
form the core of the Project Steering Committee for project implementation along with a broader 
representation of stakeholder groups, thus ensuring continuity of oversight and commitment. 
 
The tools developed during the project for regional management of groundwater will be 
sustained through the SADC system and the Groundwater Management Institute of Southern 
Africa (GMISA).   The Institute is the most important element for the long-term sustainability of 
the project’s outputs.  It will have the role of promoting the concept of regional management of 
groundwater resources, building understanding about the benefits of regional management, 
developing capacity and furthering the use of the tools developed during the project.  
 
The sustainability of the GMISA is of critical importance.  Sustainability will require four main 
criteria – a) political endorsement and commitment; b) adequate leadership, c) technical and 
administrative competence, and d) financial security.  One of the primary objectives of the 
establishment phase of the Institute during the first 2 ½ years of the project will be to ensure that 
these criteria are achieved, 
without which the establishment of the GMISA will not proceed
.
The measures taken to ensure this will therefore be determined during the project but would 
include:- 
 
Page  13
a) The SADC Secretariat will be requested to canvas and re-affirm the commitment to the 
establishment of the Institute by the Member States.  This will need to include 
appropriate commitment to the financial sustainability of the Institute (see d. below). 
 
b) Careful identification of the host institution within SADC such that the working 
conditions of the head and small staff of GMISA are conducive to attracting the highest 
caliber of professionals.  The search process for the staff of the Institute will also need to 
be very thorough. 
 
c) The institute will be established during the course of the project so that it operates 
concurrently with the project for 2 years.  During this time the staff will benefit from a 
planned program of training and development which is provided for in the project budget.  
This will ensure that the Institute is competently run and the service that it provides to the 
SADC region is of the highest professional standard. 
 
d) Financial sustainability is critical and will require creative and sustained effort.  A 
number of avenues will be investigated such as  
-
‘subscriptions’ from the SADC Member State governments,  
-
the sale of products, outputs and services, 
-
levies on research funds administered by the Institute, and  
-
fund raising. 
The costs of running the Institute for the first two years will come from the project budget 
which will provide the opportunity for finances to be secured for the continued 
functioning of the organization.  The 0.5$ million Groundwater Drought Monitoring 
Fund provided for in the project, whilst not intended to cover day-to-day running costs, 
will also assist the Institute to establish itself and would provide some resources for 
running costs through administration fees. 
 
The purpose of the Limpopo pilot component is to test various management options at the local 
scale, to learn from them and to replicate the lessons learned through the guidelines which will 
be developed for region-wide application. In addition, LIMCOM will be involved in 
management of the pilot project and, together with other international river basin organizations 
in the region, will be able to replicate these lessons learned from the pilot areas. Lessons learned 
can be replicated in other parts of the world through the GEF framework such as the GEF's 
outreach and publication program, GEF Lessons notes, and country dialogue workshops. These 
avenues provide excellent opportunities for wider dissemination of results at the global level. 
 
A
Replication Plan will be prepared by the mid-point of the project and will be reviewed by the 
Steering Committee, the SADC WD, the Review Panel and the Mid-Term Review.  The 
Replication Plan will identify the key requirements required to ensure that the outputs of the 
project will be taken up at a regional level and within Member States, and will identify detailed 
actions to be undertaken during the remainder of the project period to ensure replication. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Page  14
Experience from a wide range of current work throughout the African Continent and in particular 
from programs such as the Nile Basin Initiative suggests that for projects to be successful related 
to shared international waters (both surface and groundwater), there is a need for the riparian 
countries to establish a common vision for action and to have political commitment at the highest 
possible level. In the case of this project, the Revised SADC Protocol on Shared Watercourses is 
the common framework agreed to by all the Member States which is currently being translated 
into a common management approach in the Limpopo and other river basins.  The current project 
will support the Limpopo River Basin Organisation  (RBO) and develop common tools to be 
housed in the regional institution to be established by the project as a precursor to a wider 
regional approach to transboundary groundwater management.   
 
GEF experience also stresses the need for implementing agency collaboration and donor 
coordination. SADC has established a strategic reference group consisting of various donors to 
provide advice to the implementation of the Regional Strategic Action Plan (RSAP). The present 
project is part of a Regional Groundwater Management Program being supported by various 
other donors. 
 
Experience also illustrates the importance of full stakeholder involvement in project preparation 
and implementation. The project concept presented in this PAD is an outcome of the significant 
consultative process that was part of the development of the Regional Strategic Action Program 
(RSAP) and, subsequently, the regional groundwater management program.  The project itself 
will be steered by a group containing all stakeholders. 
 
The Groundwater Management Advisory Team (GW-MATE), formed with the support of the 
Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program, has been supporting the design of the current 
project, by drawing on the multi-disciplinary international experience of its members.  GW-
MATE was formed with support from the Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program to 
promote a shift in emphasis from groundwater resource exploitation to improved management of 
the resource. 
 
Experience through a number of World Bank engagements with the SADC Secretariat, including 
the preparation phase of this project, indicates that SADC has limited project management 
capacity. The management of the present project has therefore been designed to provide as much 
external support as possible through the appointment of a Project Services Agency to carry out 
the day-to-day administrative, financial and procurement activities and a Project Management 
Unit that will be responsible for the content of the project and the achievement of the project 
objectives.  An alternative implementation arrangement could have been direct implementation 
of the project by the SADC Water Division with administration and financial management being 
undertaken directly by the SADC Secretariat, however the experience during the project 
preparation phase under a GEF PDF B Grant indicates that project implementation is not the 
strength or the function of the SADC Secretariat or the Water Division.  There is no experience 
of past completed World Bank projects being undertaken by SADC and therefore no relevant 
World Bank OED reports (Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs), Project Performance 
Assessment Reports (PPARs) etc.)    
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Page  15
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered 
 
Yes No 
 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03-) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)* 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50) 
[x] 
[ ] 
 
Safeguard Screening Category
 
The Safeguard Screening Category is S3. 
 
Environmental Screening Category 
The Environmental Screening Category is C. 
 
Key Safeguard Policy Issues
 
The project has pilot scale interventions in two pilot areas in the Limpopo River Basin which are 
designed to test the application and replicability of methods of decreasing the vulnerability of 
local communities and GDEs to the effects of groundwater droughts.  The pilot areas are in an 
international water course 
–
the Limpopo River Basin and therefore OP/BP 7.50, “Projects on 
International Waterways”, is triggered. However, the four riparian countries of the Limpopo 
river (Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe) are beneficiaries to the project as 
the project will be implemented in each of those countries. The four countries have been 
represented on the Project Preparation Steering Committee which has been the body responsible 
for over-seeing the preparation of the project and approving the selection of the Pilot Areas.  
Each of the four riparian countries have sent specific Letters of Endorsement of the project, 
which is a GEF requirement, and these are on file.  Moreover, the recipient of the GEF grant will 
be the SADC Secretariat which is mandated to implement the project by the SADC Member 
States including the Limpopo riparian states. Under these circumstance the requirement of 
notification of other riparians does not apply. 
 
Capacity to Implement Recommendations
 
Policy OP7.50, although formally triggered, is already satisfied because of the involvement of all 
SADC countries in the project selection and preparation.  The capacity varies greatly across the 
four countries bordering the Limpopo basin.  South Africa and Botswana have good technical, 
legal and institutional capacities for implementing safeguard requirements.  Zimbabwe and 
Mozambique have poorer capacities.  However, given that the project is designed to reduce stress 
on the environment, it is unlikely that there will be any impacts and the existing capacities 
should be sufficient. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  16
The extent to which the project would trigger the safeguard policies was discussed with SADC 
officials during project preparation and it was agreed that the requirements of OP7.50 had been 
met.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
World Bank Lending Preparation Documents
1.  Minutes PCD review meeting 
2.  Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet 
3. Project Information Document 
4.  Project Appraisal Document 
 
GEF Documents
5.  PDF (B) Grant Application 
6.  Project Executive Summary 
7. Project Brief 
8.  Set of key SADC Government Endorsement Letters 
9.  GEF STAP Review 
10. Incremental Cost Analysis 
 
Project Preparation Documents
11. Project Steering Committee Minutes 
12. Report on Pilot Area Stakeholder Meeting 
13. SADC Region Situational Analysis 
14. Groundwater Situation Analysis in the Limpopo River Basin  
15. Limpopo Basin Social Assessment 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact:  
Leonard John Abrams 
Title:    
Sr Water Resources Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel:  
 
(202) 458-0412 
Fax:  
 
(202) 473-8301 
Email:   
labrams1@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:   
(202) 458-5454 
Fax:     
(202) 522-1500 
Page  17
Web:    
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
