Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7657-AM
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Access to Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises Project) 
 
between 
 
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 26, 2009  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7657-AM
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 26, 2009, between CENTRAL BANK OF THE 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million ($50,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PIU in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Chairman.   
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Central Bank of the Republic of Armenia 
6
Vazgen Sargsyan Street 
Yerevan 
Republic of Armenia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
+
(374-10) 523 852 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By: /s/ Arthur Javadyan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Aristome Varoudakis 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to maintain or increase Armenian small and 
medium enterprises’ access to medium term finance. 
 
The Project consists of the following activity: the establishment and operation of 
a
credit facility within the Borrower’s PIU for SME financing, through the provision of 
Sub-loans to PFI’s, enabling such PFI’s to finance the costs related to the Sub-projects. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A.
 
Implementation 
 
1.
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, the PIU, and ensure that the PIU functions at all times in a 
manner and with staffing and financial resources necessary and appropriate for Project 
implementation, and satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations under the Operational 
Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual without 
obtaining the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, comply with 
the applicable prudential regulations of the Guarantor. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C
.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements  
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make a part of the 
proceeds of the Loan available to PFIs under subsidiary agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and each PFI under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, 
including those set forth in Section C.4 below
 (“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of its 
provisions without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, in close cooperation with the Bank, select PFIs for the 
Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement with PFIs  shall 
comply with, but not be limited to, the following terms and conditions: 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(a) 
the amount of Subsidiary Loan to each PFI shall be made available in 
Dollars and/or Drams; 
 
(b) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by the 
concerned PFI in Dollars or in Drams to the Borrower in semi-annual installments over 
five (5) years, including a grace period up to five (5) years;  
 
(c)  
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balances of the Subsidiary 
Loans at a rate acceptable to the Bank and to be determined as follows: (i) the interest 
rate for Subsidiary Loans denominated in Dollars shall represent the prevailing interest 
rate as determined in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement plus the 
administrative costs and other costs of the Borrower and a credit risk margin acceptable 
to the Bank; and (ii) the interest rate for Subsidiary Loans denominated in Drams shall be 
determined by a methodology acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(d) 
ensure that no expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the first five Sub-loans from each PFI 
shall have been approved by the Bank; 
 
(e) 
each PFI shall carry out the Project activities in accordance with the 
Anti-corruption Guidelines; 
 
(f) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental 
framework, including environmental review and screening procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  To that end, it shall require each SME applying for a Sub-loan to 
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank showing that the Sub-
project in respect of which the application has been prepared is in accordance with such 
procedures; 
 
(g)  
ensure that for Sub-projects which require an environmental mitigation 
plan, the SME shall carry out such environmental mitigation plan in a timely manner, 
requiring such environmental mitigation plan to be in compliance with: (i) 
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Guarantor relating to health, safety and environmental protection, 
and shall include adequate information on the carrying out of such environmental 
management plans in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this Schedule 2;   
 
(h) 
ensure that: (i) goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 
2; and (ii) such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-
project; 
 
(i)  
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the aggregate 
amount of all outstanding sub-loans to any one SME from all PFIs shall not exceed an 
amount set forth in the Operational Manual; and  
Page  8
-
7
-
(j) 
 ensure that Sub-loans are provided to the SMEs registered within the 
territory of the Guarantor. 
 
D
.
Sub-loans 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that PFIs make Sub-loan to SMEs in accordance with 
terms and conditions, eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that PFIs make each Sub-loan under a Sub
–loan 
Agreement with each SME on terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, 
which shall, 
inter alia
,
include the following:   
 
(a)  
the Sub-loan  shall be made to each SME in Dollars and/or Drams; 
 
(b) 
interest shall be charged by a PFI on the principal amount of each Sub-
loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the prevailing interest rate under 
the concerned Subsidiary Loan Agreement of said PFI as determined in accordance with 
Section C.4 (c) above plus a market-based spread determined by the PFI making such 
Sub-loan; 
 
(c) 
each Sub-loan shall be made by the PFI to the SME on terms and 
conditions, including those relating to the maturity, currency denomination, and other 
charges determined in accordance with the PFI’s lending policies and practices, and the 
provisions of the Operational Manual; 
 
(d) 
each Sub-loan shall be made by the PFI to the SME on terms and 
conditions, including rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower, namely, the right to: 
 
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the SME to use the proceeds of 
the Sub-financing, or declare to be immediately due and payable 
all or any part of the amount of the Sub-financing then 
withdrawn, upon the SME’s failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement;  
 
(ii) 
require each SME to:  
 
(A)  
carry out its Sub-project: (aa) with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, health 
and social standards and practices, satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (bb) in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
loan proceeds other than the Borrower; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(B)  
procure the goods and works and to be financed out of 
the Sub-loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
 
(C) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-
project, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents;  
 
(D) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing. 
 
E. Safeguards 
 
 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the environmental framework which is an integral part of the Operational Manual. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
Established Private or Commercial Practices
.
Contracts for goods and works 
may be awarded in accordance with the established private or commercial practices 
which have been found acceptable to the Bank. 
 
C.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the first 
three (3) contracts procured on the basis of commercial practice, as financed by the Sub-
loan agreement signed by each PFI shall be subject to the Prior Review by the Bank. All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall
 specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
Percentage of  
Expenditures to be  
Financed 
 
(1) Sub-loans 
49,875,000 
100% 
 
(2) Front-end Fee 
     125,000 
Amount  payable  pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category (1).  
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 28, 2011. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
July 15, 2014 
1.320% 
January 15, 2015 
1.350% 
July 15, 2015 
1.390% 
January 15, 2016 
1.420% 
July 15, 2016 
1.460% 
January 15, 2017 
1.490% 
July 15, 2017 
1.530% 
January 15, 2018 
1.570% 
July 15, 2018 
1.610% 
January 15, 2019 
1.650% 
July 15, 2019 
1.69.0% 
January 15, 2020 
1.730% 
July 15, 2020 
1.780% 
January 15, 2021 
1.820% 
July 15, 2021 
1.870% 
January 15, 2022 
1.910% 
July 15, 2022 
1.960% 
January 15, 2023 
2.010% 
July 15, 2023 
2.060% 
January 15, 2024 
2.110% 
July 15, 2024 
2.160% 
January 15, 2025 
2.220% 
July 15, 2025 
2.270% 
January 15, 2026 
2.33.0% 
July 15, 2026 
2.390% 
January 15, 2027 
2.450% 
July 15, 2027 
2.510% 
January 15, 2028 
2.570% 
Page  13
-
12
-
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
July 15, 2028 
2.640% 
January 15, 2029 
2.700% 
July 15, 2029 
2.770% 
January 15, 2030 
2.840% 
July 15, 2030 
2.910% 
January 15, 2031 
2.980% 
July 15, 2031 
3.060% 
January 15, 2032 
3.130% 
July 15, 2032 
3.210% 
January 15, 2033 
3.290% 
July 15, 2033 
3.370% 
January 15, 2034 
3.460% 
July 15, 2034 
3.540% 
January 15, 2035 
3.630% 
July 15, 2035 
3.840% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Disbursement Letter” means the letter dated as of the same date of this 
Agreement, including the additional instructions as referred to in Section IV A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be revised from time to time. 
 
5. 
“Dram” means a lawful currency of the Guarantor. 
 
6. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual approved by the Borrower on January 
23, 2009, setting out the operational and administrative procedures, including the 
environmental framework, in respect of the preparation, selection, environmental 
screening, approval, financial management, disbursement and implementation 
and supervision of Sub-loans. 
 
8. 
“PFI” means a financial institution, selected by the Borrower and the Bank, to 
participate in the Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria and selection 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
10. 
“PIU” means the project implementation unit of the Borrower which shall be 
responsible for day to day implementation, management and coordination of all 
Project activities. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
11. 
“SME” means an enterprise registered and operating within the territory of the 
Guarantor satisfying the appropriate criteria and selection procedures set forth in 
the Operational Manual. 
 
12. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means any loan made by the Borrower to the PFI for the 
purposes of on lending to the SME pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the PFI to SME, out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, for purposes of financing all or a portion of the 
expenditures incurred by an SME for goods and works under a Sub-project. 
 
14. 
“Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the PFI 
and each SME for provision of a Sub-loan pursuant to the Operational Manual 
and referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
 
15. 
“Sub-project” means a specific investment or working capital project, selected in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, which is proposed to be carried out by 
an SME, in whole or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end 
Fee and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the 
Association (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such 
Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective 
Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan 
Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the 
advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to 
itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing 
Page  17
-
16
-
Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank 
or the Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank 
or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.
”
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the 
Financing Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 
2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the 
Execution Date (as herein defined) or such other date as 
requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank, on which 
the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(c) 
The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, 
to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency 
of an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues 
interest at a variable rate during the Conversion Period, the 
variable rate of interest applicable to such amount shall be equal 
to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or such other base rate as 
may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank
,
for the Approved 
Currency; plus (B) the spread to LIBOR or to such other base 
rate
,
if any, payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge 
Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the 
Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the interest rate component of the Screen Rate.” 
Page  18
-
17
-
