                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00002704



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-76570)



                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                         CENTRAL BANK OF ARMENIA

                                       FOR A

  ACCESS TO FINANCE FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES PROJECT



                                   June 24, 2013




Financial and Private Sector Development
South Caucasus Country Unit (ECCU3)
Europe and Central Asia Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective as June 24, 2013)


           Currency Unit = Armenian Dram (AMD)
                         1.00 = US$
                      US$ 1.00= 411


                       FISCAL YEAR

                  January 1 – December 31



           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB       Asian Development Bank
AFSME     Access to Finance for SMEs project
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBA       Central Bank of Armenia
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
GAF       German Armenian Fund
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation completion report
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IFI       International Financial Institution
ISR       Implementation status and results
          Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (German government-owned
KFW       development bank
NBFI      Nonbank financial institutions
NPL       Nonperforming loans
PDO       Project Development Objective
PFI       Participating Financial Institution
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
ROA       Return on Assets
ROE       Return on Equity
SME       Small and medium enterprise
SME DNC   Small and Medium Enterprise Development National Center
      Vice President: Philippe Le Houérou
    Country Director: Henry Kerali
     Sector Manager: Aurora Ferrari
Project Team Leader: Karen Grigorian
   ICR Team Leader: Bujana Perolli
                                                          ARMENIA

                    Access to Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises Project



                                                         CONTENTS
  Data Sheet
      A. Basic Information
      B. Key Dates
      C. Ratings Summary
      D. Sector and Theme Codes
      E. Bank Staff
      F. Results Framework Analysis
      G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
      H. Restructuring
      I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..................................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................. 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................ 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................ 19
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................... 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.................. 22

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 26
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 30
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 31
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 40
  Annex 9. Distribution of Loans, as of end-December 2012 ............................................. 41
  Annex 10. Financial Soundness Indicators for the Banking Sector.................................. 44
  Annex 11. Financial Soundness Indicators for PFIs ......................................................... 45
  Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 46
  MAP
                                        ARMENIA

ACCESS TO FINANCE FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES PROJECT

                                     DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Access to Finance for
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:             Small and Medium
                                                                          Enterprises
Project ID:             P115109                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76570
ICR Date:               06/24/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          CENTRAL BANK OF
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Original Total
                        USD 50.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 50.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 50.00M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Central Bank of Armenia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process               Date           Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/14/2008     Effectiveness:             04/16/2009        04/16/2009
Appraisal:            01/20/2009     Restructuring(s):                            03/07/2011
Approval:             02/24/2009     Mid-term Review:           09/15/2010        11/15/2010
                                     Closing:                   09/28/2011        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
SME Finance                                                           100                    100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             100                   100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou             Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Henry G. R. Kerali                 Asad Alam
Sector Manager:              Aurora Ferrari                     Lalit Raina
Project Team Leader:         Karen Grigorian                    Michael Edwards
ICR Team Leader:             Bujana Perolli
ICR Primary Author:          Bujana Perolli

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To maintain or improve Armenian small and medium enterprises' access to medium term
finance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective was not revised.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval       Target        Completion or
                                             documents)       Values         Target Years
                Cumulative amount of medium term credit granted by the PFIs under the project
Indicator 1 :
                (including revolving funds)
Value
quantitative or 0                          50,000,000                        98,143,972
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2009                   04/16/2009                        12/31/2012
                The target was achieved by 196%, as measured by cumulative amount of the
Comments
                credit line disbursed to SMEs, including use of revolving funds. Medium and
(incl. %
                long term lending accounts for 98% of the SME portfolio under AFSME facility
achievement)
                by volume and number of loans

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                          Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                            Revised
                                            approval                         Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                           documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Volume of Bank Support: Lines of Credit - SME
Value
(quantitative   0                          50,000,000                          50,000,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2009                   04/16/2009                          12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The target was fully met. All funds were disbursed by end-May 2012.
achievement)
                Cumulative number of SMEs financed by the PFIs from the credit line (including
Indicator 2 :
                revolving funds)
Value
(quantitative   0                          2,500                               7,474
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2009                   04/16/2009                          12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The target is achieved by 332% due to the use of revolving funds.
achievement)
                Number of non-performing SME loans (more than 30 days delinquent) / total
Indicator 3 :
                number of loans (NPLs defined by CBA as Category II, III and IV loans)
Value
(quantitative   7.57                       5.00                                6.4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2009                   04/16/2009                          12/31/2012
Comments        Data for SME NPLs was not available. Instead, this indicator monitored non-
(incl. %        performing loans to total loans in the entire banking system, to indicate the
achievement)      quality of loan portfolios in the banking sector.
Indicator 4 :     Non-performing loans (more than 30 days delinquent) / total loans
Value
(quantitative     7.00                      5.00                              1.1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/15/2009                 04/16/2009                       12/31/2012
Comments          This indicator measures amount of NPLs on loans advanced by PFIs under the
(incl. %          project. NPL portfolio for loans advanced by PFIs is much lower than target of
achievement)      below 5%. In terms of number of NPls, ratio is 1.6%.
                  Number of times PFIs' total SME lending increased compared to the amount
Indicator 5 :
                  drawn under the project
Value
(quantitative     1                         &gt;1                             5.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/15/2009               04/16/2009                        07/31/2012
Comments          Lending by PFIs to SMEs is 5 times the amount drawn down under the project.
(incl. %          SME portfolio of PFIs has grown more than 2.4 times since 2008 (baseline year)
achievement)      and reached AMD 256.4 bln as of June 2012 (AMD106.5 bln in 2008).
Indicator 6 :     Outstanding SME Loan Portfolio
Value
(quantitative     154,834,717,000                                             362,185,325,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                                                  06/30/2012
Comments
                  This data is collected by CBA during annual surveys of banks. This indicator was
(incl. %
                  added retrospectively in ISRs to monitor MSME finance core indicators.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                        IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/01/2009            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   25.00
  2     06/30/2010            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   25.00
  3     01/15/2011            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   30.00
  4     07/27/2011            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   30.00
  5     02/14/2012            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   40.00
  6     08/15/2012            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   49.88
  7     12/29/2012         Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   49.88
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The reason for restructuring was
                                                     to extend the closing date from
                                                     September 28, 2011 to
 03/07/2011       N       S       S          30.00   December 31, 2012 to enable
                                                     absorption of project funds
                                                     following initial slow
                                                     disbursements


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


      1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The preparation of this project took place against the background of the
looming global financial crisis, which was expected to severely affect the Armenian
economy, particularly the banking sector. The global financial crisis posed serious
threats to Armenia’s ability to sustain its economic growth and poverty reduction
achievements of the previous years. The economy contracted by more than 14 percent in
2009 (yoy). The crisis posed significant risks to the banking sector that would limit its
ability to maintain credit to the economy. In an environment of deteriorating economic
conditions, including declining remittances that contribute significantly to consumption
and investment in Armenia, risks faced by banks included: (i) credit risk, due an
increasing share of foreign currency lending to borrowers with no foreign currency
income, which could lead to rising nonperforming loans; and (ii) re-financing risks, as the
resulting global liquidity squeeze would limit external funding, while banks in Armenia
had a heavy reliance on external financing, especially from parent banks1. In view of
these risks, banks were expected to conserve liquidity, inter alia, to enable them to set
aside larger loan loss provisions, as well as to prepare better for the repayment of external
obligations. As expected, by the end of 2009 credit growth slowed down substantially.
Credit grew by less than 10 percent (yoy), compared to more than 40 percent (yoy) in
2008, and largely due to the Government’s and the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) anti-
crisis measures.2
2.      The crisis was of particular threat to access to finance for Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs), which was already limited even prior to its advent. SMEs
constituted 98 percent of enterprises and contributed to about 40 percent of GDP at end-
2008, but received only about a quarter of banking loans. The Enterprise Surveys of 2009
showed that smaller firms had less access to a bank credit line or loan (72 percent of large
firms had access to bank credit line/loan, compared to 50 percent of medium firms, and
35 percent of small firms). About 37 percent of smaller firms identified access to finance
as a major constraint. SMEs were seen as higher risk clients by banks, often lacked the
necessary fixed assets as collateral, and lacked formal financial accounts and business
plans that made it difficult for banks to assess their creditworthiness. Financing
constraints were preventing the SME sector to grow, increase their productivity, and
contribute to economic growth in Armenia.
3.     The authorities were appropriately concerned that the financial crisis would
further exacerbate financing constraints for SMEs. In crisis times, banks were


1
  Starting in 2007, Armenian banks had increased borrowings from external sources, especially from their
foreign parent banks, thus increasing their vulnerabilities to refinancing risks.

2
 The Government used US$180 Million of the US$500 Million loan from Russia for on lending via the
banking sector (including SMEs, corporate, and mortgage loans).

                                                    1
expected to tighten credit especially for SMEs. Due to constrained bank resources in local
currency,3 banks would find it difficult to lend to SMEs in local currency. Most SMEs are
not export-oriented and lack the capacity to hedge borrowings in foreign currency. Thus,
in case of devaluation, SMEs would face difficulties to meet their repayment obligations.
In addition, reduced remittance flows to SMEs were likely to make them even more
dependent on credit from the banking sector.
4.      The project was thus designed to support the Government’s desire to sustain
their economic development priorities. The Government’s socioeconomic program was
presented in the second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, entitled the Sustainable
Development Program and published in October 2008 - just before the impacts of the
global economic slowdown began to unfold. The Government’s program aimed at
deepening competition and fostering private sector development through three key goals:
(i) reducing poverty; (ii) ensuring human development; and (iii) broadening economic
growth. The Access to Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises (AFSME) project was
designed to support the third goal by helping SMEs through a difficult crisis period, when
they would face increasing difficulties of raising finance through the banking system or
the use of remittances. By making medium term finance available through local banks,
the project would help SMEs maintain investments, raising productivity and output, and
prevent job losses or encourage some job expansion.
5.     The project was also consistent with the World Bank’s 2005-2008 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The CAS aimed to foster private sector led growth,
including by strengthening regulation and competition in the financial sector. At the time
of the preparation of the AFSME project, a new 2009 - 2012 (and extended to 2013)
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) was under preparation. The CPS envisaged a two
pillar strategy of addressing vulnerability and strengthening medium-term
competitiveness. The project directly supported the first pillar of addressing vulnerability
by aiming to mitigate banks’ re-financing risks by providing them with a stable source of
long term funding. The Bank designed this project based on previous analytical work,
including a 2005 Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP),4 and on its experience in
designing several credit lines in the world, including in Turkey, Ukraine, Bosnia, India,
and China.




3
  Following the 22 percent depreciation of AMD in early 2009, deposit dollarization increased from 42
percent at end-2007 to 73 percent at end-2009. At end-2012, about 70 percent of banking system’s deposits
remain dollarized.

4
 The Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) is a joint program of the International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank, which provides a comprehensive framework for identifying financial system
vulnerabilities and developmental priorities in participating countries.




                                                   2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.    The Project Development Objective (PDO) was the following: to maintain or
improve Armenian small and medium enterprises’ access to medium term finance.

7.       Key indicators for measuring outcomes were:
        The amount of medium term credit (more than 12 months) granted to SMEs
         supported by PFIs under the project.
        Number of SMEs supported by PFIs under the project.
        Non-performing SME loans/total loans (to be measured in number of loans and
         loan amounts).
        PFIs’ lending to SMEs in overall portfolio increasing by more than a multiplier of
         1 to the amount drawn under the project.

8.    The project included several other indicators to monitor for analytical
purposes only and not to measure project success, namely:
        SME sector contribution as a % of GDP
        SME sector employment as % of total employment
        Share of SME contribution to total taxes
        Annual turnover of sub-borrowers
        Jobs created
        Tax payments by the SME sector

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9.      The PDO was not revised during implementation. Several indicators were
clarified during implementation in Implementation Status and Results (ISR) reports, and
new indicators were added to meet new World Bank corporate requirements for
collecting and monitoring Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) finance core
indicators. The added MSME finance indicators were: (i) volume of Bank support for the
line of credit; (ii) number of active SME loan accounts; (iii) outstanding SME loan
portfolio; (iv) return on assets/equity; and (v) portfolio at risk. Clarifications in indicators
were not introduced through a restructuring because the PDO indicator and the substance
of intermediate results indicators were not changed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The main beneficiaries were Armenian SMEs. All SMEs defined as private
firms with less than AMD 500 million (about US$ 1.2 million) in annual turnover could
participate in the project. PFIs, including banks and nonbank financial institutions, were
secondary beneficiaries.
11.   SMEs would benefit from obtaining medium- and long-term finance to make
productive investments at a time of crisis, and when the banking sector was unable

                                               3
to provide such financial resources to them. With access to medium to longer term
finance, SMEs would be able to replace obsolete equipment with newer technology,
resulting in increased productivity, competitiveness, sales, and ultimately contribute to
economic growth.
12.    PFIs would benefit from access to medium- and long-term funding in local
currency to help them expand their business in medium- and long-term lending. In
addition, the project’s requirements for compliance with prudential banking regulations
would help ensure that PFIs remained financially sound. PFIs would also benefit from
complying with the project’s safeguard and fiduciary requirements, as they would learn
good practices and incorporate them in their own commercial practices.

1.5 Original Components


13.    This was a single component project, providing funds to the CBA, with a
sovereign guarantee from the Republic of Armenia. The CBA would in turn provide
wholesale funding to qualified banks and nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs) for
onlending to SMEs, via the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) – the German Armenian
Fund (GAF).5

1.6 Revised Components

14.     The component was not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

15.     The project was restructured in March 2011 to extend the closing date from
September 28, 2011 to December 31, 2012. The Borrower requested an extension of the
project to enable the absorption of all project funds, following initial slow disbursements.
Disbursements were initially slow partly due to the launch of a parallel SME credit line
facility for US$50 Million made available by the Russian government to the Armenian
government that had fewer requirements than the Bank’s credit line, and partly due to
PFIs’ lack of familiarity with Bank requirements6.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry




5
  The German Armenian Fund was established in 2001 by CBA to administer an SME credit line from
KfW. It has since evolved to administer several other credit lines, including KFW, the World Bank, and
the Government.

6
 By March 2011 (6 months before the project’s closing date), US$30 million had been disbursed to the
project’s designated account, of which about US$ 2 6.8 million had been disbursed to SMEs.

                                                   4
16.    The project was consistent with the Bank’s and the Government’s priorities
to mitigate SME and banking sector vulnerabilities in the context of the global
financial crisis, by providing funding to banks to maintain lending to SMEs. As
mentioned in section 1.1, the project supported the Government’s socioeconomic
development agenda, the CAS for 2005-2008, and the CPS for 2009-2012.
17.    In the design phase, the project took into account lessons learned from credit
line operations in other countries and from other donors’ credit lines in Armenia.
Lessons learned from other countries including in Bosnia, China, India, Turkey, and
Ukraine, were incorporated in the project design7:
         A stable macroeconomic and financial sector framework. Lines of credit are
          more successful in a stable macroeconomic and undistorted financial
          environment. This was the case of Armenia, which entered the crisis with a
          strong macroeconomic framework, positive economic growth, market oriented
          policies, and a relatively strong financial regulatory regime.

         Evaluation of Participating Financial Institutions’ (PFIs) soundness and
          capacity. PFIs should be selected based on sound analysis, including externally
          audited financials. For this project, the eligibility criteria for PFI soundness were
          determined in collaboration with the CBA, and the Bank team conducted detailed
          due diligence assessments of PFIs, ensuring that they were well-capitalized,
          profitable, and had good management capacity and sound risk management
          systems in place.8

         Clear definition of indicators. Clearly defined and transparent indicators for
          monitoring the performance of the credit line and the PFIs’ performance are
          necessary to ensure sound commercial principles are being followed, including
          tracking of non-performing loans (NPLs), capital adequacy ratios and other
          financial indicators. The Bank team defined clear indicators for the performance
          of the credit line and of PFIs’, such as NPLs, capital adequacy ratios,
          profitability ratios, etc.

         Design based on commercial principles. Lines of credit should be based on
          commercial principles, avoiding interest rate subsidies or narrow sector targeting,




7
  Based on the previous experience of donor credit lines in Armenia, the project incorporated additional
features regarding environmental and other safeguards screening, a clear negative list, and the requirement
that all loans would be initially funded from PFIs’ own resources, which would then seek financing through
the PIU. This requirement was put in place to avoid PFIs borrowing from the CBA without on-lending fully
to SMEs.

8
  A two stage due diligence process was followed. In the first phase, banks were screened on the basis of
six quantitative financial indicators (Tier 1/capital assets, NPLs, ROA, ROE, and liquidity ratios). In the
second phase, banks that passed the first stage were assessed according to qualitative measures as well
(compliance with CBA regulations, adequacy of risk management practices, corporate governance practices,
external audit findings, and demonstrated experience and capacity to underwrite and manage SME loans).

                                                    5
         and providing significant flexibility to PFIs. In the AFSME project, onlending
         was designed at commercial terms and market interest rates. The project included
         no restrictions on eligible sectors.

        Flexibility. In credit lines it is important to build in flexibility to facilitate
         adjustments according to changing circumstances on the ground. The project
         included flexible sub-loan lending requirements, both for working capital and
         investment loans, which could be denominated in any currency. 9 In addition,
         flexibility was maintained for introducing changes in the Operations Manual to
         address any implementation impediments.

        Clear responsibilities for the PIU. GAF was assigned clear responsibilities for
         project implementation. These included: (i) help quality and monitor PFIs’
         performance; (ii) disburse wholesale funds to PFIs for on-lending; (iii) provide
         technical assistance to PFIs to comply with project requirements; and (iv)
         monitor output and outcome indicators.

18.     A revolving fund (using PFIs’ repayments and accrued interests) was
established by the CBA, contributing to the sustainability of the project’s objectives
beyond the closing date. The CBA established a revolving fund with an initial five year
maturity to enable PFIs to grant additional loans to SMEs before repayment to the CBA.
As of end-April 2013, a total amount of US$100 million in loans was extended to SMEs
due to the revolving funds (the original loan amount was US$50 million).
19.     Although justified at the time, the CBA implemented the project through its
own PIU (GAF), an apex fund it had created in the late 1990s to intermediate KFW
loans. Since the CBA borrowed in foreign currency and on-lent to PFIs in local currency,
it added risk to its balance sheet due to the foreign currency exposure.10 Using its PIU for
on-lending to PFIs presented a potential conflict of interest between the CBA’s prudential
supervision and market development role. However, at the time of project preparation,
this was the most feasible arrangement, as there were no development banks in the
country, GAF had significant experience in managing credit lines from KFW and
bilateral donors (Table 1), and there was a need to act quickly to support SMEs in a crisis
situation. Lessons learnt from other lines of credit show that development banks are the
most effective intermediaries, followed by central banks, and lastly by PIUs located in
Ministries.




9
 Since most SMEs do not have income in foreign currency, the expectation was that most PFIs loans
would be in local currency.

10
 The CBA is currently considering alternatives for replacing exposures to FX risk through effective
market mechanisms.

                                                6
                                  Table 1. Lending projects managed by GAF


                             Project Name/ Lending                               Amount and
                                                            Funding Source                              AMD            Active Since
                                     Sector                                       Currency



                          SME Support programs with
               1                                                  KfW          EUR 16,800,000       9,206,400,000       Since 1999
                          KfW *

                                                               Russian              AMD
               2          SME Support Project                                                      13,250,000,000       01.12.2008
                                                              Government        13,250,000,000
                          Economic Stability Lending           Russian              AMD
               3                                                                                   74,000,000,000          2009
                          Package, including                  Government        74,000,000,000
                             SME Financing                               AMD 20,000,000,000
                             Mortgage Lending                            AMD 4,500,000,000
                             Consumer Loans                               AMD 2,000,000,000
                             Computer for All Project                     AMD 1,000,000,000
                             Agricultural Lending                         AMD 7,500,000,000
                             Others (Exports, Tourism,
                             Supply Chain, Air                           AMD 39,000,000,000
                             Transportation)

               4          Mortgage Market Financing               KfW          EUR 20,000,000      10,960,000,000          2010

               5          Renewable Energy Lending                KfW          EUR 18,000,000       9,864,000,000          2010

               6          AFSME Project                           WB           USD 50,000,000      20,200,000,000          2009

        Total in AMD                                                                               137,480,400,000
         Total in US$                                                                                340,298,020

      * Since 1999, KfW has allotted the Central Bank a total of EUR 16.8 million in loans under four agreements and
      a total of EUR 2.2 million in grants under three agreements (GAF-MSME-KfW).



20.       Risks were appropriately assessed in the design phase, with overall project
risk assessed as moderate. Risks assessed as moderate included: (i) deteriorating
conditions in the financial sector would further reduce access to finance for SMEs, a risk
partly mitigated by this project11; (ii) PFIs’ credit risk could increase as a result of lending
to SMEs, due to the slowing economy, mitigated by the selection of PFIs with experience
in adequately underwriting and managing SME loans; (iii) the risk that financial
management arrangements at GAF were not adequate due to lack of prior experience
with Bank projects, which was mitigated by training GAF and recruiting additional
staff 12; and (iv) the risk that procurement policies would not be followed adequately,
mitigated by GAF’s guidance to PFIs. Risks assessed as low included: (i) insufficient
implementation capacity of GAF to provide guidance to PFIs, monitor performance, and
ensure compliance with the project’s requirements, mitigated by the fact that GAF had
significant experience managing KFW credit lines and was committed to expanding its




11
     The risk was also mitigated by the selection of PFIs with strong financial fundamentals.

12
   This risk was also mitigated by the fact that the internal auditing f unction is carried by the CBA’s
internal audit department

                                                                     7
capacity; and (ii) the risk that SME loans could raise social and environmental issues,
mitigated by outlining specific requirements in the Operational Manual to be strictly
monitored by GAF.
21.    Some risks materialized to a certain degree mostly during the initial life of
the project; a few additional risks could have also been identified. Risks that partly
materialized during implementation include: (i) PFIs encountered challenges to
adequately comply with safeguard and fiduciary requirements (the safeguards rating for
most of the implementation period was moderately satisfactory); and (ii) initially GAF
did not have sufficient capacity to provide strong oversight to PFIs and adequate
monitoring, although it hired additional staff that greatly improved its capacity. In
addition to the risks assessed at appraisal, the Bank could have also identified the
following potential risks: (i) the risk of competition with other donors’ credit lines that
tend to have easier and more flexible policies and procedures compared to the Bank’s
requirements; and (ii) the risk of the potential conflict of interest of the CBA having both
a prudential supervisory role and market development role, since GAF was a CBA entity
on-lending to PFIs in local currency. The risk of competition with other donors’ credit
lines materialized in the first year of the project, and disbursement of the AFSME credit
line took off only after the disbursement of the competing credit line facility. The
potential conflict of interest in the CBA’s role was partly mitigated by the composition of
GAF’s Supervisory Council. The Supervisory Council, in addition to a CBA member,
included a Ministry of Finance member, a Ministry of Economy member, and KFW
representatives.

2.2 Implementation


22.     The project was implemented over a period of 3 years and 5 months, from
effectiveness in April 2009 (less than 2 months following Board approval in
February 2009) to closing in December 2012. The entire project amount of US$50
million was fully disbursed to the client’s designated account as of May 31, 2012 (7
months before the extended closing date). Overall, the implementation arrangements
worked well, and most issues that affected implementation, particularly with regards to
safeguard and fiduciary issues, were largely resolved in a satisfactory manner.
23.      The project had a slow start, partly due to the launch of a parallel US$50
million SME facility made available by the Government in mid-2009, and partly due
to PFIs’ lack of familiarity with the project’s requirements. 13 This new credit line
facility priced at the same rate as the AFSME project had more flexible conditions, and
therefore disbursement was slower than expected for the AFSME project. With high
demand and the competing facility fully disbursed in less than one year, and with more
banks and one microfinance organization joining the AFSME project in late 2010, the
Bank restructured the project in March 2011 to extend the closing date from September
2011 to December 2012. This enabled PFIs to absorb all the funds, as project objectives


13
  This was part of a loan to the Government of Armenia in the amount of US$500 million to help mitigate
the impact of the global economic crisis.

                                                   8
remained achievable. In fact, project funds were fully disbursed to SMEs by end-August
2012. Another reason for the initial slow disbursement was PFIs’ lack of familiarity with
the project’s safeguard and fiduciary requirements. As PFIs learned the requirements with
the guidance of GAF and the Bank’s team, disbursements quickly improved.
24.     PFIs and sub-borrowers encountered challenges in complying with the
project’s procurement requirements. One of the main procurement issues identified by
stakeholders was the prohibition of financing of used goods. In Armenia, most SMEs
purchase used equipment, rather than more expensive new equipment. This issue was
brought up by stakeholders during implementation support missions, but the Bank chose
not to introduce flexibility on the financing of used goods. This constraint may have
limited investment financing for SMEs (more that 70 percent of loans were for working
capital financing). In future lines of credit, consideration could be given to ensure that
procurement rules take into account the circumstances of small economies like Armenia,
in which the purchase of used goods for small borrowers is a financial necessity. There is
an indication that other donors, such as the ADB and KFW, have more flexible
requirements in place. In the report of the evaluation of the World Bank’s support to
countries during the financial crisis, IEG pointed out that Bank guidelines provide for
procurement to be conducted in accordance with established private sector procurement
methods or commercial practices, and for private borrowers there is no requirement for
procedures to be fully aligned to the Bank’s procedures.14
25.     PFIs also needed guidance on complying with social and environmental
safeguard policies. PFIs had to screen and classify the incoming loan applications, assist
their clients in the preparation of the Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) as
required, prepare Resettlement Screening Forms, provide environmental oversight on the
ongoing sub-projects in the course of financial and technical oversight of their portfolios,
and file the required documents for record. GAF provided quality control and guidance to
the PFIs on the application of safeguards, and reported to the Bank on the environmental
performance of PFIs and their clients as part of the general progress reporting. During
implementation support missions, the Bank provided technical assistance to both GAF
and PFIs on complying with the safeguard procedures.
26.     In order to address some impediments in implementation, the operational
manual was revised several times. Some impediments that were successfully addressed
include, inter-alia,: (i) increasing the maximum loan amount to SMEs from US$180,000
(AMD 60 million) to US$300,000 (AMD 100 million) to satisfy increasing demands
from SMEs for larger loan amounts; (ii) increasing the threshold for requiring
procurement related documents (such as short lists, evaluation reports, etc.) for each
single procurement transaction from initially AMD 3 million, to AMD 10 million, and
eventually to AMD 15 million for investment loans and to AMD 20 million for working
capital loans; (iii) including financial leasing as eligible under the project; (iv) allowing




14
     IEG “The World Bank’s Group Response to the Global Economic Crisis?: Phase II, 2012.


                                                    9
the use of monitoring reports15 for verifying the use of sub-loan funds for the intended
purpose, in cases where invoices or payment receipts were not available; (v) amending
the resettlement requirements to permit SMEs to acquire commercial space if registered
in the cadaster; and (vi) making minor amendments to the environmental sections of the
Operations Manual to make the procedures more user friendly. All these changes were
implemented swiftly because the project design allowed for flexibility.
27.     Significant implementation support by GAF and the Bank was a key factor
in helping address issues and speed up implementation. With local representation on
the ground and frequent implementation support missions, the Bank was proactive in
identifying and resolving issues and providing guidance to the PIU. Stakeholders
expressed an appreciation of Bank support during project implementation. In addition,
GAF was able to play a key role in monitoring compliance and progress, and providing
guidance to PFIs, especially as its capacity improved due to hiring additional staff
specifically assigned to the AFSME project.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.     In the design phase, the project specified four project outcome indicators.
These included: (i) amount of medium term (more than 12 months) loans disbursed; (ii)
number of SMEs financed; (iii) non-performing SME loans/total loans; and (iv) PFIs’
lending to SMEs increasing by more than a multiplier of 1 to the amount drawn under the
project. The table below shows the outcome indicators as specified in the Results
Framework in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). In addition, a table on
Arrangements for Results Monitoring was also provided in the PAD, and added
indicators to be monitored for analytical purposes. The latter include: SME sector
contribution as a % of GDP; SME sector employment as % of total employment; share of
SME contribution to total taxes; annual turnover of sub-borrowers; jobs created; and tax
payments by the SME sector.
                        Table 2. Original Results Framework in the PAD
PDO                                                     Project Outcome Indicators
Maintain or improve Armenian SMEs’ access               The amount of medium term credit granted and
to medium term finance.                                 the number of SMEs supported by PFIs under
                                                        the project.
Intermediate Outcomes                                   Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Outcome 1 : Loans’ Maturity                             Amount disbursed to SMEs:
Provide medium term loans to SMEs financed              Target: disbursement projections.
under the project.
Outcome 2: Quality of the portfolio under the           Non-performing SME loans/total loan: to be
proposed project                                        measured in number of loans as well as
                                                        amounts. Target: <5 percent NPL16.


15
     Monitoring reports had to be signed by the Head of the Credit Department.

16
     NPLs defined by CBA as Category II, III, and IV loans.

                                                      10
Outcome 3: Increase in lending by the                   For all PFIs lending to SME’s in overall
participating PFIs to SMEs                              portfolio increase more than a multiplier of 1 to
                                                        the amount drawn under the project

29.   During implementation, the wording of the following indicators was clarified
and improved in ISRs:
          Cumulative amount of medium term credit granted by the PFIs under the project
           (including revolving funds) – PDO indicator
          Cumulative number of SMEs financed by the PFIs under the credit line (including
           revolving funds)
          Nonperforming loans (more than 30 days delinquent)/total loans17

30.   The following new indicators were added in ISRs, mostly to comply with new
World Bank corporate requirements for monitoring MSME finance indicators, and
thus were not introduced through a formal restructuring:
          Volume of Bank support: Lines of Credit- MSME finance core indicator
          Number of non-performing SME loans (more than 30 days delinquent)/total
           number of loans (NPLs defined by CBA as Category II, III, and IV loans)18
          Number of active loan accounts - MSME finance core indicator
          Outstanding SME loan portfolio – MSME finance core indicator
          Return on Assets/Equity - MSME finance core indicator
          Portfolio at risk – MSME finance core indicator

31.    Project outcome indicators were effectively monitored throughout project
implementation, and they were improved, clarified, and new ones added in ISRs
during implementation. Comprehensive Aide Memoires were prepared detailing
progress on implementation and indicators. In addition to the outcome indicators, Aide
Memoires systematically included progress reports on: outstanding loan portfolio by
PFIs, duration, sectors, region, and loan size, and loans in arrears (see Annex 9).
Financial soundness indicators for the banking sector were also monitored and included
in Aide Memoires (see Annex 10).
32.    However, some indicators were not monitored due to data unavailability. For
example, it was not possible to monitor NPLs for SME loans, and instead the total
amount of NPLs in the banking sector (see Indicator 3 in the datasheet) was monitored.
This indicator should have been reworded in ISRs to reflect what was being monitored. It
was also not possible to monitor the number of active SME loan accounts (added as a




17
     This indicator measured the quality of SME loans advanced by PFIs under the project.

18
  This indicator was added to monitor the quality of SME loans in the entire banking sector for
comparative purposes with PFIs’ portfolios granted under the project. However, SME NPL data was not
available, and thus the project monitored total NPLs in the banking sector.

                                                     11
MSME finance core indicator), as the CBA does not collect such data. This indicator,
however, was not removed from the ISRs.
33.    In addition, the project did not report on indicators that it was going to
monitor for analytical purposes, as identified in the PAD. Partly, the Bank could not
monitor indicators such as SME contributions to GDP or employment because the Small
and Medium Enterprise Development National Center (SME DNC) discontinued collecting
these data. Other indicators, such as SMEs’ annual turnover and jobs created, would have
been useful to monitor in order to report on higher level objectives of SMEs’ improved
productivity and growth.
34.     The Bank and GAF put significant monitoring efforts during implementation.
The Bank undertook reviews of loan files, onsite visits to borrowers, and provided
guidance to GAF on resolving arising issues. GAF maintained sub-loan data, monitored
the eligibility of sub-loans, reported to the Bank on IFRs, sub-loan commitments and
disbursements and sub-loan portfolio performance, provided reports on sample sub-loans
reviewed to indicate compliance with sub-loan eligibility criteria, organized and
documented the results of periodic site visits to borrowers, and carried desk reviews of
sub-loan documentation to verify environmental screenings performed by PFIs. This
monitoring effort was important to report on progress, maintain compliance with project
requirements, as well as identify and resolve issues that affected implementation. As a
result of careful monitoring, the Operational Manual was amended several times to
address some implementation impediments.
35.    The project conducted a project beneficiary assessment. The beneficiary
assessment included an analysis of size, gender, sectoral and geographic distribution of
borrowers, types of activities supported, and borrower satisfaction with the loans. An
evaluation of the impact of a credit line on the performance of SME beneficiaries (such
as productivity and employment), was not undertaken. While such an evaluation is
important, the design of such an evaluation should take into the account the fact that
impact assessments with control groups are difficult to do since the commercial interest
of PFIs is to grant credit to all qualified SMEs. The evaluation framework was kept
simple, although the analysis of the project and SME survey results provided useful
information on the impact of loans for SMEs’ businesses (section 3.6 reports on the main
findings of the survey).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.     Overall, for most of the project’s life during implementation, compliance
with safeguards was moderately satisfactory, and fiduciary compliance largely
satisfactory. The well-developed operational manual and enhanced PIU staff capacity to
provide guidance to PFIs helped ensure that safeguards and fiduciary compliance was
largely adequate. During implementation support missions, Bank staff met with PFIs,
reviewed the files and documents of selected beneficiary SMEs, and visited their projects.
37.    The project’s compliance with the Bank’s safeguard policies was reviewed at
entry to ensure that all potential issues had been taken into account in the project
design. The only safeguard policy adequately triggered at appraisal was OP/BP 4.01
Environmental Assessment and the project was classified into environmental Category F

                                           12
– financial intermediary assessment. Sub-lending to beneficiaries that have acquired
and/or would acquire land for the needs of activities to be supported with the project
proceeds was excluded from eligible expenditures and so was lending for activities that
would require physical relocation and/or would be classified as environmental Category
A. These and other rules for environmental and social screening of sub-loan applications,
their classification, environmental review of application prior to approval, and
environmental monitoring of loan-financed activities in the course of implementation
were detailed in the environmental framework document included in the Operations
Manual of the project.
38.      In general, the borrower followed the established procedures for complying
with environmental safeguard policies, and the project did not cause any adverse
impacts on the environment. Compliance with environmental safeguards was
moderately satisfactory for most of the project’s life during implementation. This is due
to occasional errors in environmental classification of subloan applications, and poor
quality of some Environmental Management Plans developed for higher risk Category B
sub-projects. The majority of sub-loans fell under environment category C, and only a
few under B- (with low impact). In addition, record keeping on the environmental
supervision work performed by the PIU and PFIs experienced some challenges in terms
of the content as well as accuracy of filing. Overall, because of the marginal
environmental risks associated with sub-projects that focused mostly in trade and services,
with a small number of minor scale agricultural activities that carried higher
environmental risks, the project did not cause any adverse impacts on the environment.19
Over the course of the project, there was notable improvement in PFIs’ environmental
diligence, as well as in GAF’s ability to monitor adequately compliance. During
implementation support missions, the Bank highlighted the need to continue improving
the environmental screening reports and site-specific Environmental Management Plans.
Closer to the project’s completion, as the number of sub-loans to agriculture started to
grow, the Bank enhanced implementation support to the GAF and PFIs, to ensure that
their clients had satisfactory arrangements in place for mitigating any environmental risks.
39.     The Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12) was not triggered, however
the Bank put in place measures to avoid any potential risks. The Bank put in place
measures to mitigate any potential risks of involuntary resettlement or negative impacts
on third parties. No resettlement or land acquisition took place. The measures that the
Bank put in place included: (i) requiring PFIs to fill out Resettlement Screening Forms
(as specified in the Operational Manual); (ii) training PIU staff and PFIs to apply the
resettlement screening procedures to every sub-loan application to identify any potential
threats; and (iii) including a resettlement specialist in implementation support missions to
review sub-loans. The findings of the reviews are documented in all Aide Memoires and
ISRs. In most cases, the Resettlement Screening forms were filled out accurately, with
minor errors. In the early life of the project, several subloans were issued to finance



19
  In addition, civil works supported under the project were for renovation of existing buildings and for
small scale reconstruction, with a low risk of environmental pollution.


                                                  13
construction activities without requesting the construction permit. However, this issue
was resolved in subsequent years and PFIs requested official construction permits from
borrowers. Adherence to this requirement would help borrowers avoid future sanctions
for illegal construction. Most PFIs report that a requesting a Construction Permit for
financing construction activities has now become an established practice not only for
loans financed by the AFSME project. This achievement is a relevant indirect outcome of
the AFSME project.
40.     Compliance with procurement policies and procedures was overall
satisfactory. As part of the regular implementation support for the project, targeted
reviews were conducted to ensure compliance with the project’s procurement processes.
The reviews found that no serious deviations were recorded on compliance with
procurement policies during the course of project implementation. At the initial stage of
the project, a weak understanding of the Bank’s procurement requirements and lack of
the PIU’s and PFIs’ experience with World Bank projects, led to some difficulties. A
common shortcoming was the absence of invoices and properly documented evaluation
reports. Several changes were made to the procurement procedures in the Operational
Manual to address some impediments.
41.    Overall the financial management arrangements at GAF, including
accounting, financial reporting, internal controls, budgeting, external audit, and
funds flow, were considered satisfactory. Overall, GAF had adequate internal control
systems in place. The quarterly IFRs for the project were always received on time and
have been acceptable to the World Bank. In addition, generally there were proper
controls at PFIs over subloans.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


42.     The Bank plans to support increasing financial intermediation, notably
access to long term finance, through the planned Access to Long-term Export
Finance Project in FY 2014. The Bank and the Government of Armenia are preparing a
project supporting access to medium and long term finance of export-oriented enterprises
and the development of a public financial institution, the PanArmenian Bank. The
development of this institution could provide a vehicle for the potential transition of parts
of the AFSME portfolio from GAF, and allow the CBA to unwind its exposure to the
associated currency risk. The Bank also plans to seek trust fund financing to help address
the shortcomings that limit the prompt realization of collateral in order to expand access
to credit. Additional technical assistance is also planned to strengthen financial
infrastructure and further develop instruments that are particularly helpful for improving
access to finance for SMEs, such as factoring and leasing. IFC’s current focus on the
financial sector will also continue, including supporting micro and SME finance.
43.     Several donors are also active in Armenia in supporting SME development
and finance. The various donors active in SME development/finance include KFW,
ADB, EBRD, and others. In particular, the ADB has designed a credit line with similar
features to the AFSME project to support SMEs, and especially women-owned SMEs. In


                                             14
addition, the revolving feature of the operation will enable PFIs to continue providing
sub-loans to SMEs borrowers.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

44.     The project remains highly relevant for Armenia’s current development
agenda and is consistent with the Bank’s CPS. The Government’s Development
Strategy for 2012-2025 includes access to finance, especially for SMEs, as a source of
economic growth and job creation as one of the priority areas. 20 The Bank has also
identified access to finance for SMEs as a relevant priority. The recent FSAP of 2012
concluded that MSME finance remains limited and proposed recommendations in various
areas to address obstacles. The new CPS for Armenia for 2014-2017 is currently under
preparation and it is expected to support the Government’s priorities, including fostering
competitiveness and job creation as a key pillar. Since SMEs are the main engine of
growth and job creation,21 the CPS is expected to support an agenda that promotes SME
creation and growth including by improving the business environment, competition, SME
access to finance, skilled labor, and others.
45.     The challenge of banks providing medium to longer term credit to SMEs
(particularly in local currency) when their funding comes mostly from short term
FX deposits, remains as relevant as it was during project preparation. Although
banks are very liquid, they continue to face significant challenges in obtaining longer
term funding in local currency. The crisis of 2009 resulted in declined confidence in the
Armenian dram due to a significant devaluation, and thus depositors prefer to save short
term and in foreign currency. Funding from IFIs, which constitutes about 10 percent of
the banking sector’s total funding, has filled an important maturity and, in some cases,
local currency gap. More than 70 percent of loans to SMEs have been granted from IFI
funding sources, indicating that banks would face significant difficulties to provide
medium to longer term loans without such funding in the short term. The Bank has been
active with technical assistance to address possible longer-term underlying factors,
working on the development of capital markets and institutional investors, as well as
instruments for the counter of foreign exchange risk.



20
   The Government’s strategy outlines the main areas of support for SMEs, including: (i) expanding loan
state guarantees for SMEs that have potential in export, import substitution or knowledge production; (ii)
supporting start-ups with capacity building and skills development, business planning, and ensuring access
to finance; (iii) undertaking programs for promoting businesses among women and young people; (iv)
providing access to finance, through elimination of obstacles and application of adequate management tools
in situations with inadequate collateral and high risks; (v) providing educational and counseling support;
and (vi) providing direct support to start-up SMEs to ensure access to markets and to information (such as
for developing websites, branding, etc.)

21
  During 2008-2011, SMEs created over 100,000 jobs and accounted for about 40 percent of GDP. Under
the Development Strategy, the GoA plans to increase their value added to 60 percent of GDP by 2025.


                                                   15
46.     In addition to credit lines, other instruments are also needed to expand
access to finance for SMEs. These include technical assistance for SMEs on improving
financial statements, technical assistance to PFIs in improving their credit risk assessment
of SMEs, support to the authorities for improving the secured transactions regime, and
for enabling the development of financial instruments that are valuable for SMEs, such as
leasing and factoring. Issues related to financial infrastructure are being addressed by the
Government under the Development Policy Operation (DPO) series.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

47.      The PDO of maintaining or improving Armenian SMEs’ access to medium
term finance was achieved to a high extent. At end-December 2012, the PDO indicator
of the cumulative amount of medium term (more than 12 months) lending disbursed to
SMEs was overachieved. SMEs cumulatively received more the US$ 98 Million through
the revolving credit line (from the target of at least US$ 50 Million, which is the amount
of project funds). On average, medium and long term credit accounts for 98 percent of
the total SME portfolio (both by volume and number of loans). At end-2012, 38 percent
of outstanding sub-loans under the project had maturities of greater than 4 years, 31
percent had maturities of 3-4 years, and 20 percent between 2-3 years. Thus, almost 90
percent of loans had maturities exceeding 2 years. As reported by banks, as a cheaper
source of funding, the credit line is likely to have resulted in reduced interest rates for
SMEs. Another key benefit is that it mitigated FX risk for SMEs and credit risk for banks,
as all loans financed under the AFSME project were issued in local currency, compared
to more than 80 percent of loans to SMEs being in foreign currency.
48.     At end-2012, more than 7,400 loans had been provided cumulatively to SMEs,
through 13 banks and 2 non-bank financial institutions. The number of PFIs
participating in the project doubled to 15 as of end-May 2012. The number of loans
provided to SMEs greatly exceeded the target of 2,500 loans. About 70 percent of loans
were for working capital purposes, 20 percent for investments, and another 10 percent
were for mixed purposes. In addition, the SME portfolio of the PFIs grew by more than
2.4 times since 2008 (the baseline year), from AMD 107 billion in 2008 to AMD 252
billion at end- June 2012.
49.     The quality of project loans is higher than the overall portfolio in the
banking sector. Non-performing loans (more than 30 days delinquent) under the project
(of about 1 percent at end-December 2012) are substantially lower than NPLs in the
banking system (6.6 percent as of end-December 2012). However, this may also reflect
the fact that loans under the AFSME project have a younger life span than loans in the
entire banking sector.
50.     The project had significant positive spillover effects. As PFIs understood better
the project’s safeguard and fiduciary requirements over the course of project
implementation, the commercial practice of PFIs on procurement, environmental
assessment and resettlement also improved. For example, several PFIs that did not have
environmental screening requirements in place adopted these requirements, or they
started to request construction permits for all loans financing construction activities. The
project also contributed to increased capacity of PFIs to monitor borrower performance.

                                            16
In addition, having a World Bank line of credit, helped PFIs obtain financing and
associated technical assistance from other donors.
51.     The analysis resulting from the survey of beneficiaries indicated positive
results for SMEs, although causality can not be established without an impact
evaluation. Almost half of SMEs reported that the loan helped improve or stabilize the
financial situation of their business. More than half of SMEs reported that they were
partly able to increase production volumes. SME borrowers were largely satisfied with
loan terms and conditions, except for the interest rate.22

3.3 Efficiency

52.     The efficiency of the operation is substantial considering that costs involved
in achieving project objectives were reasonable in comparison with the benefits and
value for money. The PAD did not provide a traditional economic and financial analysis
since project costs could not be well defined in advance. Instead, the PAD specified that
the approach taken would be to measure development results in relation to the amounts
intermediated, as shown in the Results Framework. The project invested US$50 million
in project funds, and due to the revolving feature, as of end-2012 more than US$98
million were disbursed to SMEs. Without IFI funding, PFIs report that they would not be
able to provide longer term loans to SMEs, which are crucial to finance investments,
increase their productivity, and contribute to employment and economic growth. In
addition, the project contributed to institutional strengthening benefits that are not
measurable, such as the adoption of certain safeguard requirements by PFIs for their
entire loan portfolio, and not just for the loans financed by the AFSME project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

53.     Considering the high relevance of the project, achievement of PDOs, and
efficiency, the overall outcome rating is satisfactory. The development objectives of
the project were and remain highly relevant for Armenia and the Bank’s development
agenda in the country. Established indicators were overachieved. The project had positive
spillover effects in terms of capacity building in PFIs and improved commercial practices
with regards to safeguard and fiduciary policies. Given some difficulties in the pace of
implementation in the early life of the project requiring an extension of the closing date,
the project is rated as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts




22
  The project beneficiary assessment indicated that the average growth of employment of the project’s
beneficiaries is between 5-15%.


                                                   17
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.     Specific poverty, gender, and social development indicators were not
collected during and after the implementation of the project. Although the project
was not designed to deal with poverty or gender issues, it is likely that it contributed to
positive results on social and poverty outcomes given the significant importance of SMEs
for employment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

55.     The project contributed to improvements in the PFIs’ commercial practices
with regards to safeguards and fiduciary policies. PFIs built capacity to assess and
mitigate safeguard risks. As noted in previous sections, PFIs adopted good practice
safeguard policies for their entire loan portfolio. For example, they started to require
environmental screening forms from all borrowers and to ask for construction permits
before issuing loans for financing construction.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

56.    None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

57.     A beneficiary survey was conducted in mid-2012 demonstrating significant
satisfaction by SME borrowers with PFIs and loan terms and conditions. The
findings of the survey are indicative as an impact evaluation with a control group was not
conducted. The assessment of SME beneficiaries showed that due to loans received they
were greatly (43%) or partly (50%) able to improve or stabilize the financial situation of
their business during the financial crisis. Moreover, SMEs were greatly (16%) or partly
(63%) able to expand volume of their production/services during the same period.
According to the survey’s results, more than half of SMEs reported that they were greatly
or partly able to expand their market and build competitive advantages. Also, more than
half of SMEs were able to produce or provide more competitive and higher quality goods
or services. SME borrowers were largely satisfied with the maturity (69%), loan amount
(66%), repayment schedule (78%), and currency (98%) of the loans received. The main
concern expressed by SMEs was high interest rates, with more than half of them
perceiving interest rates to be high.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

58.    The risk to the development outcome is moderate. Stagnation of euro area
growth could lead to global stagnation, with Russia likely affected. This would negatively
impact the demand for Armenia’s exports and would lead to reduced remittances flows,
leading to another contraction of the economy. In such an environment, banks would
become cautious of lending to SMEs, which are considered particularly risky. In addition,


                                            18
in case of renewed financial turbulence, banks would feel uncertainty about the reliability
of external financing sources and could tighten lending, including for SMEs.
59.     In addition, banks’ ability to provide medium to longer term lending to
SMEs relies significantly on continued support by donors. At end-June 2012, more
than 70 percent of banks’ SME lending was funded with IFI funding sources. Therefore,
if donors’ appetite for supporting the banking sector with credit lines diminishes, the risk
that banks will not be able to provide medium to long term loans to SMEs, especially in
local currency, is substantial.
60.     In order to enhance access to finance for SMEs, the Government is also
stepping up efforts on several reforms. In particular the credit registry is being
upgraded, the secured transactions regime is being enhanced and the draft leasing and
factoring laws are being prepared. Finally, structural reforms to deepen the capital market
are underway. These reforms are being supported by the DPO series.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

61.     The project’s design was compatible with the Government’s development
strategy and the CAS, the development agenda was highly relevant in the context of
the financial crisis, and the project built in lessons learned from other credit lines.
The project prepared a well-developed operational manual that contributed to effective
project implementation and to PIU compliance with Bank procedures.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

62.     Overall, effective implementation support by the Bank helped ensure
successful project implementation. The Bank was proactive in addressing
implementation obstacles and responding quickly. In its feedback, the CBA and GAF
report effective implementation support by the Bank, and PFIs also reported that frequent
visits by the Bank team helped them understand project requirements better. With the
exception of a few areas (such as the “used goods? prohibition), stakeholders expressed
an appreciation for the flexibility of the Bank team in adjusting project requirements to
the local circumstances. The following are key elements that contributed to effective
implementation support:
      A private and financial sector specialist was based on the field providing the
       client with quick ongoing support to arising issues.       Similarly, the PIU


                                            19
       appreciated the local presence of the fiduciary staff in the region (Georgia), or in
       Yerevan.
      The Bank led frequent implementation support missions that included meetings
       with PFIs, GAF, and sub-borrowers to inquire on the effectiveness of the loan
       process and the impact of financing on their business. Summaries of field visit
       discussions were documented in Aide Memoires. The Bank team conducted about
       7 formal implementation support missions over the project’s life of 3 years and 8
       months.
      Aide Memoires were comprehensive, including progress reports with indicators
       on loan performance and PFIs’ financial performance indicators. Seven ISRs were
       filed regularly between April 2009 and December 2012. The ratings for project
       components and project management were consistent with the performance of the
       project.

63.     The good quality of supervision contributed to the institutionalization of
good practices for PFIs. PFIs benefited from building capacity in managing
environmental risks and any potential involuntary resettlement risks. As noted, some PFIs
reported that they now require environmental screening forms from borrowers and also
ask for construction permits before issuing loans for financing construction.
64.     The Bank could have attempted to monitor indicators specified in the PAD
for analytical purposes, such as SME turnover and job creation, to gauge the impact
of the project on higher level objectives. In addition, an impact assessment of the
project would have added significant value, although a simple assessment and an SME
survey was undertaken.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

65.    The overall Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and quality of
supervision is Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance


   (a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

66.    The Government’s performance was Satisfactory. The Government was very
supportive of the project’s objective to increase access to medium term finance for SMEs,
which was a priority area in its development agenda. The Government provided a
sovereign guarantee to the CBA. In addition, the Government has put in place measures
to maintain macroeconomic stability and structural reforms to improve the business
environment, which are crucial for the long term objectives of SME development.

                                           20
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

67.     The performance of the implementing agency was Satisfactory. Overall, GAF
performed effectively its responsibilities of coordination, information management,
monitoring, and reporting, especially after increasing its capacity by hiring additional
staff specifically assigned to this project. GAF pro-actively provided guidance to PFIs
and conducted trainings on project requirements. During the ICR mission, PFIs reported a
high level of satisfaction with GAF’s professionalism.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

68.    Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

69.     Project development objectives for addressing a development priority should
be kept realistic. The PDO of maintaining or improving SMEs’ access to medium term
finance was kept simple and realistic. This is important given the limitations of credit
lines as financing instruments, and especially given that the project was designed in the
context of uncertainty regarding the magnitude of the impacts of the global financial
crisis on the Armenian economy and the banking sector.
70.      Onerous safeguard and fiduciary requirements slow down project
implementation. Reevaluating safeguard and fiduciary requirements in the context of
credit lines and designing information requirements to minimize compliance costs, while
serving the safeguard objectives, would help ensure successful implementation. In
addition, the presence of other IFI credit lines or of bilateral donors, which tend to have
fewer conditions in place and less strict fiduciary and safeguard requirements, can slow
down the implementation of World Bank credit lines, as it happened in the case of
Armenia. Thus, it may be helpful for the Bank to compare its credit line requirements
with other IFI requirements, and learn from other donors’ experiences with credit lines.

71.     A solid monitoring and evaluation framework helps demonstrate the
sustainability and long-term impact of credit lines. An impact evaluation could have
demonstrated the impact of the credit line on SME beneficiaries, although such as an
impact assessment with a control group is difficult to undertake since it is in the
commercial interest of PFIs to grant credit to qualified SMEs. Thus, an impact evaluation
with a variety of methods should be incorporated in the project design phase.

72.     Flexibility during project design and implementation is critical to successful
outcomes. As noted, the flexibility of changing some procurement procedures made a
difference in speeding up project implementation. Several changes were introduced in the
Operational Manual. However, other procurement requirements, such as the prohibition

                                            21
of financing “used goods? were not changed, and made it difficult for PFIs to extend
investment finance.
73.     Significant capacity building of the PIU and PFIs to comply with the
project’s requirements is essential before the project begins and early in its
implementation. The Bank and GAF put significant effort to raise the capacity of PFIs
to understand the safeguard and fiduciary requirements by conducting regular trainings.
As a result of early identification of issues, the Bank was able to resolve them in a
satisfactory manner early on and make changes to the Operational Manual.
Implementation support missions are most effective when they include regular visits to
PFIs and SME project sites. Implementation support missions identified opportunities for
improving the project based on regular interactions with PFIs and SMEs. As the project
progressed, the implementation support missions found less errors or inconsistencies in
documentation and reporting.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

74.    None.

(b) Cofinanciers

75.    Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

76.    None.




                                          22
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                       millions)

            Total Baseline Cost          50,000,000            50,000,000        100%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                  0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                  0.00          0.00
             Total Project Costs         50,000,000            50,000,000        100%
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                  0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          125,000               125,000        100%
     Total Financing Required            50,000,000            50,000,000        100%




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              0.00         0.00         .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       50.00         50.00      100%
and Development




                                               23
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The project had a single component, and quantitative outputs are shown in the table
below.23
                                                                                        Actual Value at
Indicator Name                                                     Baseline   Target    Completion
Project Development Objective Indicator

Cumulative amount of medium term credit granted by the PFIs
under the project (including revolving funds)                          0       50 Mln        98 Mln
Intermediate Results Indicators
Volume of Bank support: Lines of Credit - SME                          0       50 Mln        50 Mln
Cumulative number of SMEs financed by the PFIs from the credit
line (including revolving funds)                                       0        2500          7474
Number of non-performing SME loans (more than 30 days
delinquent) / total number of loans 1                                 7.6        5.0           6.4
Non-performing loans (more than 30 days delinquent) / total
loans (for loans advanced by PFIs under project)                      7.0        5.0           1.1
Number of times PFIs' total SME lending increased compared to
the amount drawn under the project                                     1         >1           5.0
Outstanding SME Loan Portfolio                                      155 Mln     N/A         362 Mln
Return on Assets                                                      2.4       N/A            1.4
Portfolio at Risk - SME (loans overdue by 91-180 days for entire
portfolio of bank PFIs)                                               1.2       N/A          2.2
Number of active loan accounts - SME                                          Not measurable
1/ SME NPLs data not available. Indicator measures NPLs in the
entire banking sector




23
   The following were MSME finance core indicators, which were included for monitoring purposes only:
(i) Volume of Bank support: Lines of Credit; (ii) Outstanding SME loan portfolio; (iii) Return on Assets;
(iv) Portfolio at Risk; and (v) Number of active loan accounts.


                                                     24
      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


N/A




                        25
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                    Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Anarkan Akerova              Counsel                                  LEGCF
Alexander Astvatsatryan      Senior Procurement Specialist            ECSO2
                             Lead Financial Sector Specialist, Task
Michael Edwards                                                       ECSPF
                             Team Leader
Karen Grigorian              Senior Operations Officer                OPSRS
Nelli Khachatryan            Program Assistant                        ECCAR
Isfandyar Zaman Khan         Sr Financial Sector Spec.                ECSF2
Bikki Randhawa               Manager                                  CAISK
Tatiana Segal                Operations Officer                       ECSF1
Arman Vatyan                 Sr Financial Management Specialist       ECSO3
Supervision/ICR
Alexander Astvatsatryan      Senior Procurement Specialist            ECSO2
Marga O. De Loayza           Temporary                                ECSPF
Vardan Eminyan               Consultant                               ECCAR
Karen Grigorian              Senior Operations Officer                OPSRS
Zenaida S. Kalinger          Temporary                                ECSPF
Darejan Kapanadze            Senior Environmental Specialist          ECSEN
Edgar Karapetyan             E T Consultant                           ECSF2
Lela Shatirishvili           Consultant                               ECSPF
Arman Vatyan                 Sr Financial Management Specialist       ECSO3


   (d) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
               2009                                    27.13                      182.08
              Total:                                   27.13                       182.08
          Supervision/ICR
               2009                                      9.72                       32.23
               2010                                     21.48                      100.93
               2011                                     27.52                      135.78
               2012                                     10.60                       94.50
               2013                                     16.96                       48.62
              Total:                                    86.28                      412.06




                                               26
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


An impact assessment study was conducted by Alpha Plus Consulting in May-June 2012.
It consisted of desk research and analysis of the AFSME project database provided by the
project management unit (GAF PMU) complemented by a survey of project beneficiaries
in the form of personal interviews with their management and/or owners.

The first part of the study is based on the analysis of the overall project database,
consisting information on more than 3400 AFSME project loans (which slightly exceeds
the number of borrowers because of repeat loans) through only a few selected data fields,
such as financing institution, loan parameters (amount, date of disbursement, amount past
due, currency etc.), legal status, location, and field of activity.

In total, 13 financial institutions have become implementing partners to the AFSME
project, including 11 banks and 2 non-bank credit organizations. However their
participation activity varies significantly, with only two institutions (Farm Credit
Armenia and Procredit Bank) taking up to 60% of total number of loans disbursed. The
distribution of the loan portfolio by volume is more even with five institutions having
each a share between 10% and 20% of the overall loan portfolio totaling some $50.3
million.

Yerevan, the capital of the country, takes one fourth of the number of project loans, but
more than 40% in terms of the volume of loans. Among the ten regions outside Yerevan,
Gegharkunik, Aragatsotn and Tavush benefit from the Project disproportionally less,
having the stake of less than 3% of the loan portfolio (both by volume and number of
loans) each.

Despite some methodological limitations in collecting the project data on loan utilization
purposes, the available information suggests that more than 70% of loans were borrowed
with the main purpose of increasing working capital, including purchase of raw materials,
goods for reselling etc.

Commerce (retail and wholesale) and agriculture are vastly predominant in AFSME
project financing. Commerce takes up to 60% of total loan volume and slightly less than
the half of the loan quantity, whereas agriculture with its smaller average loan size takes
about 20% of total loan volume and about 43% of total number of loans.

The average loan size (mean) within the AFSME project is around 6.0 million AMD,
which equals to about $14500. However, detailed analysis of the average loan size
concludes that the number of smaller-sized loans is unevenly greater, with loans below
$12000 in size taking up to 70% of the entire number of loans.

The second part of the study brings together the analysis of the results of beneficiary
survey, which involved interviews with the top management or business owners of 340
randomly and systematically selected project beneficiaries (about 10% of the total project
beneficiaries).

                                            27
One of the most obvious findings of the beneficiary assessment is that partner financial
institutions are not inclined to finance start-up businesses within AFSME Project, given
that about 42% of borrowers started their current businesses earlier than 10 years ago.
The share of start-ups is less than 3%. It is also related to their credit history, since for
only a quarter of the beneficiaries the current loan is their first business loan from a
commercial bank or a microfinance institution, more than 30% have borrowed 1-3 more
times in the past, and about one tenth of the beneficiaries have borrowed more than 10
times by now.

As to the type of activities, which is a much comprehensive picture compared to the Field
of activity data collected in the project database, about half of the project beneficiaries are
engaged in four types of activities, including retail (foodstuff and household goods), plant
growing (crops, vegetables, fruits), retail (shoes, clothes and other non-food stuff) and
livestock breeding (milk and meat sale). This is roughly consistent with the overall
country economic activity pattern.

To the question if they plan to start producing a new product/providing new services or to
stop any of existing products/services during next year, one third of the beneficiaries
clearly indicated that they would start new or expand their businesses, while about 70%
do anticipate any major change.

It is noteworthy that AFSME Project seems to be contributing to building up and
strengthening the bank-client relationship, since almost 20% of the clients mentioned the
strengthening traditional ties with their current lender as the primary reason for
borrowing specifically from that financial institution. The majority (some 45%) of course
came in because of favorable financial and other conditions, but only 4% of beneficiaries
have chosen their current lender because they had been rejected by other financial
institutions.

The vast majority of borrowers (more than 85%) are unaware of where the money they
have borrowed come from. Only 2% of the borrowers know that the Project is financed
by the World Bank. This cannot be treated as a negative observation, since the Project
has no particular acknowledgment component.

The observed satisfaction level with the loan components (except the interest rate) is
quite high. Particularly, almost 70% of the beneficiaries are satisfied with the loan
maturity and loan amount, more than 80% are fine with the negotiated repayment
schedule and the speed of servicing and disbursement. It is only the interest rate that is
perceived as too high for almost 55% of the beneficiaries.

One of the critical components of the survey was to identify if the Project loans have had
enough impact on the beneficiary businesses. For almost half of the beneficiaries the
AFSME loan greatly helped improve or stabilize financial situation of their businesses.
Nevertheless, increasing production volume or expanding markets with the help of the
loan was greatly possible only for about 15% beneficiaries, with more than half though

                                              28
being able to do so partially. Unfortunately, the Project very little contributes to the
export promotion, for most beneficiaries involved in local commercial or agricultural
activities the question was just irrelevant. For others, this particular loan scheme mainly
does not serve as an opportunity to enter foreign markets. About 40% of beneficiaries at
least partly were able to optimize their costs and become more competitive compared to
their rivals in the market. With different values across sectors beneficiaries function in,
the average growth of the permanent employment due to the AFSME loans was in the
range of 5-15%.

As to the gender aspect of the Project, the majority of the borrowers (60%) indicate that
the main decision maker in their business is a male. Women are formal directors or CEOs
of the businesses in 25% of cases. The third big share was the group of borrowers who
assured that the main decision maker is female and presented as informal manager (not
owner), 13% of the borrowers.

The beneficiary assessment gives a much deeper picture about the status, key indicators,
efficiency and impact of the AFSME project compared to the plain analysis of the project
database. However, the analysis presented in this study should be treated with two major
reservations. Firstly, the number of respondents interviewed should be more to provide
greater preciseness and depth of the analysis. And secondly, most of the loans have been
disbursed and utilized by borrowers relatively recently, which implies that not sufficient
time has elapsed for a solid analysis of the loan impact. It is highly recommended that
another survey is commissioned using basically the same methodology, which would
allow for deeper and more precise analytical results.




                                            29
               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


No workshop was held.




                                     30
           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


   The borrower considers the project highly successful and has two comments on the draft
   ICR: (i) with regards to the statement on the potential conflict of interest, the CBA
   commented that it does not select PFIs for on-lending based on its own judgment and
   only provides the list of financial institutions that meet a group of predefined criteria set
   by the World Bank; and (ii) with regards to its exposure to FX risk, the CBA commented
   that it is currently actively considering alternatives for replacing existing exposures to FX
   risk by effective market mechanisms.

   Below is the original program evaluation of the borrower.

   1. Assessment of the operation’s objective, design, implementation and operational
   experience

   1.1 Operation’s objective

          Within the framework of the anti-crisis measures in the Republic of Armenia and
   aiming to foster small and medium entrepreneurship development in RA, an agreement
   was signed between the Central Bank of Armenia and the International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development on February 26, 2009, on the subject of providing USD
   50 million. The main objective of the GAF-AFSME program was to maintain and enlarge
   the availability of loans to small and medium enterprises, thus fostering their growth and
   the economy in general.

   1.2 Operation’s design

           The project started with the phase of the so-called “retroactive financing?. During
   this phase the partner banks were given a chance to select those loans provided within the
   framework of “GAF-MSME-Gov? loan program financed by the RA Government, which
   corresponded to the standards of the GAF-AFSME Program, to redeem the obligations
   towards the Republic of Armenia at the expense of that program and to take up
   obligations under the World Bank loan program. The retroactive financing phase was
   concluded in 2009 and the phase of refinancing of new loans was launched.
           At the first stage of GAF-AFSME Program development there were only 8
   partner banks, but gradually the interest toward it has increased and 4 more banks and 2
   credit organizations joined GAF-AFSME Program. As of the closing date of the Program
   there were 12 partner banks and 2 credit organizations that actively were participating in
   GAF-AFSME Program.
                Outstanding Portfolio by Partner Financial Institutions as of 31.12.2012
            PB                Number of loans                        Volume of loans in AMD
Armbusinessbank                 26            0.54%                           437,911,833      2.14%
ACBA-Cr. Agr. Bank             248            5.13%                         2,414,199,851     11.78%
Armeconombank                   58            1.20%                           301,715,876      1.47%
Ararat bank                    539           11.15%                         2,953,805,768     14.41%


                                                  31
Areximbank                     172          3.56%                    1,603,291,401          7.82%
Byblos Bank                      6          0.12%                      281,682,035          1.37%
Converse Bank                  123          2.54%                      968,763,626          4.73%
CARD AgroCredit                240          4.96%                      940,745,366          4.59%
Farm Credit Armenia          1,859         38.44%                    2,649,710,915         12.92%
HSBC                            21          0.43%                      380,772,684          1.86%
Ineco Bank                     156          3.23%                    1,533,038,752          7.48%
ProCredit bank               1,109         22.93%                    4,086,843,281         19.93%
VTB-Armenia Bank               260          5.38%                    1,726,597,517          8.42%
Ardshininvestbank               19          0.39%                      222,240,082          1.08%
Total                        4,836          100%                    20,501,318,987          100%



   1.3 Operation’s implementation and experience

           GAF-AFSME Program enables the partner banks to apply for refinancing of loans
   given in both AMD and USD. In 2009, the sum total of the loans given to the partner
   banks by the Central Bank of Armenia within the framework of GAF-AFSME Program
   was AMD 2.6 billion. With this sum, 465 loans were disbursed to the target group by the
   partner banks. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding loan portfolio of the partner
   banks was AMD 1.8 billion which included 395 loans. The return of the loans was about
   99%. In comparison with 2009 in 2010 the total sum of the loans given to the partner
   banks within the framework of the program was AMD 2.8 billion that is by 8.4% higher
   than that of in 2009, and the number of loans disbursed by the banks increased by 52%
   totaling to 976. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding loan portfolio of the partner
   financial institutions (PFIs) was AMD 5.7 billion, which is three times higher than that of
   in 2009; and the number of loans was 1,094 that is 2.7 times more than in 2009. As of
   December 31, 2011 the outstanding portfolio of PFIs was 13.3 billion; and the number of
   loans was 2,707. As of December 31, 2012 the outstanding loan portfolio of PFIs was
   AMD 20.5 billion with 4,836 of loans disbursed (chart 1). Although there was a
   considerable increase in GAF-AFSME Program portfolio it does not account on its
   quality, having the loan portfolio return at the same 99% level.




                                               32
                                   Chart 1. Outstanding portfolio by volume

                                             Outstanding portfolio (volume)
            25,000,000,000


            20,000,000,000


            15,000,000,000


            10,000,000,000


             5,000,000,000


                        -            31-Jul-10




                                     31-Jul-11




                                     31-Jul-12
                                   31-Mar-10
                                   31-May-10




                                   31-Mar-11
                                   31-May-11




                                   31-Mar-12
                                   31-May-12
                                    31-Oct-09
                                   31-Dec-09



                                    30-Jun-10


                                    31-Oct-10
                                   31-Dec-10



                                    30-Jun-11


                                    31-Oct-11
                                   31-Dec-11



                                    30-Jun-12


                                    31-Oct-12
                                   31-Dec-12
                                   31-Aug-09

                                   30-Nov-09



                                    30-Apr-10


                                   31-Aug-10

                                   30-Nov-10



                                    30-Apr-11


                                   31-Aug-11

                                   30-Nov-11



                                    30-Apr-12


                                   31-Aug-12

                                   30-Nov-12
                                    30-Sep-09


                                    31-Jan-10
                                    28-Feb-10




                                    30-Sep-10


                                    31-Jan-11
                                    28-Feb-11




                                    30-Sep-11


                                    31-Jan-12
                                    29-Feb-12




                                    30-Sep-12


                                    31-Jan-13
                                    28-Feb-13
2. Assessment of the outcome of the operation

        The distribution of loan portfolio by the regions of Armenia (chart 2) shows that
by the number of disbursed loans top three regions are Yerevan, Armavir and Ararat,
around 23%, 23% and 15% respectively. The rest of the loan portfolio 39% comes to the
other regions, the highest weight in which belongs to Kotayk and Shirak totaling to 8%.
The regional distribution of the loans by volume was nearly the same with difference
only in proportion: the top three regions are again Yerevan, Armavir and Ararat with
40%, 13% and 12% respectively.

         Chart 2. Loan portfolio breakdowns by region as of December 31, 2012

                        By number                                                      By volume
                                                                                        Aragacotn
                            Aragacotn            Ararat                                    2%     Ararat
                                                                                                      Gegharkun
                               3%                 15%               Yerevan                        12%    ik
     Yerevan
                                                                      40%                                3% Armavir
       23%                                           Armavir
Tavush                                                  23%                                                  13%
  1%



Sjunik                                                                                                      Kotayk
  5%                                               Gegharkun Vajoc-Dzor                              Lori
 Vajoc-Dzor
         Shirak                                        ik                     Sjunik   Shirak                7%
                                        Kotayk                   2% Tavush                           9%
     4% 8%                  Lori                      3%                        3%      7%
                            7%           8%                           2%




2.1 Program Portfolio Breakdown by Sector

                                                               33
       The Program portfolio breakdown by activities of the borrowers showed that by
the volume of disbursed loans 56.6% accounts for trade, 19% for agriculture. The
remaining 24.4% is distributed among the segments of production, services, construction
and other. In case the loans breakdown by the number of disbursed loans the major
portion comes to agriculture with 45.5% and trade with 42.9%. Only a small portion
11.6% of the disbursed loans by number comes to other segments of production, services,
building and other (chart 3).

          Chart 3. Loan portfolio breakdown by sector as of December 31, 2012
                       by number   Other                        Trade      by volume
  Trade                            3.2%                         56.6%
  42.9%

                                                                                              Other
                                                                                              6.3%




                                                  Services
    Services                       Agriculture     4.6%                                Agricultur
                                                             Productio
     2.6% Production Building        45.5%                               Building          e
                                                                 n
             5.4%                                                         1.6%          19.0%
                      0.3%                                     11.9%




2.2 Program Portfolio Distribution by Purpose

       The major part of the loans (by number) 70.04% were disbursed for increasing the
working capital, including purchase of raw materials, goods for reselling etc. For the
fixed assets in terms of production equipment (17.58%), construction (0.54%), repairing
premises (0.43%) only 18.55% of the funds are disbursed. The other part of the loans by
number 10.32% is directed toward the mixtures of the fixed assets and working capital
without any specification on the exact proportions of the latter’s. For the rest 0.01% of
disbursed loans the borrowers mentioned various purposes, which were grouped in “other?
category. The same distribution in terms of proportions was observed for the volume of
disbursed loans (chart 4).




                                                 34
       Chart 4. Loan portfolio breakdown by purpose as of December 31, 2012

                By number                                               By volume                Purchase of
                                     Purchase of                                                 transport
                                     transport
                                                         65.25%                                  Construction
    70.04%                           Construction

                            10.32%                                                      10.37%   Production
                                     Production
                                                                                                 equipment
                                     equipment
                                                                                                 Repairing
   0.43%                             Repairing
                                                                                        2.54%    permises
                            1.01%    permises
     17.58%                                              18.78%                       0.36%
                                                                              1.86%              Working
                   0.54% 0.08%       Working         0.85%                                       capital
                                     capital




2.3 Program Portfolio Distribution by Maturity

         As we can see from the chart 5 the distribution of the program portfolio by
number the main portion of the loans 38.73% have maturity from 2 to three years, the
second large portion 25.10% comes to the loans with 3-4 years of maturity and the third
large portion 17.27% comes to the loans with 1.5-2 years of maturity. For the portfolio
distribution by the volume of the disbursed loans the picture is a little bit different. The
biggest portion of the loans 38.19% comes to the loans with the longest maturity more
than 4 year. The second large portion 30.91% comes to the loans with 3-4 years maturity,
and the third large portion 20.01% comes to the loans with 2-3 years maturity. So, the
distribution is just in a reversed way from the longest matured loans to the shortest ones.
From the chart below we can conclude that the main portion of the loans is invested in
long-term period that partially speaks about the effective utilization of the program
financial resources by sub-borrowers. The long-term loans mostly are the product of the
program conditions, particularly 5-year maturity loans disbursed to the partner financial
institutions.


      Chart 5. Loan portfolio breakdown by maturity as of December 31, 2012

                By number                                                By volume
                                         1-6                                                           1-6
                                         months                                                        months
                                         6 - 12                                30.91%
                                                                                                       6 - 12
                   25.10%                months                                                        months
                                         12 - 18           20.01%                                      12 - 18
      38.73%                             months                                                        months
                                         18 - 24                                           38.19%      18 - 24
                                         months               6.57%                                    months
                  17.27%                 24 - 36                                                       24 - 36
                                         months                                                        months
                                    0.02%
                                 1.30%                                                                 36 - 48
                             3.62%        13.96%                                                       months
                                                           3.30%      0.03%
                                                         0.98%



                                                    35
3. Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with the special emphasis on lessons learned that
may be helpful in the future

       If we consider GAF PMU disbursed amounts (chart 2) it would be clear that GAF-
AFSME Program pace at the beginning was rather slow that was a subject to our
considerations. First two months disbursements were within the framework of
Retroactive Financing. GAF-AFSME Program disbursements began in December 2009.
As we can see the pace was very slow taking into considerations the seasonal effects also
that were caused by the sector itself.

                     Chart 2. GAF PMU Disbursements 2009-2012

                                      GAF PMU Disbursements
               2,500,000,000.00

               2,000,000,000.00

               1,500,000,000.00

               1,000,000,000.00

                500,000,000.00

                             -
                                                             May-10




                                                                                                 May-11
                                                                                                          Aug-11



                                                                                                                                     May-12
                                  Aug-09




                                                                      Aug-10




                                                                                                                                              Aug-12
                                           Nov-09
                                                    Feb-10



                                                                               Nov-10
                                                                                        Feb-11



                                                                                                                   Nov-11
                                                                                                                            Feb-12




       From our sight it was necessary to find out the main biases in a way of the
Program implementation. We have performed some kind of research among the PFIs to
have a feedback on the biases of GAF-AFSME Program implementation in practice in
2010.

        First of all it was related to the procurement of second hand assets as the majority
of the PFIs stated the fact that the loan amounts would be distributed with the higher pace
and volumes that would have a considerable effect on their loan portfolios. As an option
of the second hand inclusion into the Program the PFIs offer to present as an evidence of
the fair pricing the details of the procured items on electronic sites with comparative
prices and other alternatives. In that case, it would be rather reasonable acquisition.

       The other problem was related to the procurement documentation (particularly,
invoices, payment orders, accounts transactions) for micro and small loans and also
construction loans. In most of the cases such kind of loans utilization is based on cash
operations. Sometimes it takes too long to collect the mentioned documentation for
refinancing approve by GAF PMU; in many other cases PFIs cannot give the required
documentation, as they are unavailable (developing markets patterns).

                                                                      36
       Another problem that could be marked was real estate procurement, as there are
many cases when real estate should be procured for commercial purposes (trade) and the
previous use of that real estate was for the same purpose but the formal documentation at
Real Estate Agency is not for social use.

       And the last problem mentioned by the PFIs was comparative prices analysis for
the loans exceeding AMD10mln. Sometimes sub-borrowers could not present such kind
of analysis and it takes too long to prepare them. From their point of view for SME sector
on the stage of its development it is not reasonable enough to require them, as most of
them have their own suppliers and do not need any kind of analysis for selecting the right
ones.

        From the stated above it could be concluded that the main problem with the funds
disbursement slow pace was in the requirements of GAF-AFSME Program that for
Armenian reality in the conditions of developing economy, especially SME sector
development first steps, are too strict. Although during GAF-AFSME Program
implementation many of the requirements were changes and became more liberal they
still were bothering the PFIs and raise many biases for the funds distribution. In terms of
the dynamics of the GAF-AFSME Program further development it could be stated that
many of the biases had just some kind of cultural or traditional nature. It was mostly
related with the procedures of loan disbursements by PFIs, to be more precise, with the
Armenian mentality both the borrowers and PFIs. That is why the liberalization
influenced only partially the dynamics of the Program. It takes almost one year to root the
new culture and eliminate that kind of biases from the way of the GAF-AFSME Program
implementation. There were organized several seminars and trainings for PFIs by GAF
PMU for GAF-AFSME Program requirements clarification.

       Starting from the mid of 2011 the picture has changed and the disbursements were
increased reaching to AMD 2,389,231,262.4 by December, 2011. GAF PMU
disbursements in terms of average figures had increased 2.4 times in 2011and 1.2 times in
2012. So, it is obvious that GAF-AFSME Program became attractive for the PFIs and got
new pace of its development. By the end of August, 2012 the funds were fully disbursed
even satisfying the mentioned month loan applications of the PFIs only partially. The
disbursements of October were at the account of GAF-AFSME Program revolving fund.

4. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co financers, or of other partners
during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

        The Bank’s performance during the preparation and implementation stages was
highly satisfactory. During the preparation and implementation of the project the Banks
staff had a very cordial relationship and issues relating to the implementation of the
project were resolved effectively. The Bank’s policy was very flexible and in many
aspects it was adapted to the Armenian reality.




                                            37
5. Information on the economic conditions in which the operation was implemented
and the benefits of the Program.

          The SME sector is considered to be one of the most important directions of state
economic policy. The contribution of the SME sector to GDP is around 46% that is why
it still remains the dead center of the economic stability and sustainable growth.

        Currently there are a lot of ongoing projects that are aiming to develop SMEs not
only financially, but also technologically (IT, infrastructures, etc.). According to the
Program of the Ministry of Economy in 2013 the investments would be directed toward
new tools creation, particularly, incubators, techno parks, innovative centers’ net, etc. It
also includes elaboration and implementation of sector development programs, aiming at
products and services quality improvement, their convergence to international standards
and export opportunities enlargement. All this will increase the attractiveness of SME
sector for foreign investors.

       Vast majority of the banks in the Republic of Armenia in 2010-2012 increased
their SME portfolios. That increase first of all is conditioned by the release after the crisis
of 2009 and also by the increase of the funds granted from international organizations and
foreign governments for SME sector development. In 2009 there was a huge injection in
Armenian economy to support SME sector, particularly from the Government of the
Republic of Armenia and the World Bank. CBA injected the funds of Government of
Armenia and World Bank in Armenian economy via Armenian financial institutions. In
2012 Asian Development Bank launched a new program for women SME support called
Women’s Entrepreneurship Support Sector Development Program via the Central Bank
of Armenia. Due to the international funds injection to the economy of Armenia it was
possible to seize the crisis in terms of interest rates increase, lack of financing and other
systematic problems in the economy.

        The other way to demonstrate the benefits of the WB funds for the Armenian
economy is to analyze the relationship between the GDP and the volume of the loans
disbursed within the framework of GAF-AFSME Program. Based on the data of National
Statistic Service of Armenia there is a positive dynamics of the GAF-AFSME Program
portfolio and GDP in general. In 2010 the GAF-AFSME outstanding portfolio totaled to
only 0.02% of the GDP, in 2011 the same figure totaled to 0.35%, and in 2012 it was
already 0.51%. So it is obvious that there is a positive influence of GAF-AFSME
Program funds on the economy as a whole.

        Coming from the stated above it could be concluded that there are no systematic
biases or other problems that could negatively impact the progress of the GAF-AFSME
Program. Besides, the Program during its implementation period leaves three-side
positive impact: PFIs, sub-borrowers and GAF PMU. In case of PFIs the positive
influence is reflected in the new culture of the loan disbursements that comes from the
Program requirements in terms of procurement, environment screening, resettlement
screening, sales price bidding, and many other important specifications. As an
achievement for the Program we can state that several PFIs even open new positions for

                                              38
improving the Program implementation process. In case of sub-borrowers it could be
stated that they became more accurate in their documentation processing and
maintenance, paid more attention to the procurement documentation as well as to the
competitive pricing. Besides, sub-borrowers paid more attention to the environment
issues. Even having in mind that it could be a short-time effect of financial dependence
from the Program funds its influence may be prolonged in the future as a cultural
characteristic. During GAF-AFSME Program implementation a lot of site-visits to the
sub-borrowers were organized by GAF PMU auditors that is one of the important
requirements, as it gives not only the opportunity to audit the loan utilization purpose but
also get some kind of the feedback for the Program and PFIs policy in general. In most of
the cases the borrowers were satisfied by the loan conditions and had no suggestions for
improvement. The only bothering thing that all of them were mentioning was interest rate
of the loans, but we could do nothing on that issue as the level of interest rates was
dictated by the policy of the PFIs and the sector as a whole. In case of GAF PMU it is
important to mention that many principals and methodology of GAF-AFSME Program
became a standard for new programs implementations and in the future it is planned to
apply some of GAF-AFSME Program important requirements to new and already
existing programs.




                                            39
       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


The following is a summary of the main feedback provided by PFIs during the ICR
mission:
      PFIs considered the project highly relevant. They expressed significant
       challenges in mobilizing AMD deposits, which are mostly short term, and
       therefore appreciate funding from IFIs. Without access to donor credit lines, PFIs
       confirmed their difficulties to extend medium to longer term credit to SMEs.
       Access to cheaper funds also allowed them to reduce interest rates. The project
       was considered successful in achieving its objectives by helping PFIs: (i) grow
       their lending business with SMEs; and (ii)) increase awareness and expertise on
       safeguards and procurement issues. One PFI reported that it has also grown its
       leasing portfolio substantially due World Bank funds.

      PFIs were appreciative of the support provided by GAF and the Bank team.
       They expressed high satisfaction with the professionalism of GAF, which quickly
       responded to their needs and provided technical assistance for loan officers on the
       project’s requirement. PFIs also appreciated the flexibility of the Bank’s team to
       respond efficiently and address several impediments during implementation.

      However, PFIs expressed the need to further simplify World Bank
       requirements. Amongst a few suggestions, the most important one is to allow for
       the financing of used goods, as most of new investments are done with used
       goods. PFIs highlighted this challenge as a significant restriction to provide
       investment finance to SMEs.




                                           40
                 Annex 9. Distribution of Loans, as of end-December 2012

Breakdown by loan amount                                                       Currency: AMD

                                                       Outstanding portfolio
                                         Number           Volume                Average
Micro-express loans (<=1,000,000 AMD)       1,605           907,986,197              565,723
Micro loans (<=6,000,000 AMD)               2,381         6,242,239,902            2,621,688
Small loans (<=33,000,000 AMD)                777         9,461,872,130           12,177,442
Medium loans (>33,000,000 AMD)                 73         3,889,220,757           53,276,997
Total                                       4,836        20,501,318,987

Breakdown by sector
                                                       Outstanding portfolio
                                         Number           Volume                Average
Agriculture                                 2,200         3,900,961,729            1,773,164
Building                                       15           336,378,072           22,425,205
Production                                    259         2,435,576,941            9,403,772
Services                                      128           935,852,050            7,311,344
Trade                                       2,077        11,599,883,460            5,584,922
Other                                         157         1,292,666,734            8,233,546

Total                                       4,836     20,501,318,987

Breakdown by purpose
                                                       Outstanding portfolio
                                         Number           Volume                Average
Purchase of transport                           4            73,638,827           18,409,707
Construction                                   26           380,405,189           14,630,969
Fixed assets                                  845         3,827,873,986            4,530,028
Mixed                                         499         2,125,633,224            4,259,786
Production equipment                            5            23,167,899            4,633,580
Repairing premises                             21           173,999,815            8,285,705
Working capital                             3,387        13,376,436,968            3,949,347
Other                                          49           520,163,079           10,615,573
Total                                       4,836        20,501,318,987

Breakdown by maturity
                                                       Outstanding portfolio
                                         Number           Volume                Average
1 - 6 months                                    1             6,600,000            6,600,000
6 - 12 months                                  63           201,210,854            3,193,823
12 - 18 months                                175           676,401,520            3,865,152
18 - 24 months                                835         1,347,365,702            1,613,612
24 - 36 months                              1,873         4,102,408,376            2,190,287
36 - 48 months                               1214         6,337,055,025            5,219,979
 > 48 months                                  675         7,830,277,510           11,600,411
Total                                       4,836        20,501,318,987

Breakdown by regions ( by marz)
                                                       Outstanding portfolio
                                         Number           Volume                Average
Aragacotn                                       131         401,150,549            3,062,218
Ararat                                          723       2,376,604,850            3,287,144


                                           41
Armavir                                                                       1102         2,761,151,021                        2,505,582
Gegharkunik                                                                    131           718,055,447                        5,481,339
Kotayk                                                                         407         1,404,720,313                        3,451,401
Lori                                                                           340         1,753,200,884                        5,156,473
Shirak                                                                         374         1,440,120,762                        3,850,590
Sjunik                                                                         224           644,458,472                        2,877,047
Tavush                                                                          54           311,191,824                        5,762,812
Vajoc-Dzor                                                                     208           472,399,882                        2,271,153
Yerevan                                                                       1142         8,218,264,984                        7,196,379
Total                                                                        4,836        20,501,318,987




             Outstanding portfolio by duration                                                 Outstanding portfolio by sector
                             0% 1% 3%               7%

                     38%                                                                                      6%          19%
                                                    20%                                                                                     2%

                                                                                                                                      12%
                                      31%                                                       57%

                                                                                                                                        4%

    1 - 6 months     6 - 12 months        12 - 18 months    18 - 24 months
    24 - 36 months   36 - 48 months       > 48 months                            Agriculture     Building    Production    Services    Trade     Other


                Outstanding portfolio by region                                           Outstanding portfolio by loan size
                                     2%        12%                                                                 4%
                                                           13%                                              19%
                       40%                                                                                                  31%


                                     7%                     3%                                         46%
                                                           7%
                     2% 2%                          9%
                           3%
                                                                                     Micro-express loans                    Micro loans
    Aragacotn        Ararat               Armavir           Gegharkunik              (<=1,000,000 AMD)                      (<=6,000,000 AMD)
    Kotayk           Lori                 Shirak            Sjunik                   Small loans                            Medium loans
    Tavush           Vajoc-Dzor           Yerevan                                    (<=33,000,000 AMD)                     (>33,000,000 AMD)




                                                                          42
                               Loans in arrears

                                                            Portfolio-at-risk
            Criteria                   Total Arrears        (>30 days)
By volume                                          1.1%                      0.8%
By number                                          1.6%                      0.9%

                 Outstanding portfolio
        Number of loans                Volume of loans
                           4,836           20,501,318,987




                                         43
                 Annex 10. Financial Soundness Indicators for the Banking Sector

                                                                                              2008           2009        2010        2011        2012
Capital adequacy
  Total regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets                                                 27.5        28.3        22.2        18.3        16.8
  Tier I regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets                                                28.2        26.7        20.2        16.7        15.2
  Capital (net worth) to assets                                                                    23.0        21.0        20.4        17.2        15.9

Asset composition
 Sectoral distribution of loans to total loans (percent of total)
   Industry (excluding energy sector)                                                              10.7        16.5        17.7        14.0        15.5
   Energy Sector                                                                                    3.2         4.5         5.3         6.1         4.6
   Agriculture                                                                                      5.9         6.3         5.9         6.3         6.3
   Construction                                                                                     6.4         7.7         8.4         7.5         6.2
   Transport and communication                                                                      1.7         2.2         2.9         4.0         3.0
   Trade/commerce                                                                                  21.4        20.8        20.9        21.6        19.9
  Foreign exchange loans to total loans                                                            38.7        54.0        58.0        61.2        64.7

Asset quality
Non-performing loans to gross loans (Categories III, IV + V)                                     2.5            6.1         5.4         5.3         6.4
Provisions to total gross loans                                                                  1.7            2.2         1.7         1.9         2.0
Provisions to total non-performing loans (Categories II, III+ IV)                               38.2           46.7        56.7        55.4        25.2
Provisions to total non-performing loans (Categories III, IV+ V)                               128.2           71.1        97.9        99.0        81.6

Earnings and profitability
  ROA (profits to period average assets)                                                            3.1         0.7         2.2         1.9         1.1
  ROE (profits to period average equity)                                                           13.6         3.4        10.2         9.8        11.5
  Interest margin to gross income                                                                  45.9        42.2        43.8        42.0        40.6
  Interest income to gross income                                                                  72.7        78.3        77.0        78.3        80.0
  Non-interest expenses to gross income                                                            42.0        40.7        39.2        36.4        34.2

Liquidity
  Liquid assets to total assets                                                                 23.8          34.2        29.5        27.9        25.6
  Liquid assets to total short-term liabilities                                                103.1         142.1       131.5       120.8       126.1
  Loan to Deposit Ratio                                                                        122.8         112.2       132.0       129.6       135.6
  Customer deposits to total (non-interbank) loans                                              81.4          96.4        87.2        91.5        92.6
  Foreign exchange liabilities to total liabilities                                             55.1          67.6        64.9        63.3        64.9

Key Reference Data
  External borrowings outstanding (USD equivalent - 000 000)                               449.9              386.3       500.3       766.7      1074.8
  Remittances received /cumulative for a year/ (USD equilvalent - 000)                   1,635,307        1,124,119   1,293,736   1,546,959   1,687,263

  Foreign exchange deposits to total deposits (as percentage)                              51.4                73.8        69.6        68.7        70.3
  Year-end GDP (corrected or final estimate for subject year - USD equivalent 000 000)
                                                                                          11,917             8,541       9,393       9,393      10,265

  Total assets of banking system (USD equivalent 000 000)                                  3,346             3,509       4,294       5,357       6,122
  Total assets of banking system as percentage of GDP at year-end AMD                      28.1               42.7        44.5        58.9        64.6




                                                                          44
                                                                         Annex 11. Financial Soundness Indicators for PFIs

                                                  Total Capital-to-Assets Ratio                      Share of non-performing loans 2                  Return on Assets (RoA)3                     Return on Equity (RoE)4
                PFIs
                                           2008        2009       2010       2011     2012      2008       2009     2010     2011      2012   2008    2009    2010      2011      2012    2008    2009    2010      2011     2012
1 ArmBusinessBank                           16%         18%        14%        13%      12%        2%         5%        3%      3%       5%       3%     1%         1%       1%      -1%     13%     9%        8%        9%     -6%
2 Anelik Bank                               21%         38%        31%        26%      23%        6%         4%        3%      4%       2%       2%     0%         1%       0%      -2%     8%      -2%       3%        1%    -10%
3 Ararat Bank                               25%         20%        16%        14%      14%        0%         0%        0%      0%       2%       2%     1%         3%       3%      3%      11%     4%       14%      19%      24%
4 Ameria Bank                               41%         21%        21%        17%      14%        1%         0%        0%      0%       1%       3%     2%         2%       2%      3%      7%      6%       11%      13%      16%
5 VTB Bank Armenia                          24%         20%        22%        15%      11%        6%         8%        2%      6%       5%       3%     0%         4%       2%      2%      13%     -1%      17%        9%     18%
6 ArmEconomBank                             17%         17%        17%        15%      14%        2%         2%        4%      2%       1%       1%     0%         1%       1%      1%      5%      2%        3%        6%     4%
7 Converse Bank                             18%         15%        17%         9%      14%        7%        12%        9%      5%       5%       3%     -2%        0%       -3%     3%      16%    -11%       3%      -19%     22%
8 Inecobank                                 19%         20%        21%        16%      15%        5%         2%        2%      1%       3%       4%     2%         4%       3%      3%      22%    10%       19%      18%      19%
9 Byblos Bank Armenia                       60%         47%        30%        23%      18%        3%         3%        0%      1%       6%      -4%     0%         2%       1%      0%      -7%     0%        5%        3%     1%
10 HSBC Bank Armenia                        12%         11%        15%        15%      15%        4%         7%        4%      6%       1%       3%     0%         3%       3%      4%      29%     -2%      24%      23%      26%
11 ACBA Credit Agricole Bank                21%         21%        23%        20%      19%        2%         3%        2%      1%       2%       5%     3%         2%       3%      2%      19%    15%       11%      14%      9%
12 Areximbank                               30%         35%        21%        16%      13%        1%         2%        2%      1%       0%       1%     0%         1%       1%      1%      5%      0%        5%        7%     8%
13 Ardshininvestbank                        23%         23%        25%        19%      17%        4%         7%        2%      5%       4%       5%     1%         2%       1%      3%      27%     5%        7%        6%     13%
14 ProCredit Bank                           50%         29%        21%        17%      14%        3%         3%        3%      3%       4%      -4%     -1%       -2%       -1%     -1%     -6%     -4%      -6%       -3%     -8%
15 Farm Credit Armenia                      55%         49%        30%        17%      17%        0%         1%        1%      1%       2%       0%     5%         4%       2%      4%      0%     11%       11%      10%      21%
16 CARD AgroCredit                           1%         51%        46%        40%      26%        0%         1%        1%      3%       3%       1%     7%         4%       3%      3%      1%     13%        9%        7%     10%
     2
       Non performing loans include loans which are overdue more than 1 days (loans classified as watch, substandard, doubtful loans).
     NPL ratio= (Watch loans+ Substandard loans+Doubtful loanss)/(Standard loans+Watch loans+Substandard loans+Doubtful
     loans). Loans classified as loss, which are fully provisioned against, were held off-balance sheet.
     3
         RoA is calculated as the ratio of net profit (after taxes) and average daily assets for the corresponding year.
     4
       RoE is calculated as the ratio of net profit (after taxes) and average daily total capital for the corresponding
     year.




                                                                                                                    45
                   Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Project Appraisal Document
2.   Project Aide Memoires and Implementation Status and Results Reports
3.   Operational Manual
4.   Project Progress Reports
5.   Country Assistance Strategy
6.   Armenia Development Strategy for 2012-2025
7.   IEG “The World Bank’s Group Response to the Global Economic Crisis?: Phase
     II, 2012.




                                      46
                         43°E                                                                             To T’bilisi                To T’bilisi                                                                                          46°E                                                   47°E
                                                                                              44°E
                                                        GEOR GI A                                                                                                                                                                                G E OR G IA
                                                                      To Borjomi

                                                                                   L e s s Tashir
                                                                                           Tashir
                                                                                            er C       Alaverdi                                                                                   To Gäncä
                                                                                                    auc                                                                                                                         Ku
                                                                                                        asu                                                                                                                          ra                                                Mingechevir         41°N
                 41°N                                                                       Stepanavan          s M                                                                                                  To Gäncä                                                          Reservoir
                                                                                                                    ou
                                                                                                  LORRI                nt
                                                                             SHIRAK                                       ai                                                       Ijevan
                                                                                                                             n                                          s
                                                                                       Gyumri                           Vanadzor
                                                                                                                        Vanadzor                                              AV U S H
                                                                                                                                                                            T AV
                                                                       To
                                                                      Kars                                                                                   Dilijan


                                                                                                Artik
                                                                                                Artik                                                                                                    Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                        Aragats                                         Sevan                                                 To
                                                                      pa                                                                                                                                     Gäncä
                                                                 Ar                                     (4090 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                   Hrazdan
                                                                                         A R A G AT S O T N




                                                                                                                            Hraz d a n

                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                                                       Gavar               Lake
                                                                                                        Ashtarak
                                 T UR KEY                                                                                                                                                 Sevan




                                                                                                                                               TA
                                                                                                                                                                             GEGHARK’UNIK’




                                                                                                                                                   YK
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN                                                                         Vardenis
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vardenis




                                                                                                                                                    ’
                                             Aras
                                                                                     AV I R
                                                                               A R M AV                                 YEREVAN
                                                                                                                        YEREVAN
                                                                                   Armavir
                                                                                   Armavir                                                                                                   Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                             Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                                            nge
                                                                                                                                                                                               ni      s Ra                                                                                                40°N
                 40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                      r     de
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                                                                                   Va
                                                                                                                                              A R A R AT
                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                  VAY
                                                                                                                                                                                            V AY O T S ’
                                                                                                                            Ar



                                                                                                                                               Ararat
                                                                                                                            as


                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                        Jermuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jermuk
                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                    DZOR
                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                     Yegegnadzor
                                                                                                                                                                                             Yegegnadzor
                        43°E                                                                  44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                     Arpa                                                                        AZ E RB AIJ AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                              Naxçivan                                                                    Angekhakot

                                 ARM E NI A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Goris       Qubadli




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o tan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Naxçivan
                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                       ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Qubadli
                                                                                                                                                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) CAPITALS                                                                                                                       A ZERBA IJA N                                              SYUNIK’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                          I SLA MIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                     Kapan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                       RIVERS                                                                   O F IRA N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        0   10                20    30        40          50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39°N
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33364
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) BOUNDARIES                                                       0                10             20              30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Füzili
                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                         Megri

                                                                                                                                                                   45°E                                                                   To Ordubad                                                    47°E
