CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1623 GUA
Project Agreement
(Upper Demerara Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEMERARA WOODS LIMITED
Dated December 4, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1623 GUA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and DEMERARA WOODS LIMITED (hereinafter called Demerara).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Guyana (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that Demerara agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Demerara pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to Demerara on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Demerara, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Demerara shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering, agricultural and forestry practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist Demerara in the supervi-
sion of the execution of the Project, Demerara shall employ
engineering consaltants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist Demerara in carrying out Part (F) of
the Project, Demerara shall employ experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bark shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Demerara undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Demerara to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Demerara shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Demerara shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Demerara shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section,
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to exam-
ine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at


﻿- 3 -
regular intervals all such information as the the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Demerara
and the Bank, Demerara shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by Demerara and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Demerara shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of Demerara and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. Demerara shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Demerara shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) Demerara shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the  Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Demerara shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by Demerara of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Demerara
Section 3.01. (a) Demerara shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and shall


﻿/                                   -4-
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) Demerara shall operate and maintain its equipment and
property and the equipment and property held by it for and on
behalf of the Borrower, public entities and local collectivities,
and, on a timely basis, make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering and
forestry practices.
Section 3.02. Demerara shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the future expansion of its operations and maintain its
financial position, all in accordance with appropriate business
and financial principles and practices and under an experienced
and competent management.
Section 3.03. Demerara shall, not later than December 31,
1978, appoint, in consultation with the Bank, a project director,
a project officer, an accountant and a secretary.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist Demerara in the manage-
ment of the sawmill complex to be constructed under the Project,
Demerara shall employ, not later than February 1, 1980 and for
.a period of three years, management consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Demerara shall, in consultation with the Bank and upon
the completion of the term of employment of the consultants
referred to in sub-Section (a) above, appoint and thereafter
employ appropriately qualified and experienced persons to the
positions of managing director, chief accountant, chief engineer
and mill manager.
Section 3.05. Demerara shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.06. Demerara shall not, without the prior approval
of the Bank, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the
property or assets which are required for the efficient operation
of its activities.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.07. (a) Demerara shall, not later than January 1,
1981 enter into a marketing agreement with the Export Board for
the marketing of the entire exportable timber output of Demerara
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Demerara
undertakes to maintain the product mix specified in the Marketing
Memorandum of Intent and to be included in the Marketing Agreement
for a period of six years after the commencement of operation of
the sawmill provided under Part (B) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Demerara shall establish, and thereafter
maintain, records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. Demerara shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of Demerara
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Demerara shall not incur, without the prior
concurrence of the Bank, any debt if, or if as a result of such
incurrence, Demerara's debt/equity ratio would exceed 70:30.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Demerara shall
not incur any debt, other than money borrowed for financing the
Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next preced-
ing such incurrence or for a later period of twelve consecutive


﻿-6-
months ending prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater,
shall be not les.s than 1.5 times the maximum debt service require-
ment for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including the debt
to be incurred.
(c) For the purpose of sub-Sections (a) and (b) above:
(i) the term "Debt" means any debt incurred by Demerara
maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a loan contract or agreement on the date and to
the extent it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
or agreement; and (B) under a guarantee agreement
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "Equity" means the sum of the total unim-
paired capital, surplus, contributions by the
Borrower and free reserves of Demerara not allo-
cated to cover specific liabilities;
(iv) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources less operating and administrative
expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision covering depreciation, interest
and other charges on debt;
(v) the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payment, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(vi) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Guyana Dollars
debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing rate
of exchange published by the Central Bank of
Guyana.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the     Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
the Bank and of Demerara thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Demerara thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions Gi this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For Demerara:
Demerara Woods Limited
41 Brickdam and Boyle Place
Georgetown
Guyana
Cable address:
DEMWOODS
Georgetown, Guyana
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Demerara may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of the Board of Demerara or such other person or
persons as the said Chairman of the Board shall designate in
writing, and Demerara shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolas Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
DEMERARA WOODS LIMITED
By Is/ Franklin E. Hope
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for civil works and materials and for the purchase
of vehicles and logging equipment and ship loading equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each shall be
procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Demerara shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. Demerara shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to Demerara of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works and materials and for the purchase
of vehicles and logging equipment, ship loading equipment esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 each and not


﻿- 10 -
exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be
procured after competitive bidding based on local advertising in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, materials,
vehicles and logging equipment and ship loading equipment esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Demerara shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Demerara
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
-Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Demerara and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 11 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Demerara shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Demerara and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, Demerara shall inform the
Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform Demerara and state the reasons
for its determination.


