OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1555 GUA
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Upper Demerara Forestry Project)
between
GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          ,1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1555 GIJA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ?  A62t J -             , 1985, between
GUYANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement dated December 4, 1978, as
amended to the date of this Agreement (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement), between the Borrower and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank),
the Bank made a loan to the Borrower in various currencies
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement and in a project agreement of even date
thereto between the Bank and Demerara Woods Limited (hereinafter
called DWL);
(B) the Borrower has received from the Inter-American
Development Bank (hereinafter called IDB) loans (hereinafter
called the IDB Loans) in the aggregate amount equivalent to six
million dollars ($6,000,000) to assist in financing Part B of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective
loan agreements between IDB and the Borrower;
(C) the Borrower has received from IDB a grant (hereinafter
called the IDB Grant) in an amount equivalent to seven hundred
eighty thousand dollars ($780,000) to assist in financing Part F
(3) of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in a grant
agreement between IDB and the Borrower;
(D) the Borrowei has received from the European Development
Fund (hereinafter called EDF) grants (hereinafter called the EDF
Grants) in the aggregate amount equivalent to three million five
hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) to assist in financing
Parts C and F (1) of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the respective grant agreements between EDF and the
Borrower;
(E) the Borrower has received from EDF a loan (hereinafter
called the EDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to five million two
hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000) to assist in financing Part
C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in a loan
agreement between EDF and the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(F) by an agreement (hereinafter called the Timber Sales
Agreement) dated September 14, 1978 between the Borrower and DWL,
the Borrower has granted to DWL, inter alia, the exclusive right
to cut any and all trees on forest land within the Project Area
for a period of twenty-five years commencing on the date of such
Agreement;
(G) by an agreement (hereinafter called the Marketing
Agreement), dated August 9, 1984 between the Guyana Forestry
Commission and DWL, the Guyana Forestry Commission has granted to
DWL the exclusive right to market DWL forestry products;
(H) the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional financing for Parts A, B (2), D and F (3), (4) and (5)
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(I) the Project is being carried out by DWL with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to DWL the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and DWL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-3-
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and DWL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DWL pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "DWL" means Demerara Woods Limited, an entity organized
under the Borrower's Companies Act and operating under its
Memorandum and Articles of Association, dated July 28, 1978;
(e)  "Project Area" means the area covering about 222,000
hectares in the Upper Demerara-Essequibo Basin bound on the north
by an east-west line from Great Falls on the Demerara River to
the Essequibo River, on the east by the Demerara and Mauri
Rivers, on the south by the Kurupukari cattle trail and on the
west by the Essequibo River;
(f)  "Guyana Dollars" means the currency of the Borrower;
and
(g)  "Guyana Forestry Commission" means an entity organized
under the Borrower's Act No. 2 of September 1979.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eight million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 8,700,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.    Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1995, and ending September 1,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. DWL is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a)
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development Cre-
dit Agreement, shall cause DWL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable DWL to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
DWL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and DWL under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall include, inter alia,
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the inter-
ests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the


﻿-6-
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, or shall cause its Central
Bank to: (i) have the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association monthly
certified statements of such Account and all such other informa-
tion concerning such Account and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make available to DWL
foreign exchange in sufficient amounts to cover DWL's import
requirements for its operations.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
with regard to the Borrower's forestry products pricing policies
and its plans in respect of the overall development of the
forestry sector.
(b) The Borrower shall, as long as it exercises control
over the setting of prices of forestry products of DWL, establish
or cause to be established prices for such products sold by DWL
which would: (i) allow DWL, under conditions of efficient opera-
tion at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, to cover its
operating costs including taxes, earn an adequate return on funds
invested in it, meet its financial obligations and make a reason-
able contribution to future investment for expansion of capacity;
and (ii) be reasonably competitive with prices for forestry pro-
ducts in other major producing countries; and (iii) subject to
the achievement of objectives (i) and (ii) above, pass on the
benefit of declines in real cost of production to DWL through
reduction in prices in real terms.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿(a) DWL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that DWL will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower's Companies Act or DWL's Memorandum or
Articles of Association shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adver-
sely the ability of DWL to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DWL or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The Timber Sales Agreement shall have been suspended,
abrogated, waived, amended, or repealed so as to affect, in the
opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the opera-
tions or financial condition of DWL or ability of DWL to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(f) The Marketing Agreement shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the
opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the opera-
tions or financial condition of DWL or ability of DWL to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the EDF Grants or the EDF Loan or
the IDB Loans or the IDB Grant or any other
grant or loan made to the Borrower or DWL for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) the IDB Loans or the EDF Loan or any other
such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematurity is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower or DWL to
perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower and DWL from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower and DWL under this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and DWL;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) or
(f) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of DWL has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary components and governmental action;


﻿(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and DWL; and
(c)  the experts referred to in Section 3.05 of the Project
Agreement, the consultants referred to in 3.06 of the Project
Agreement and the staff referred to in Section 3.04 (b) through
(g) of the Project Agreement have been employed by DWL in
accordance with the provisions of such Sections, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by DWL, and is legally binding upon DWL in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DWL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and DWL in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                 / i  T'    ,is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sec ion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpos of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             GY 3038
Georgetown, Guyana
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
GUYANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By             &2DUtO           &h
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 3,900,000           100% of foreign
(including                                   expenditures
maintenance                                  and 80% of
thereof),                                    local expendi-
vehicles,                                    tures
and spare
parts under
Part A of
the Project
(2) Equipment (in-            2,060,000           100% of foreign
cluding instal-                              expenditures
lations) and                                 and 80% of
spare parts                                  local expendi-
under Part B (2)                             tures
of the Project
(3) Works, materials            790,000           100% of foreign
and equipment                                expenditures
under Part D                                 and 80% of
of the Project                               local expendi-
tures
(4) Consultants'                880,000           100% of foreign
services and                                 expenditures
equipment                                    and 80% of
under Part F                                 local expendi-
3, 4 and 5                                   tures
of the Project
and travel
expenses for
DWL staff
under Part
F 5 of the
Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Specf,al Account            290,000          Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to Section
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(6) Insurance for               100,000          100% of foreign
one year for                                expenditures
the plants
and equipment
included under
Parts A through
E of the Project
(7) Unallocated                 680,000
TOTAL               8,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods and services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable


﻿- 14 -
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the eqpiAvalent of
seventy three thousand Special Drawing Rights (SPR 73,000),
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures for the
maintenance of equipment under Part A of the Project before that
date but after September 1, 1984.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are 'not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) develop timber
resources in the Project Area; (b) increase forestry products
exports to international markets; and      (c) increase forestry
products supply for the domestic market.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Acquisition, operation and maintenance of logging and
transport equipment, including chainsaws, bulldozers,
skidders, trucks and a hydraulic boom loader.
2.   Acquisition,   operation   and   maintenance  of   road
construction   equipment    and   vehicles,   including
bulldozers, bucket loaders, dump trucks, road graders
and chainsaws.
3.   Acquisition,  operation   and  maintenance  of  support
equipment and vehicles, including fuel trucks, buses,
pick-up trucks, a mobile repair truck, a low-bed
trailer and two-way radios.
Part B:
1.   Construction of a sawmill including a sawshop, dry kiln
facilities, a planer, moulder and joinery shop, a
mechanical workshop, an office building and lumber
storage facilities.
2.   Acquisition,   operation   and   maintenance   of   log
preparation equipment, sawmill machinery, kiln drying
equipment, planer, moulder and joiner equipment, lumber
handling equipment, wood residue disposal equipment and
equipment for the mechanical workshop and the sawshop.
Part C:
Construction and equipping of a 4,800 KW electric power
station and the construction of a related power distri-
bution system.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:
1.   Construction  of  the Mabura Hill township     for  the
sawmill staff, including housing facilities, a school,
medical facilities, a clubhouse, a security office,
roads, water supply, sewerage and drainage systems
including the acquisition and utilization of fittings
and equipment for the housing facilities.
2.   Acquisition, operation and maintenance of a telephone
exchange and transmission system for about one hundred
lines.
Part E:
1.   Construction of a port facility at Christianburg for
river transport of sawmill products to the port of
Georgetown, including construction of an office, a
storage area and a shed for parking and servicing
mobile equipment.
2.   Acquisition, operation and maintenance of lumber and
log handling and loading equipment for the port
facility.
Part F:   Provision of technical assistance services for:
1.   Preparation of the Project engineering design.
2.   Supervision of Project construction.
3.   Strengthening the management of DWL, including      the
acquisition  and   utilization  of   a  computer, word
processing and office equipment and related software
required for the purpose.
4.   Carrying out of research on (a) wood technology and (b)
wood   utilization,  including   the   acquisition  and
utilization of laboratory equipment therefor.
5.   Preparation and implementation of a marketing strategy
for forest products sales.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (5) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdraw
on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount or amounts of the Authorized
Allocation as the Borrower shall have requested, up to the total
of the Authorized Allocation. The Central Bank shall authorize
withdrawals from the Special Account on the basis of the evidence
that shall have been reasonably determined by the Association.
For each such authorized withdrawal, the Central Bank shall debit
the Special Account with the amount in dollars so withdrawn or
with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than dollar in
which the payment was made, determined on the basis of the rate
of exchange between the dollar and such currency in effect: (i)
at the date each payment shall have been made, if the payment has
taken place within 60 days before the date on which the with-
drawal in question has been requested; or (ii) at the date each
withdrawal   shall  have   been   made,  if   the  withdrawal   in


﻿- 18 -
question refers to: (A) payments made more than 60 days before
such withdrawal has been requested; or (B) payments to be made
directly from the Special Account.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit
to replenish the Special Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Association at
such intervals as the Association shall specify, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
respective Categories (1) through (4), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association in respect of each payment made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as
the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement,
or (b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (4) for the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Associa-
tion pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (4) for the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and shall,


﻿- 19 -
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made. only
after and to the extent the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association, an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The following relending terms and conditions shall be
observed in respect of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.   The Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in dollars and
repaid in Guyana Dollars.
2.   DWL shall repay the Subsidiary Loan to the Borrower over a
period of eighteen years, including therein three years grace
period,
3.   DWL shall pay interest at the rate of eleven percent (11%)
per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time. Such interest rate shall be subject to annual
review between DWL and the Borrower, and, if needed, adjusted
promptly thereafter to ensure that such rate remains positive in
real terms, all in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
4.   DWL shall bear any foreign exchange risk on the Subsidiary
Loan.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


