Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23914
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34700; SCL-3470A; IDA-23650)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION 153.0 MILLION AND SDR 116.2 MILLION
(US$ 153 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 21, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee
INR 1.00 = US$ 0.02
US$ 1.00 = INR 47.00
FISCAL YEAR
Apnl 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank              NH              National Highway
BMS           Bridge Management System            NHAI            National Highways Authority of India
ADB           Asian Development Bank              NHDP            National Highway Development Program
BMS           Bridge Management System            NHP             National Highway Project (Loan 2534 IN)
CE            Chief Engineer                      NITHE           National Institute for Trammg of Highway
CMF        :  Contract Management Framework       NPV       :     Net Present Value
CMU           Corridor Management Umt             PAP             Project Affected Person
EAP           Extemally Aided Projects            PIC             Project Implementation Cell
ERR           Economic Rate of Retum              PSR             Project Status Report
EMP           Environmental Management Plan       PWD             Public Works Department
GOI           Govermnent of India                 RAP             Resettlement Action Plan
GTRIP         Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project ROB            Road Over Rail Bridge
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction  Rs.           Indian Rupees
and Development                    RUB             Road Under Rail Bndge
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding    SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
IDA           Intemational Development Association  SC            Supervision Consultant
IRC           Indian Roads Congress               SH        .     State Highway
JV            Jomt Venture                        SNHP            Second National Highway Project
MBIU          Mobile Bridge Inspection Unit       TNA             Training Needs Assessment
MDR           Major Distnct Road                  TNHP            Third National Highway Project
MOST          Mmistry of Surface Transport        TTU             Technology Transfer Unit
MTR           Mid-Term Review of Project
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:     Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Vincent Gouarne
Sector Manager:      Guang Zhe Chen
Task Team Leader:       Sujit Das



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                           I
2. Principal Performance Ratmgs                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                    10
6. Sustainability                                                        12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                         14
8: Lessons Learned                                                       17
9. Partner Comments                                                      20
10. Additional Information                                               28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                     29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                     30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                     32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                     44
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components     46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                        47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                    48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009946                                 Project Name: NAT. HIGHWAYS Il
Team Leader: Sujit Das                              TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                  Report Date: April 12, 2002
1.     Project Data
Name: NAT. HIGHWAYS II                                L/C/TF  CPL-34700; SCL-
Number: 3470A; IDA-23650
Country/Department: INDIA                                         Region: South Asia
Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original          Revised/Actual
PCD:    02/19/1987                       Effective:  08/31/1992
Appraisal:  05/07/1990                          MTR:    07/03/1998
Approval:  05/12/1992                         Closing:  06/30/2001       12/31/2002
Borrower/Implemnenting Agency:  Government of India/Ministry of Surface Transport
Other Partners:
STAFF              Current                               At Appraisal
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu                       Joseph Wood
Country Manager:   Edwin Lim                             Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:    Vincent Gouarne                       Robert Panfil
Team Leader at ICR: Sujit Das                            J. Bentchikou
ICR Primary Author. Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi; Alok Nath
Bansal; Sujit Das; Fabio Galli
2.     Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)     ICR
Quality at Entry:                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The Project was substantially completed. 'I'he Credit portion of the project was closed as per original
closing date of June 30, 2001. However, the Loan portion was extended until December 31, 2002, only to
fund the full implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) in the State of Orissa.



-2 -
3.     Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1    Original Objective:
3.1.1  The objectives of the Project were to (i) modemize key sections of the National Highway (NH)
network; (ii) promote improvements in road engineering and construction, network management, and
contract management; and (iii) assist the State of Orissa in the reconstruction of flood damaged bridges.
3.1.2  The project concept was clear and in line with the current sector assistance strategy and
responsive to the government's request to the Bank for continuous assistance in the highway subsector. In
response to the Government of India's (GOI) request for assistance to flood damage in the State of Orissa
in 1990, it was agreed during credit/loan negotiations to include a third objective which was the
reconstruction of flood damaged bridges. This adjustment was appropriate considering the country's
immediate needs.
3.1.3  In retrospect, the project objectives as presented in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were really
the expected project outputs, rather than the development objectives. The development objectives of the
project should have been to: (i) relieve congestion, reduce transport cost and stimulate economic
development along the improved highways, (ii) strengthen public road management, (iii) improve the
skills and the business environment for the road construction industry, and (iv) restore connectivity in
Orissa.
3.2    Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3    Original Components:
3.3.1  The original components of the project contained two parts:
Part A
(i)  modernizing six sections of national highways comprising about 290 km in length in the States
of Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab and West Bengal (US$ 352.7
million including contingencies);
(ii) equipment for monitoring and managing the national highway network (US$ 1.5 million
including contingencies);
(iii) institutional strengthening (US$ 7 million including contingencies) including (i) fellowships
and training in the supervision of road works for professional and field staff; and (ii) technical
assistance to Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST);
(iv) studies to prepare follow-up projects (US$ 6 million including contingencies); and
Part B
(v)  reconstruction of six flood-damaged bridges in the State of Orissa (US$ 18.1 million including
contingencies).
3.3.2  The Project components were adequately designed to meet the project objectives, and took into
account the implementation capacity of the borrower as well as some of the lessons learnt from
implementing the Bank-funded National Highway Project (NHP) (Loan 2534-IN). The GOI's original
proposal to the Bank in the late 1980s covered 12 priority sections of NHs mI 11 States. Taking into
account the earlier expenence with the NHP, the Bank and GOI agreed to reduce the number of highway
sections to be improved to seven in six States. Furthermore, based on the lessons learnt in the NHP, the
project design included, inter-alia: (i) a Contract Management Framework (CMF) which outlined the



- 3 -
institutional arrangements involving MOST and the State Public Works Departments (PWDs) as well as
the role of international consultants as 'Engineer' for all major civil works contracts; (ii) more rigorous
criteria for pre-qualification of contractors, combined with larger contract packages; and (iii) simplified
procedure to expedite the import of construction equipment. The project design also included revising the
National Highway Rules of 1957; strengthening the owner-agent relationship between the MOST and the
State PWDs for a more effective implementation of national highway projects. The project however did
not include an effective institutional building mechanism to improve the MOST's internal functioning and
decision maling processes.
3.4    Revised Components:
3.4.1  In June 1994, as requested by GOI, the Bank agreed to finance the balance of civil works in
Punjab, Haryana and Tamil Nadu, that were previously being financed under the NHP. The NHP was
closed on December 31, 1993. The total value of the works remaining in the four contracts was estimated
at US$14.52 million. The Bank also agreed to add the State of Tamil Nadu to the Second National
Highway Project (NH-TI) to be able to fund the remaining works. No changes were made in the
credit/loan amounts.
3.4.2  In 1998, the Bank also agreed to finance, the costs of the Mobile Bridge Inspection Units
(MBTUs) (total cost US$ 1.3 million) that had been procured, but reimbursement could not be claimed,
under the States' Road Project (Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN) which was closed on June 30, 1996.
3.4.3  As a result of the July 1998 Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the Project, the Bank agreed to finance,
under the 'Institutional Strengthening' component the: (i) implementation of a Bridge Management
System (BMS) (as a follow up to the Tilot Study for Bridge Management System' completed under the
Project), estimated cost US$ 1.3 million, and (ii) Development of a Manual for Design and Construction
of Rigid (Concrete) Pavements (in order to fully benefit from the experience gained through construction
of concrete pavement on the Indore Bypass under the Project). Neither of the above changes were
significant and did not require a restructuring of the project.
3.5    Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  Quality at entry should be considered unsatisfactory. This rating is because the civil works were
not ready for implementation at the time of project effectiveness. Satisfactory engineering designs and
bid documents had not been completed and the pre-qualification of contractors for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) had not been finalized between MOST and the Bank. As a direct
consequence of the fact that the engineering designs were not finalized, little advance actions could be
taken in terms of making the construction sites free of obstructions (such as utilities, trees, etc). This
resulted in the first two years after project effectiveness being used to continue project preparation. Major
works could only start in three States (Haryana, Orissa and Punjab) by end-1994/early-1995. The major
civil works in the remaining three States (Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and West Bengal) started only
five years (1997) after project effectiveness. This was because the engineering designs had to be fully
revised and it took quite some time to clear the construction sites of all obstructions. Although the CMF
made an attempt to streamline the procedures, at different stages of project implementation, the dual
responsibility of MOST and State PWDs and the weak accountability of both gave rise to delays in the
decision making process.
3.5.2  Baseline data on the Project was rather limited, and no performance indicators were
established/agreed. This was not an unusual practice for projects prepared at that time, and this made it
more difficult to evaluate the Project's performance. Environmental and social assessments were not
carried out during the project preparation, and no Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared.



-4 -
Although an agreement was reached about implementing a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), no such plan
was prepared prior to project start. Neither was the institutional capacity to implement environmental and
resettlement matters properly assessed. During the time period that the project was prepared (late 1980s
and early 1 990s), the preparation of the social and environmental plans and mitigations measures were not
given the same attention and consequently resources as they are now. Finally, at the time when this
project was prepared, it was not a practice to have financial management specialists in highway project
teams, unless the project included revenue earning entities such as toll roads.
4.     Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1    Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  Modernizing Key Sections of the NH Network: Achievement of this objective is satisfactory.
The modernization (four-laning) of 290 km of NHs was completed and the various sections were opened
to traffic between 1998 and 2001. Travel time, Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) and congestion have been
reduced in the improved sections through the four-laning of the carriageway and improved riding quality.
Travel time on the NHs modernized under the project has been reduced by about 16 percent on average
compared to the 'without project' scenario. Similarly, VOCs have been reduced by about 25 percent as
compared to the 'without project' scenario.
4.1.2 Promoting Improvements in (a) Road Engineering and Construction, (b) Network
Management, and (c) Contract Management: Achievement of this objective is satisfactory. As a
result of this Project and other externally aided projects, there has been a major improvement over the last
decade in the Indian road sub-sector, with respect to road engineering practices, construction techniques
and standards, and procurement and contract management practices (parts (a) and (c) of the objective).
The domestic road construction industry also improved itself in terms of skills, capacity and quality of
works executed. With supervision by internationally experienced consultants, the highway works under
the project have been carried out to relatively high engineering and construction standards. The domestic
contracting industry have developed a large pool of machinery for road construction and are now capable
of winning and implementing very large construction contracts with relatively high quality standards.
With the use of standard technical specifications and standard FIDIC-based contract agreements, a very
large domestic human resource (PWDs, supervision consultants and contractors), with knowledge of
modern highway construction and contract administration practices, has developed in India. For example,
MOST, PWDs and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), are now widely using the Bank's
standard procurement documents with some modifications.
4.1.3 Improvements in highway network management and maintenance practices by MOST and the
State PWDs (part (b) of the objective) has been more limited. The institutional capabilities of MOST and
the PWDs for planning and programming of highway projects and management of road network have
been only partially improved. However, through pre-investment studies carried out under the Project,
NHAI has developed good capabilities to prepare high quality projects. This has led to the preparation of
the Bank-funded Third National Highway Project (TNHP) (Loan 4559-IN), and the Grand Trunk Road
Improvement Project (GTRIP) (Loan 4622-IN). Aside from the NHAI-managed National Highway
Development Program (NHDP) which primarily focuses on improving to four-lane divided standard the
core NH network, there have been no significant improvements, as a result of the project, in how the rest
of the NH network is being maintained and managed by MOST.
4.1.4 Assisting the State of Orissa in the Reconstruction of Flood Damaged Bridges: The outcome
of this component is highly satisfactory. The six selected bridges were reconstructed and opened to
traffic between 1996 and 1998.



-5 -
4.2    Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Modernization of National Highways
4.2.1.1 Civil Works: The overall achievement of this component is satisfactory. The modernization
(divided four-laning) of 290 km of highways in six States was substantially completed and road sections
were opened to traffic in stages from 1998 to 2001. The table below presents the highway sections
modernized under the Project.
State                 Highway No.             from(km)                    to cm)
Haryana                   NH-1      Karnal (132.675)              Punjab Border (212.2)
Madhya Pradesh            NH-3      Indore Bypass (32.125 km long)
Madhya Pradesh            NH-3      Dewas (573.0)                 Indore (590.6)
Maharashtra               NH-8      Manor (439.0)                 Bassein Creek (497.0)
Orissa                    NH-5      Bhubaneswar (0.0)             Jagatpur (27.8)
Punjab                    NH-1      Haryana Border (212.2)         Sirhind (252.25)
West Bengal               NH-2      Barakar Bridge (438.6)        Ranigunj (474.0)
MOST was the primary implementing agency, while the State PWDs in the six States covered by
the project acted as agents for MOST for implementing the works. MOST was the owner, while the
PWDs in the respective States were the contractual employers on behalf of MOST for civil works and for
supervision consultancy. Only the Bassein Creek bridge in the State of Maharashtra and some ancillary
works for Indore Bypass in Madhya Pradesh (MP) could not be substantially completed within the
original credit/loan closing date of June 2001. The bridge was completed in September 2001, and the
bypass was substantially completed by October 2001. The quality of the completed NHs is satisfactory.
Road Over Bridges (ROB) or Under Bridges (RUB), across the railway tracks, were constructed by
Indian Railways as planned, but, in most cases, were completed behind schedule and affected completion
of the road works. The SAR projected implementation of the modernization works during 1993-99 in all
six States. The works in Haryana, Orissa and Punjab started in 1994-95, and the works in MP,
Maharashtra and West Bengal started in 1997. The civil works were completed in all six States by 2001.
4.2.1.2 The initial implementation delays were due to: (a) the long time it took to finalize the pre-
qualification of contractors, including reaching an agreement between the MOST and the Bank on it; (b)
the slow finalization of bid documents; and (c) the long time it took to evaluate and finalize the civil
works contracts. The construction sites in Haryana, Orissa and Punjab were not cleared of obstructions
prior to contract award, and removal of trees, utility relocation, etc., caused major hindrances and delayed
the implementation considerably, especially in Orissa and Punjab. In addition, major changes in designs
and drawings had to be made for the works in Haryana and Punjab during implementation, and this
caused major delays in Haryana. Works in Punjab also got substantially delayed due to the long time
taken to review and ensure structural stability of a major bridge following excessive settlement of its two
foundations. In MP, Maharashtra and West Bengal, completing revisions and preparation of better
quality designs and drawings prior to invitation of works bids; maling the sites free of obstructions prior
to contracts award; and agreeing on RAP (West Bengal), delayed the start of works. However, because of
better preparation, the works in these three States, were completed faster than those in the first three
States, with only small delays beyond the original contract periods. Finally, most of the domestic
contractors had not previously dealt with contracts of such magnitude and faced problems with planning
and scheduling of works as well as with cash flow. Thls also delayed implementation.
4.2.1.3 Environmental Management: The SAR had identified some beneficial environmental impacts
and had identified 'unstructured development along the improved highways' as the only adverse impact.



- 6 -
However, prior to the start of the Project, no detailed environmental assessment was done or an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) prepared. Furthermore, no specific institutional arrangements or
training on environmental management was planned. As a result of the Project, more than 60,000 trees
were cut, about 100 hectare of forest land (National Park in Maharashtra) were directly impacted.
Borrowing of earth, quarrying and hot-mix plants have degraded small parcels of land in each State. In
addition to the usual road construction related impacts, issues such as increased erosion, inadequate
drainage, safety hazards, are also associated with the Project. Except in Haryana and Punjab,
compensatory afforestation was inadequate in all States. Management of borrow areas, quarries, and
other temporarily acquired land was also unsatisfactory. Road safety measures remain inadequate in all
States. Furthermore, many standard (and good) construction practices were not followed or enforced.
However, some States have taken some good initiatives such as the highway safety patrols (Haryana),
schooling of the construction workers' children (Maharashtra), assistance in groundwater recharge
scheme (Madhya Pradesh), and inviting NGOs to implement and manage median landscape (Orissa).
4.2.1.4 The Bank initiated the environmental supervision in the last year of the Project to raise awareness
about environmental aspects among the PWD officers, supervising engineers and the contractors as well
as to review to what extent the environmental management was done under the Project. The Bank's
supervision encouraged better site cleaning, redevelopment of temporarily acquired land, and landscape
development. Progress in implementing the agreed environmental actions has been mixed; some States
did more and better than others. In light of this, the Bank has decided to continue the supervision of the
environmental component of the project, for a period of time, even after the loan closing.
4.2.1.5 Land Acquisition and Resettlement: As most of the land was acquired prior to the project
appraisal, no major issues regarding land acquisition and resettlement were anticipated. The total land
acquired for the project, including that acquired prior to the project appraisal, was about 270 hectares,
affecting more than 1,000 land owners who have lost only small part of their total land holdings. The
number of families physically displaced were only 19, who were resettled under a government program in
Madhya Pradesh, while in West Bengal, the displaced families made their own arrangements.
4.2.1.6 In addition, about 300 shop-keepers were affected in West Bengal and Orissa. The shop-keepers
in West Bengal (tenants) were offered an alternative constructed shop to re-establish their business. In
Orissa, the affected shop-keepers (encroachers) were identified in early 1999, just prior to the
commencement of civil works. A RAP was prepared by MOST in September 2000, for rehabilitating 252
encroacher shop-keepers identified during the tracer survey. The implementation of the RAP could not be
started prior to June 30, 2001, as the project cost estimates approved by the GOI did not include the cost
of RAP implementation. At the request of the GOI, the Bank extended the loan closing date from June 30,
2001, to December 31, 2002, to implement the RAP in Orissa. The Bank will continue supervision of
RAP implementation until its completion.
4.2.1.7 The independent resettlement impact evaluation studies have been carried out through academic
institutions. The studies indicate that the project had contributed positively by way of: (i) acquiring
tenure-ship to the houses and improved quality of house with better access to basic amenities; (ii)
acquisition of assets and livestock with the compensation money; (iii) increase in the value of road side
lands; (iv) increase in income levels (the average monthly income for the shopkeepers in West Bengal has
increased from Indian Rupees (Rs.) 1773 to 2778); and (v) successful relocation of community
utilities/services (drinking water sources, worship places, bus stops, etc.) which are used by the villagers
along the road.
4.2.2 Equipment for Monitoring and Managing the National HIighway Network: Achievement of
this component is unsatisfactory. Equipment identified during the project appraisal was not procured by
the MOST. In 1999, it was agreed that no new equipment would be procured under the credit, since the



-7 -
full credittloan amounts were already committed. This was probably the right decision, since there has
been only limited improvement in network monitoring and management by MOST and the PWDs during
the project period and the benefits of new equipment may not have been realized.
4.2.3 Institutional Strengthening: This component had two sub-components, as detailed below. The
achievement of this component is unsatisfactory.
4.2.3.1 Fellowships and Training: The training program as envisaged in the SAR was not implemented.
There was a very substantial delay in starting the Training Needs Assessment' (TNA) study. Although
the TNA was completed in July 1999, its implementation was not taken up before the project closed. The
Project funded some training or attendance at conferences, on a piece-meal basis without any overall
training program. Construction of the Training Center was planned (at appraisal) to be completed by
1997. Its construction finally started in 1999 and was completed by early 2001. Although the Training
Center started operating in October 2001, it is not yet fully functioning.
4.2.3.2 Technical Assistance (TA) to MOST: The SAR had envisaged a team of highly qualified and
experienced experts to provide TA to MOST. During implementation, the TA was disaggregated and the
following were undertaken by MOST: (i) TA to Project Implementation Cell (PIC) of MOST (to establish
a Management Information System (MIS) and develop Monthly and Quarterly Progress Report formnats);
(ii) Pilot Study for BMS; (iii) Preparation of a Manual for Road Safety Design; (iv) Review of
Specifications for Bituminous Pavement Layers and Materials, and Preparation of a Manual for
Construction and Supervision of Bituminous Works; (v) Proof Consultancy for Bassem Creek Bridge
design; and (vi) Training Needs Assessment.
Preparation of several other technical manuals/guidelines listed in the SAR were not carried out.
Although agreement was reached during MTR in 1998 to start 'Implementation of the BMS' (based on the
results of the Pilot Study) and 'Development of Manual for Design and Construction of Concrete
Pavements', these were not followed up by MOST.
4.2.3.3 Although MOST is using the MIS and the Monthly/Quarterly Progress Report formats for all its
Externally Aided Projects (EAP), the same information and reporting systems have not been
institutionalized, and the systems are not used for non-EAP. The 'Manual for Road Safety Design' has
been published; however, it is not being widely used by the road engineers in the country due to its
limited dissemination. The upgraded specifications prepared for bituminous pavement layers have been
incorporated in the 'Specifications for Road and Bridge Works' of MOST published by the Indian Roads
Congress (IRC), and will be used for practically all road projects in the country. The 'Manual for
Construction and Supervision of Bituminous Works' has also been prepared, and will be published by
IRC for wide dissemination. Most of the TA activities were planned (at appraisal) to be undertaken
during the early part of the project; but, most of the limited TA activities occurred during the later part of
the project, because of substantial delays in finalizing the terms of reference and subsequent consultant
selection process.
4.2.4  Pre-Investment Studies: Achievement of this component is rated as satisfactory. Undertaking
of pre-investment studies was delegated to NHAI when it became operational in 1996. NHAI completed
the feasibility study and design for the four-laning of about 1,000 km of the Agra-Barwa Adda section of
NH-2 in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand States, and 340 km of Tindivanam-Madurai section of NH-
45 in Tamil Nadu, of high quality. Out of the 1000 km of NH-2, about 480 km have been included under
TNHP approved by the Bank in 2000, 420 km included under the GTRIP approved by the Bank in 2001,
and an 80 km long Allahabad Bypass project is under preparation for likely funding by the Bank. These
three projects are being/will be implemented by the NHAI as part of the NHDP. MOST has also
completed detailed engineering for the four laning of about 70 km long Jalandhar-Amritsar section of



- 8 -
NH-1, 75 km long Chandigarh-Ropar-Kiratpur section of NH-21, and about 50 kmn long Ambala-Zirakpur
Chowk-Haryana/Himachal Pradesh Border section of NH-22, in Punjab and Haryana. Although the SAR
projected completion of all studies by 1997, they actually started in 1998 and continued until 2001. This
delay affected the start of the follow on projects - TNBP and GTRIP.
4.2.5  Reconstruction of Six Cyclone Damaged Bridges in the State of Orissa: Achievement of this
component is highly satisfactory. This component covered the reconstruction of six bridges (including
their approaches) in the Ganjam district, which were damaged during a major cyclone related flood in
1990: (i) bridge over river Ghodahada near Maulabhanja on State Highway (SH)-17; (ii) bridge over river
Jorou-I near Sorada on Major District Road (MDR)-62; (iii) bridge over river Rushikulya near Aska on
SH-7; (iv) bridge over river Ghodahada near Hinjili on SH-7; (v) bridge over river Badanadi near Aska on
MDR-68; and (vi) bridge over river Loharakhandi near Bhanjanagar on SH-7. Their reconstruction was
carried out under two contracts, starting in April 1994. Subsequently, construction of a flood-relieving
fly-over and bridge over Tipsira Nallah connecting the two bridges over Rushikulya and Badanadi were
added. The first three bridges were opened to traffic in 1996. The remaining three were completed in
1999 which is one year before their estimated completion date in the SAR. All other works were fully
completed by October 1999.
4.3    Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return:
4.3.1  The economic rate of return (ERR) for Part A, widening of six sections of national highways to
four-lane standard and construction of the Indore bypass is estimated at 24 percent versus 43 percent in
the SAR, and the net present value (NPV) at Rs.9,741 million versus Rs.21,183 million in SAR. Both
were adjusted and compared at 1995 constant prices. The SAR project cost, vehicle operating costs and
time costs estimates were converted to 1995 base year as the construction on these sections started mainly
from 1995. The Indore bypass is not yet open to traffic and the economic analysis is based on the
estimated divertible traffic onto the bypass. The recalculated ERR and NPV are lower than estimated in
the SAR due to: (i) large increases in the Rs. construction costs at 1995 prices; and (ii) lower growth of
traffic than assumed in SAR. One reason for the lower estimates of traffic growth rates in this report is
the general downturn of economic activities in 2001 (the consumption of diesel fuel, mainly used by road
transport, has come down by 5.3 percent in 2001 compared to the previous year). A sensitivity analysis
was carried out with higher traffic growth rates which marginally increased the ERR. The detailed
economic analysis is in Annex 3.
4.3.2 The ERR for Part B, reconstruction of six damaged bridges in the State of Orissa, has been
estimated at 47 percent with an NPV of Rs.672.9 million for 1991 base year. The SAR did not estimate
the overall ERR for this component, thus it cannot be compared with the ICR estimates. The estimated
ERR for individual bridges are significantly lower than those estimated in the SAR because of: (i) lower
traffic growth than forecast; (ii) delay in construction of the bridges by almost five years (bridges were
open to traffic in 1998 against 1993 assumed in economic evaluation at appraisal) thereby foregoing the
benefits for these years; and (iii) longer construction period of four years versus two years assumed in
economic evaluation during appraisal. However, the minimum individual ERR for completed bridges is
24 percent, well above the 12 percent threshold for economic investment in India, and the highest is 93
percent. The economic costs of the bridges at completion were lower by about 18 percent than those
estimated in SAR. The economic analysis is in Annex 3.
4.4    Financial Rate of Return:
Not applicable, as the Project was not designed to collect charges from the users for the improved
infrastructure.



- 9 -
4.5   Institutional Development Impact:
4.5.1  The Project's institutional development impact has been modest. Although the impact on MOST
has been limited, major improvements were achieved in the Indian road sub-sector with respect to road
engineering practices, construction techniques and standards, and procurement and contract management
practices. Furthermore, the project has facilitated the major development of the domestic road
construction industry. A large number of government and private sector personnel were exposed to
modern contract management practices. These impacts are attributed to this Project together with other
road and highway projects funded by the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) during the
period.
4.5.2 Through this Project and ADB-funded projects, the Bank and ADB have maintained a continuous
policy dialogue with MOST in road sector management reform in general, drawing on lessons learnt from
the implementation of the Bank-funded NBP and this Project. These efforts have led to the creation and
operationalization of the NHAI as a semi-autonomous entity responsible for major works program on the
national highway network, with a high degree of outsourcing to the private sector. Recently, NHAI has
been provided full authority for implementing and managing the NHDP, and has started to demonstrate
its comparative advantage as a semi-independent implementing agency. Through pre-investment studies
under this Project, the NHAI has developed strong capabilities in highway project preparation, integration
of the environmental and social aspects of highway projects. During the project implementation, a
revamped central road fund was also made operational, providing much needed stable source of funding
for the NHDP.
4.5.3  A TNA study carried out under the Project has identified the training needs related to the
development of the road sector. The TNA also recommended the establishment of a Technology Transfer
Unit but, because of the long delay in implementation, the TNA is not likely to have much impact on the
MOST and the PWDs in the short term. The permanent Training Center constructed under the Project,
although not fully operational, should contribute significantly in upgrading the skills of practicing
engineers from government, consultants and contractors, in coming years. Aside from upgrading the
specifications for Bituminous Pavement Layers, and preparation of the Manual for Construction and
Supervision of Bituminous Works and Manual for Safety in Road Design, little significant institutional
impact is expected from the other studies completed under the Project due to the lack of follow-up actions
from the MOST for dissemination and mainstreaming the findings and recommendations.
5.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1    Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency:
Although six of the 13 ICB contracts were awarded to local-foreign joint ventures (N), de facto,
all of those contracts were managed by the domestic partners. Even though the representative(s) of the
foreign partners were physically present at the work sites for most of these local-foreign JVs, the foreign
partners did not seem to be contributing much in terms of competent management, technical expertise and
additional fnancial resources. Also, the domestic partners did not allow a major management role to the
foreign partners. Thus, it seemed that the main purpose of the domestic partners to form the JV was to get
pre-qualified to win large contract(s) with the additional qualification of the foreign partner. At least in
three of those contracts, cash flow as well as poor management significantly affected the implementation;
basically, the domestic partners were unable to manage such large works. Out of the remaining seven
contracts awarded to domestic contractors, the contractor's resources mobilization was totally inadequate
in case of two contracts, leading to initial slow progress. All of the contracts suffered from slow
mobilization of the contractors.



- 10 -
5.2    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:
5.2.1  Approval of the revised cost estimates by GOI took a long time, which affected contract
administration and implementation of the civil works. Although the CMF defined the roles and
responsibilities of MOST and the State PWDs, absence of a clear owner-agent contractual relationship
between MOST and PWDs (through amendment of the National Highway Rules 1957, discussed during
the project Negotiations) led to indecision, poor coordination and delay in decision making. Lack of
effective coordination among various central and State government departments and local agencies often
resulted in delays in completion of pre-construction activities such as removal of utilities and trees and in
environmental and resettlement related matters. Although a PIC was set up within MOST, it was not
appropriately staffed as agreed during the appraisal, which led to delays in procurement, inadequate
monitoring and delays in response by MOST. Civil works implementation got affected by delayed
payments to the contractors in Orissa and Punjab due to non-availability of funds with the State
governments. Due to delays in completing the Railway Over Bridges or Under Bridges by Indian
Railways, opening of the completed highway sections got delayed.
5.2.2 Although a simplification in the procedures were agreed for the importation of equipment, the
foreign contractors were not satisfied with the procedures for import of new and used equipment as well
as regarding the income tax to be paid in India. The rules and regulations were not dealt with in a
transparent way--different interpretations were made by different government officials and tax
practitioners.
5.3    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
5.3.1 Insufficiently stringent pre-qualification criteria, together with their lax application, led to the pre-
qualification and selection of low-capacity contractors for large works. At least in one case, the domestic
partner of the JV, with little input from the foreign partner, struggled throughout the life of the contract,
causing major mismanagement and delays in works implementation. The poor quality of engineering
designs was also a major factor that negatively affected project implementation. Inadequate designs
required major revisions, and this led to delays. The worst case was in Orissa where the engineering
designs did not even show the main water supply pipe for Bhubaneswar. This caused an 18 to 24 months'
delay in execution of the works until the water main was shifted.
5.3.2 The CMF defined the roles and responsibilities of MOST and the State PWDs. However, the
decision making process on providing resources for the review of designs, changes in design, variation
orders, extension of time claim for works contracts, etc., sometimes took a long time, which affected the
contracts management and implementation. Some PWD Chief Engineers (CEs) took a long time to
review and agree/recommend (mostly having financial effect), as well as MOST took a long time to
respond/make decisions. The cash flow of the contractors was affected due to long delays in making
decisions on variation orders and PWDs withholding a part of payments recommended by the supervision
consultants. There were also problems with payments to the contractors with respect to the foreign
currency component; significant amounts were withheld by the employer for long periods due to
inadequate understanding of the contract provisions and payment procedures. There was inadequate
monitoring, intervention and visit to project sites by MOST officials. However, during the last two years
of implementation, MOST took a more proactive role in monitoring the progress of works and resolved
issues in order to complete all civil works within the original project closing date.
5.4    Costs and Financing:
Project Costs are presented in Annex 2. A comparison of project cost and financing between
Appraisal Estimate and Actual is presented below.



- 11 -
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate   Percenta  of Ap  isal
Component    Bank   Govt.   Total   Bank    Govt.   Total    Bank    Govt.   Total
Road            278.6  74.1   352.7   274.48  114.03  388.51     99     154      110
Modernization
Road Monitoring  1.4   0.1     1.5      0       0        0       0       0        0
Equipment
Institutional    5.5    1.5    7.0     3.73    4.44    8.17     68      296      117
Strengthening
Pre-investment   6.0    0      6.0     5.70    3.51    9.21      95              154
Studies
Orissa Bridges   14.5  3.6    18.1     9.15    2.95    12.10    63       82      67
Project Cost    306.0  79.3   385.3   293.06  124.93  417.99     96      158     108
5.4.i  The latest estimate of the total project cost is US$417.99 million, which is about 108 percent of
the appraisal estimate US$385.3 million. In terms of local currency however the total project cost is Rs.
16,922.89 million which is about 136 percent of the appraisal estimate of Rs. 12,400.7 million. When
compared to the SAR estimates, the major difference in the final project costs in US$ vs. Indian Rs. costs
can be attributed to the depreciation of the Indian Rs. vis-a-vis the US$. In 1992, the actual exchange rate
used for the project was Rs. 25.89/1 US$ was projected to reach about Rs. 35.5/1 US$ by 1999-00,
whereas the Indian Rs. had actually weakened to Rs. 43.3/1 US$ by 1999-00 and to Rs. 47/US$ by June
2001. The much higher price escalation in local costs for civil work contracts, due to delayed
implementation contributed, to substantial cost increase in Rs. terms. The Bank disbursement is about 96
percent of the appraisal estimates, whereas the GOI's contribution is 158 percent of appraisal estimates, in
US$ terms. The increase in government contribution is mainly due to the increase in non-Bank funded
costs, the government's inability to claim full reimbursement from the Bank, and to the large amount of
tax paid by the government towards the services of the foreign consultants (which had not been included
in the total project cost estimate at appraisal). The GOI could not claim full reimbursement from the
Bank because: (i) some works were carried out after the credit/loan closing; (ii) all claims were not
resolved; (iii) full payments were not made to be able to claim reimbursement from the Bank within the
stipulated time; (iv) some expenses were not claimed for reimbursement; and (v) some expenses could not
be reimbursed by the Bank in absence of proper documentation.
5.4.2  The cost of the road modemization (civil works) component increased by 10 percent in dollar
terms (US$389 million) as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$353 million, whereas the
corresponding increase in Rupee terms is 39 percent. The final costs in each of the six States varied
widely (from -20 percent to +31 percent in US$ and from +6 percent to +73 percent in Rs.) when
compared to appraisal estimates. Some of the increase in cost of the civil works component can be
attributed to the increase in the scope of works in two of the States, low cost estimates, and the generally
delayed implementation which caused substantial increase in Rupee costs.
5.4.3 The actual cost of the Institutional Strengthening component is US$8.2 million as compared to
appraisal estimate of US$7 million, even though training activities estimated at US$2.1 million and
preparation of several technical guidelmes and manuals were not taken up. The shortfall in training costs
was compensated by the increase in land acquisition and construction cost of the training center and in
cost of technical assistance. The actual cost of the Pre-investment Studies component is US$9.2 million
(for project preparation for more than US$ 1,000 million worth of highway works) as against US$6
million estimated at appraisal for project preparation of US$400 million worth of road works. This
increase was justified to help the GOI prepare part of the NHDP.



- 12 -
5.4.4 The actual cost of the Orissa Bridges component is US$12.1 million (Rs.427 million) as against
an appraisal estimate of US$18.1 million (Rs.584 million). Since this component was added during
credit/loan negotiation it did not allow more realistic costing. Early substantial completion of this
component as against the planned completion also led to reduced cost.
5.4.5  Although several minor items were added during the implementation of the project, as detailed
under paragraph 3.4, they did not impact the availability of funds for the original project activities. There
was no disbursement under the NH-II project for the remaining civil works of NBP (paragraph 3.4.1).
The only disbursement made for remaining components of the NHP was for the MBRJs procured under
the earlier States' Road Project (paragraph 3.4.2). This amounted to only US$637,960.
5.4.6 Finally, disbursements from the credit and loan are SDR 114.06 million (US$160.98 million), and
US$133.75 million respectively. SDR 2.14 million (US$2.73 million) and US$17.75 million were
cancelled from the credit account in January 2002 and from the loan account in April 2002, respectively,
leaving US$1.5 million in the loan account for implementation of the RAP in Orissa.
6.     Sustainabity
6.1   Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
6.1.1  The sustainability of the Project's objectives and outcomes is rated likely. The Project's physical
sustainability is likely not only because of the implementation of the physical works but also because of
the commitment by MOST and NHAI in maintaining the assets. The Bank's continuous involvement with
MOST and NHAI in road development gives the Bank some leverage to oversee MOST and NHAI's
performance in maintenance management. All the stretches modernized under the Project (except the
Indore Bypass) are already open to traffic and are functioning satisfactorily. The projected rapid increase
in traffic volumes should ensure the sustainability of the project benefits. The past record of operation
and maintenance of the NH network has not been very satisfactory. However, with the recently enhanced
budgetary provision and revamped Road Fund/collection of additional cess (levy) from the sales of motor
fuel, the maintenance of the NH network should improve.
6.1.2 The sections modernized under the Project (except the stretch in Madhya Pradesh) will be
integrated within the NH network under the NHDP being implemented by the NHAI. The NHAI will be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of these sections. The NHAI is in the process of
establishing Corridor Management Units (CMUs) on a pilot basis, under the Bank-assisted TNBP. The
CMUs will be responsible for axle load management, incidence management, pavement/bridge
management, right of way management, and traffic management on the NH network. The CMUs will
also undertake safety audits and undertake minor works improvements following the same. The concept
of CMUs is expected to expand to the whole NH network managed by the NHAI, and should help in
improving the operation and maintenance of the stretches of NHs improved under the Project. The NHAI
is also developing a Road Information System (RIS) under the Bank-assisted TNHP, which will be used
in prioritizing maintenance planning. The stretch in Madhya Pradesh is also expected to be well
maintained by MOST through the State PWD. It is likely that all the modernized NH sections under the
Project will be tolled. If this is the case, the revenues collected would be earmarked for the maintenance
of the highways, further ensuring their sustainability.
6.1.3  On the institutional front, the major improvements in the Indian road sub-sector achieved through
the Project with respect to road engineering practices, construction techniques and standards, procurement
and contract management practices, and domestic road construction industry, are expected to be
sustained. GOI has taken up a very large program of NHDP of four-laning about 13,000 km of NHs, and
also several States have taken up major programs to improve the State road networks. Thus, thanks to



- 13 -
this major road/highway development program in the coming years, the above achievements in the sub-
sector are likely to be sustained. Out of the various studies and improved technical guidelines and
manuals prepared under the Project, the 'Manual for Road Safety Design' should be gradually used by the
road engineering professionals in the country. The upgraded specifications prepared for bituminous
pavement layers have already been incorporated in the 'Specifications for Road and Bridge Works' of
MOST, and these specifications and the 'Manual for Construction and Supervision of Bituminous Works'
will be extensively used. The permanent Training Center built under the Project shall contribute
significantly in upgrading the skills of practicing road engineers and technicians.
6.1.4  While the institutional reform process of MOST did not meet the Project expectations, during the
project implementation period, NHAI has emerged as a rather effective agency in the development and
management of the core NH network. The creation and operationalization of NHAI during the
preparation and implementation of the Project, are likely to sustain and contribute very significantly in
development and management of the core NH network. NHAI has developed strong capabilities to
prepare large road infrastructure projects. NHAI's capabilities are expected to be sustained and indirectly
will help the institutional development MOST through cross fertilization. For example, although MOST
has not followed up on the recommendations of the TNA study, NHAI has prepared a detailed training
plan based upon the recommendations of the TNA and implementing the same under the Bank-funded
TNHP.
6.2    Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations:
MOST is in the process of handing over the modernized Project NH sections to NHAI. NHAI is
in the process of establishing Comprehensive Operation and Maintenance System (COMS) in all four-
laned sections including the sections completed under the Project. The COMS will include (i) routine and
periodic maintenance of the highway, and (ii) Highway Traffic Management System (HTMS). The
HTMS will include, inter-alia, electronic tolling, highway patrolling, emergency call booths, variable
message signs, ambulance services, crane services, etc. NHAI proposes to engage private contractors to
operate the COMS. COMS will operate under the CMUs. The broad financial analysis of the NHAI
shows that the toll collection will be more than the total cost of operating the COMS. The stretch in
Madhya Pradesh is not part of NHDP, and will therefore remain under the MOST, who will be
responsible for operating and maintaining the stretch through the State PWD. For this stretch also,
MOST plans to collect toll and use the toll income for operation and maintenance of the project stretch.
7.     Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending:
7.1.1  Although project preparation started in 1986, it was appraised in 1990 and presented to the
Bank's Board in 1992. Bank resources utilized during preparation were above average. About 300
person days were spent on field preparation missions from identification through appraisal stages of the
Project. The size of the Project was reviewed during the project appraisal in light of the Bank's earlier
experiences with road projects in India and the implementation capacity in the country. As a result or this
re-examination of the Project scope, the number of road sections to be improved was reduced from 12
sections in 11 States to seven sections in six States. As requested by the GOI during the project
negotiation, six flood damaged bridges of Orissa State were included in the Project. In order to minimize
implementation delays and risks and based on the experience in implementation of the then ongoing
Bank-funded NHP, the Bank team worked closely with MOST to: (a) define a CMF; (b) introduce large
contract packages to attract strong international contractors; and (c) tighten the pre-qualification criteria
for contractors for ICB.



- 14 -
7.1.2  However, despite the above attempts to improve the Project preparation, the Bank's performance
should be considered unsatisfactory. The civil works component was not ready for implementation at
the time of effectiveness and could only start on the ground two years after Project effectiveness. The
quality of project preparatory studies and engineering designs was below average and cost estimates were
weak. The economic evaluation in the SAR was based on 1989 costs and a construction period from
1991 to 1995. The evaluation was presumably prepared during appraisal in 1990 and was not updated
while finalizing the SAR in 1992, whereas the project costs were updated in 1992 and the construction
period adjusted to 1993 until 1999. The SAR had, therefore, an inherent inconsistency between the costs
and implementation schedule and the assumptions used in the economic evaluation.
7.1.3  Although the quality at entry as well as the Bank's performance have to be judged
unsatisfactory, it is clear that in 1992, after six years of preparation, the Bank faced a decision whether to
be involved in highway development in India or not and how. At the end, it was decided that to proceed
with the project was the best way to make a contribution to this important sector of the economy. The
unusually long implementation period (nine years) indicates that the project team had no illusion that
further preparation was needed before the works could actually start. Indeed, almost all project activities
were substantially completed within and close to the original project closing in June 2001, a far better
performance than under the NBP.
7.2   Supervision:
7.2.1  The Bank's overall rating for supervision is satisfactory. The Bank's Quality Assurance Group
(QAG)'s assessment in July 1999 on the Bank's supervision of the Project was 'satisfactory'. QAG rated
the Bank's supervision reports to be of excellent quality, and gave a 'highly satisfactory' assessment on the
realism of project performance ratings in the Project Status Report (PSR).
7.2.2 The Bank conducted 18 supervision missions from 1992 to 2001, with an average of two missions
per year. During the project implementation period, four different Bank staff were responsible for task
managing the Project. Although when there was a change in task management there was adequate
overlap, the frequency of task manager changes appears to be somewhat high. The skill mix of the
supervision teams was inadequate and procurement issues consumed much staff time. Limited inputs
were provided by institutional, environmental and financial management specialists during the early years
of project implementation. The MTR of the Project was carried out in July 1998. The main observations
and findings of the workshop led to a list of 37 points to improve the implementation of the Project. A
detailed review of the Project's institutional impacts and the impacts on the road sub-sector was
undertaken in mid-2000.
7.2.3  Since the Project roads were in six States, the Bank staff had to interact with six different State
PWDs in addition to the MOST, which required significant amount of Bank staff input. The supervision
of the Project was decentralized to the Bank's country office in early 1997, which facilitated closer
interaction with the MOST and the State PWDs in advising/resolving various implementation issues.
During the period 1997-2001, the Bank carried out a more intensive supervision effort, especially of the
civil works, which helped in resolving implementation problems and ultimately in substantially
completing all road works with satisfactory quality.
7.2.4  The Bank demonstrated flexibility in dealing with the changes in the original Project scope. For
instance, in the State of Orissa, one additional bridge was constructed in addition to the six agreed during
appraisal. Although almost all physical works were substantially completed within the original
credit/loan closing date, the Bank agreed to extend the loan closing date by 18 months to December 2002
to complete the implementation of the RAP in Orissa.



- 15 -
7.2.5  The Bank participated in, and supervised the preparation of the pre-investment studies
intensively. Through this Project, together with the recently completed Bank-funded States' Road
Infrastructure Development Technical Assistance Project (Loan 4114 IN), the Bank has taken an active
role towards upgrading the highway survey, investigation and design practices in the country, and
incorporating the environmental and social assessments in the project design process.
7.2.6  In spite of the absence of any EMP and/or RAP in the Project design, the Bank carried out its
safeguards responsibilities by actively assisting the implementing agencies in resettlement and
rehabilitation activities as well as by introducing environmental supervision m the last year in order to
raise awareness among the departmental, contractors, and consultants' staff. The Bank also introduced
supervision of financial management aspects after the MTR of the Project.
7.3    Overall Bank performance:
Despite the poor quality at entry, the Bankls overall performance should be considered
satisfactory. Through actively engaging MOST and PWDs under the Project, the Bank has been able to
positively impact the development of the road sub-sector in the country. This included major
improvements in road engineering practices, construction techniques and standards, and procurement and
contract management practices, as well as major development of the domestic road construction industry.
During the implementation of the Project, the role of the Bank and ADB was instrumental in
operationalizing the NHAI. During implementation, the Bank maintained an active dialogue with MOST
and NHAI on the development of the NH network, the study of the road construction industry, in
attracting foreign contractors to fill in the large demand created by the massive road construction program
undertaken by the GOI and the States, and in promoting the concept of a Road Fund. The Bank's
participation added value to these endeavors.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation:
Even though MOST and the State PWDs had only limited technical and managerial experience in
preparing large highway project, their performance in project preparation should be considered
unsatisfactory. The experience under thls Project highlighted several deficiencies in MOST's planning
and preparation process, such as an outdated cost estimating system, and not anticipating the difficulties
of procuring major works. The poor quality designs resulted in major design modifications and large
quantity of variation orders which contributed to major delays in the civil works. Furthermore, MOST
and the State PWDs paid very little attention during project preparation to the social and environmental
impacts that large road infrastructure projects such as the NH-fl Project can generate.
7.5    Government implementation performance:
The government's overall performance during implementation can be rated as satisfactory. The
availability of counterpart funding was timely and adequate except in the case of Orissa and Punjab. The
government adopted stricter pre-qualification of contractors, and made all efforts to complete all civil
works within the original Project closing date. However, the process of obtaining internal clearances for
cost estimates, bidding documents and evaluation reports was slower than expected, due to cumbersome
internal process involving State and federal agencies. Furthermore, the coordination among central and
State government departments and local agencies could have been better to expedite pre-construction
activities and construction of railway bridges.



- 16 -
7.6   Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  Overall, the implementing agency's perfornance should be considered marginally satisfactory.
However, the implementation arrangements under the Project did not work efficiently because all major
decision making authority was with MOST and not delegated at all to the State PWDs. All decisions with
financial implications were made by MOST and took a long time in many cases. There was inadequate
attention given by MOST in conducting studies and in training. The implementing agency's handling of
RAP in Orissa State was not satisfactory. On the other hand, the resettlement and rehabilitation activities
were implemented in West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh satisfactorily and with positive outcomes.
7.6.2  The civil works completed were of satisfactory quality, and despite initial delays, the project
succeeded in completing almost all physical targets within the original credit/loan closing date. The
implementing agencies monitored and resolved the implementation issues efficiently during the last
couple of years. The implementing agencies complied with the Bank's guidelines on procurement and
disbursement. The maintenance of project accounts was satisfactory. The audit reports were generally
received in time, and were found to be in order. Audit reports sometimes made some observations which
were followed up. MOST published the revised Specifications for bituminous works, prepared under the
Project, for wide dissemination and use in the country. It also completed construction of the permanent
Training Center satisfactorily.
7.7    Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance is satisfactory. This is especially the case if the project
preparation and implementation performance of the borrower during this Project is compared with the
borrower's performance during the preparation and implementation of the NHP where most of the project
objectives were not met. The borrower and the implementing agencies have complied with all the loan
covenants and project agreements, except that the resettlement action plan in Orissa is still to be
implemented. The Bank's procedures and guidelines were followed. MOST and subsequently NHAI
made major achievements in the use of private consulting firms in both project preparation and contract
supervision, adopting the Bank's recommended procurement procedures, and incorporating environmental
and social assessments effectively in the project designs (pre-investment studies). They are using the
Project's procurement documents, study and design process, and contract management practices, with
minor changes, for domestically-funded projects also. In spite of initial delays, completing almost the full
length of highway modernization within the original project closing date is commendable. Indeed, this
was not a simple project, involving nine implementing agencies with a loose institutional mechanism.
Nevertheless, the borrower completed almost all project activities, and most of these satisfactorily. The
project objectives were achieved.
8.     Lessons Learned
8.1    Quality Engineering Designs: The quality and adequacy of the initial engineering designs were
poor, mainly due to: (i) inadequate surveys carried out with out-dated survey technology; (ii) poor quality
site investigations; (iii) poor coordination between design office and site realities; (iv) lack of experience
of some consultants; (v) investigation and designs carried out at inordinately low cost; and (vi) inadequate
supervision of the design process by PWD/MOST. Currently, MOST, NHAI and PWDs are using
internationally experienced consultants extensively for investigation and design services, and the
consultants are using modern survey and design techniques. In addition, by carrying out environmental
and social assessments in tandem with the engineering design and preparing EMP and RAP, quality of
design and contract documents improves and implementation becomes smoother. This has dramatically
reduced the need to redesign roads once construction activities start, accelerating their implementation.



- 17 -
8.2    Clear Responsibilities for Project Management and Decision Making Process: The CMF did
not work as envisaged during the Project preparation process. The dual nature of responsibilities between
MOST and PWDs for project management diluted accountability and made coordination more difficult,
leading to delays. A long time was taken to revise cost estimates, decide on time extensions for works
contracts, approve variation orders, etc., which affected contracts management and implementation.
Delays also occurred in taking decisions on providmng resources for the review of poor designs and for
reviewing, finalizing, and approving design modifications. The establishment of the NHAI with full
responsibility for the NHDP, is a step in the right direction to focus accountability and responsibility for
implementation with one agency. In the long run, alternative arrangements, with clear lines of
responsibility, will have to be developed for the development and management of the rest of the NH
system also. Whether it will be the NHAI that will take over this role or a recast MOST is yet to be
determined.
8.3    Joint Venture (JV) Contracting Arrangements: JV operations (between foreign and domestic
contractors) failed to perform in the majority of the cases under this Project and have not produced the
desired effect. Stricter scrutiny of JV partners is essential at pre-qualification and award of contract with
regard to the structure of JV and responsibilities of the parties, and the JV arrangements should be
enforced during contract implementation. Contract size should also be appropriately increased to
encourage competent international contractors to enter the market. Domestic contractors should no longer
be pre-qualified on the basis of token participation by foreign contractors to get them pre-qualified.
8.4    Procurement: Time taken by GOI to finalize and for the Bank to clear procurement documents
was long due to disagreements between MOST and the Bank, on the need for changes in designs and
documents, and the lack of borrower knowledge of Bank's procurement guidelines. Currently, the use of
standard contract documents for Bank-funded projects, adjusted for India's specific conditions, as well as
use of standard pre-qualification document for Bank-funded projects, have reduced the procurement
delays that occurred under this Project. Procurement delays can also be avoided in future Bank-funded
projects through conducting seminars, workshops and training on procurement for the project staff, during
project preparation and at project launch. Finalization and agreement on procurement packages and
arrangements at appraisal (which is the current practice) would help avoid such situations.
8.5    Use of Realistic Construction Cost Estimates: The bid prices at the time of the contract award
were much higher than the initial cost estimates used as a basis for pre-qualification. This was because
cost estimates were made based on outdated PWD schedule of rates. As a result, many contractors'
capacity was much lower than actually required. Cost estimates based on prevailing market prices
should be used.
8.6   Implementation Readiness of Projects: The preparation process should ensure that the project's
various components should reach a certain stage of readiness for implementation at the time of project
approval. This would require that bids for civil works be received, consultant proposals evaluated, project
implementation unit fully staffed and equipped, and the project sites cleared of most obstructions. At the
time of preparing engineering designs, adequate attention should also be paid to site obstructions,
encroachments, underground and overhead utility lines. Cooperation and coordination among the
concerned government agencies regarding removal of site obstructions was inadequate thus adding further
to delays. For future projects, an effective coordination mechanism should be established among agencies
responsible for the removal of site obstructions and to acquire land.
8.7    Payment of Contractors, Foreign Currency, and Tax Liability Regulations/Procedures:
Payments to contractors by PWDs was often delayed due to clarifications sought by PWDs. Instead of
delaying payment on a particular Interim payment certificate (IPC), the amount as recommended by the
Engineer should be paid, and modifications and corrections should be done in subsequent IPCs. There



- 18-
were major problems with respect to the payment of foreign currency component to the contractors, and
significant amounts were withheld by the employer for long periods. The same was due to incorrect
interpretation of the contract provisions, lack of knowledge and initiative of the implementing agency
officials on modalities of foreign currency payments, disinterest of the domestic contractors in getting the
payments in foreign currency and interest to get equivalent amount in local currency, etc. Review of the
foreign currency requirements of the contractor by the client, training of, and maling the implementing
agency officials fully aware on correct interpretation of contract provisions and modalities of foreign
currency payments at the beginning of works contract, and clarifying/ modifying the contract provisions if
required, should smoothen the foreign currency payments. It is also necessary to rationalize if required,
clarify, and uniformly apply the tax liability for foreign contractors and consultants.
8.8    Construction of ROBs and RUBs: All ROBs and RUB constructed under the Project were
implemented by Indian Railways, and were delayed in all cases. In some cases, the completion of ROB
or RUB became a critical factor for overall completion of the road contract. In future, all ROBs and
RUBs should be included as part of road contracts. The road agency should consult the railways
regarding design and other related aspects.
8.9    Environmental management: One of the most important lessons learned is the necessity for
comprehensive environmental assessment and preparation of environmental management plan prior to
project start. This is the standard practice for all projects currently prepared by the Bank. In addition, the
lessons learnt are: (i) environmental management actions are inadequate if training is not provided to the
implementing agencies, the supervising engineers and the contractors; (ii) regular Bank supervision is
necessary to ensure adequate management of environmental issues during construction, particularly where
sufficient environmental management capacity does not exist with the implementation agencies; (iii)
compensatory afforestation through the State Forest Department is not effective in majority of the cases;
(iv) collaboration with various government agencies is helpful in implementing environmental
management activities; and (v) NGO participation can add value to the environmental management
process.
8.10   RAP implementation: Some of the key lessons learned from the implementation of the RAP
under the Project are as follows: (i) absence of RAP prior to start of Project leads to poor implementation
resulting in time and cost escalations; (ii) absence of baseline census surveys prior to displacement of
potential affected persons may lead to denial of targeted assistance to some of the affected persons; (iii) a
coordination committee consisting of members drawn from the project, State, local authorities and project
affected persons, significantly contributes to the successful implementation of resettlement program; and
(iv) integration of on-going government programs with resettlement may be possible if there are limited
number of people requiring the assistance.
8.11   Client ownership to implement institutional development component: Weak client
ownership and follow-up actions on some of the studies conducted highlighted the need to build up client
ownership of the institutional measures to be introduced and supported under a project. An institutional
analysis of MOST should have been undertaken with active client participation before the project
appraisal to develop and identify institutional development measures really desired and owned by the
client, and to develop appropriate assistance package to address particular weakness revealed during the
study.
8.12   Donor coordination: This is important to leverage capacity buildmg initiatives and to enhance
institutional impact, which need more than one project to materialize. The role that the Bank and ADB
played in the road/highway development program both at the Union and State levels has been mentioned
in paragraphs 4.5.2 and 7.3.



- 19 -
8.13   Multi State projects with several implementing agencies: As in the case of the NHP, the NH-
II Project was hampered by the fact that it involved GOI, six States and several implementing agencies.
This not only made the coordination of the implementation activities more difficult, but it also reduced a
sense of ownership by the participating agencies. Furthermore, the difficulty of implementing a multi
State Project was further compounded by the fact that the supervision resources provided by the Bank did
not fully take into account the logistical difficulties of adequately supervising a multi-State Project. To
properly supervise the Project, supervision resources (in terms of staff) should have been increased. In
order to increase the sense of ownership and provide adequate resources for project preparation and
implementation, the next generation of NH Projects with the NHAI cover fewer States.
9.     Partner Comments
(a)    Borrower/Implementinz Agenec:
1.     General
The Government of India (GOI) had received financial assistance from the World Bank for an
amount of approximately US$306 million equivalent for improvement and widening to four lanes of
selected sections of National Highways in six States. This project was referred to as the Second National
Highway Project (SNHP) (IBRD Loan No. 3470 / IDA Credit No. 2365). The Project was to be carried
out over a span of nine years. Details of Loan/Credit are as follows:
-      Date of signing of loan and credit  :  18 June 1992
-      Amount of IBRD Loan              :     US$153.0 million
-      Amount of IDA Credit             :     SDRI 16.2 million
(US$153.0 million equiv.)
-      Loan/Credit effective date       :     18 September 1992
-      Loan/Credit expiration date      :     30 June 2001
2.     Obiectives of the Proiect
(i)    To modernize key sections of the National Highway (NH) network, relieving these sections from
traffic congestion, reducing transportation cost and augmenting overall economic development
along these stretches;
(ii)   To promote institutional development by introducing improved road engineering and construction
standards, concepts of network management and contract management;
(iii)  To provide favorable environment for the road construction industry development by introducing
concepts of larger contracts, strict pre-qualification requirements and supervision of contracts by
qualified international consultants under a new contract management framework based on widely
popular FIDIC guidelines; and
(iv)   To promote transfer of highway construction and maintenance technology through training to
local technical staff.
3.     The Obiectives of the Proiect were to be Achieved throueh the Following Activities
(i)    Modernizing six sections of National Highways (civil works and supervision) comprising about
290 Km in length, in the States of Haryana, Punjab, Orissa, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra;



-20 -
(ii)   Reconstruction of six flood-damaged bridges on State Highways in the State of Orissa;
(iii)  Institutional strengthening through:
(a)    Fellowship and training in the supervision of road works for professionals and field staff;
(b)    Technical assistance to Ministry of Road Transport and Highways; and
(c)    Studies to prepare follow-up projects.
Procurement of Equipments for monitoring and managing the National Highway network;
However during mid-term review of the project in mid-1998, following additional items of work were
included in the project scope:
(i)    Consultancy for project preparation for four-laning of about 320 km of national highways in
Punjab State;
(ii)   Consultancy for implementation of Bridge Management System which was evolved through Pilot
Study for Bridge Management System completed under the project;
(iii)  Consultancy for development of: (a) a manual for design and construction of rigid (concrete)
pavements; and (b) a manual for design of highways;
(iv)   Financing of the balance of civil works of Punjab, Haryana, and Tamil Nadu sub-projects of the
Bank-financed First National Highway Project (Ln. 2534-IN) closed on December 31, 1993; and
(v)    Reimbursement for the Mobile Bridge Inspection Units (MBIUs) purchased under the State Road
Project (Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN).
4.     Attainment of Obiectives
All major objectives of the project were attained through a whole gamut of activities as
mentioned below:
(i)    All the six sections of selected National Highways were modernized and upgraded to 4-lane, 2-
way divided highway standards;
(ii)   Reconstruction work of Six no. of flood-damaged bridges on State Highways in the State of
Orissa was completed and all bridges were commissioned in 1998;
(iii)  Various studies and Manual preparation were completed through various consultancies. Technical
assistance was provided by the World Bank through the course of project implementation.
Training sessions were arranged for engineers drawn from various organizations to impart
knowledge about the latest technical and contractual advancements in highway construction
industry;
(iv)   Feasibility studies and project preparation for up gradation of approximately 1560 km. of NH
length in various States was completed as follow-up projects.



-21 -
Although the progress of civil works for the modernization of NH sections has been delayed,
almost all work have been substantially completed within the date of loan closure on June 30,2001, and
the objectives and benefits of the project are likely to be achieved.
5.     Implementation Details
(b)    Phvsical outcome of the project:
1.     Four-Laning and Upgradation of National Hi-hwavs
A total length of 290 km. of NHs was improved and upgraded to four- lane-divided highway
standard in six States, i.e. Haryana, Punjab, Orissa, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. As
per the World Bank guidelines, civil works in each State, i.e., each sub-project was further sub-divided
into two or three contracts, referred to as lots.
The loan was signed in June 1992, but civil works could start much later. On three sub-projects,
viz. Haryana, Punjab and Orissa, the civil works started in the first quarter of 1995. On the remaining
three sub-projects the civil works contracts were awarded in the second half of 1997. Exception was Lot
DI (Construction of Bassein Creek Bridge) of Maharashtra sub-project, which was awarded in March
1998. The start-up delays in case of the first set of the sub-projects were mainly due to late removal of
utilities, cutting of trees, etc. For the second batch of the three sub-projects, delay was mainly due to
environmental clearance (Maharashtra), resettlement and rehabilitation issue (West Bengal) and design
review (Madhya Pradesh). International Supervision Consultants were appointed to supervise the civil
works for each sub-project. MoRTH authorized respective State PWDs as procurement agencies to invite
bids and enter into contract agreement both for civil works and supervision consultancies. All the
procedures followed in the process were in accordance with the "Procurement Guidelines under IBRD
loans and IDA Credit" and "No Objection" from the Bank was obtained wherever necessary.
Orissa, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra sub-projects have been
substantially completed in December 2000, March 2001, June 2001, April 2001, August 2001 and
September 2001 respectively.
Orissa Sub-Proiect
A length of 27.8 km of NH-5 was widened to four-lane standard. The sub-project was divided
into three lots, Lot-I was for four-laning and strengthening, Lot-fl was for construction of 4 additional 2-
lane bridges and Lot-IE for construction of the major bridge across river Mahanadi. The work was
scheduled to be completed by July 1998 but could be completed in December 2000. The road section has
already been opened to traffic. Preparation of Rehabilitation Action Program (RAP) for persons
displaced from Jagatpur rotary area was completed in September 2000. Its implementation will stretch
beyond the loan closure date. The scheduled completion of implementation of Rehabilitation Action Plan
has been extended by the Bank up to December 2002 and an additional US$1.5 million has been
earmarked for the purpose.
West-Bengal Sub-Protect
A length of 35.4 km of NH-2 was upgraded to four-lane standard which included construction of
two Road Over Bridges (ROBs). The sub-project was divided in two lots. The project has been
substantially completed in March 2001. The R&R program has been completed successfully and all the
affected persons have been compensated in accordance with the World Bank guidelines.



- 22 -
Harvana Sub-Proiect
The sub-project was divided in two lots covering four-laning of a total 79.5 km length of NH-1.
Apart from four-laning, the project scope included two major grade separated structures. The sub-project
has been substantially completed in June 2001 as against its scheduled date of completion of July 1998.
Some cracks developed in the new as well as on the overlaid old carriageway for a substantial portion of
project road length. Suitable remedial measures to address this problem have been approved by MoRTH
and have been taken up by the contractor.
Puniab Sub-Prolect
A length of 40.1 km of NH-1 was upgraded to four-lane standard along with construction of a
major bridge on river Ghaggar. Construction of Ghaggar River Bridge was delayed due to excessive
settlement of foundation of two of its piers. Load testing of these piers was done and further construction
was resumed after the settlement stabilized. The sub-project was divided in two lots. The sub-project has
been substantially completed in April 2001 against the scheduled date of completion of September 1998.
The sub-project faced delays due to payment problems to the Contractors and remedial measures for
Ghaggar Bridge.
Madhva Pradesh Sub-Proiect
A length of 17.6 km of NH-3 was upgraded to four-lane standard along with construction of 32.2
km long four-lane bypass around Indore city. The bypass portion of the project has Cement Concrete
pavement. The sub-project has been substantially completed in August 2001 including R&R
implementation.
Maharashtra Sub-Proiect
The sub-project was sub-divided in three lots, two for four laning a total length of 57.0 km of NH
length and third for construction of Bassein Creek Bridge. The first two lots related to widening work
were substantially completed almost on time and the third lot was to be completed by September 2001.
The bridge construction work was scheduled to be completed substantially by the loan closure date but
could not be completed due to heavy monsoon rainfall.
2.     Bridee Reconstruction Project on Orissa State Highways
Reconstruction of six flood-damaged bridges in Ganjam district on State Highways was
undertaken by State PWD. Contracts were awarded under local competitive bidding and supervision was
done by Orissa State PWD itself. All the bridges have been constructed and opened to traffic in 1998.
3.     SuDervision Consultancy for Civil Works
Intemational Supervision Consultants were assigned to supervise the Civil Works for all the six
four-laning projects, to ensure stringent adherence to the quality of work specified in Contract Agreement.
For the Orissa State Road Bndge Project, however, Orissa State PWD carried out the supervision works
as in agreement with the World Bank. Performance of all the Supervision Consultancies was found
satisfactory in general as they ensured quality work throughout the project, helped in resolving arbitration
matters and suggested civil works contractors, ways to overcome technical obstacles while carrying out
various activities. As the civil works for the Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Orissa
sub-projects were delayed, the services of supervision consultancies were also extended to maintain
proper vigil on the civil works.



-23 -
4.     Institutional Strenwthenine
This was achieved through the following three activities:
(i)    Fellowship and Training
(a)    Construction of campus for National Institute for Training of Highway Engineers:
Construction work has already been completed in March 2001. Though this project was
approved way back in March 1995, and was sought to be completed by 1997, but due to
exceptional delay in 'No Objection' procedure at various stages, civil works could be
started only in July 1999. Acquisition of Furniture and Equipments is yet to be completed
(not under Bank-funding) without which the training institute cannot function effectively.
(b)   Training to Highway Engineers: With the concurrence of the World bank, various
special training courses have been arranged for imparting training to highway engineers
drawing trainees from different organizations like MoRTH, NHAI, various State PWDs.
The training focused mainly on the latest design and construction technology in highway
engineering, large contract management, FIDIC guidelines, etc.
(ii)   Training Assistance
(c)    Technical assistance to MoRTH: The Project Implementation Cell (PIC) of MoRTH was
provided with suitable technical assistance by the World Bank authorities and also by
intemational Supervision Consultants at various stages of Contract Management, Civil
works design revision and in effective use of the manuals and study reports prepared
under Bank-funded SNHP. Progress of all Extemally Aided Projects (EAPs) was
monitored using Management Information System and the Monthly/Quarterly Progress
reports.
(d)    Pilot Study for Bridge Management System: The Pilot Study to review the existing
Bridge Management System (BMS) and to select a BMS appropriate to India for
effective management and maintenance of bridges along National Highways has been
completed. The implementation plan for Bridge Management System has also been
developed under this study. Third National Highway Projects (TNHP) will include the
bridge management and maintenance program under its 'Corridor Management'
activities.
(e)    Road Safety Manual: The Manual has been prepared and available for sale in Indian
Road Congress (IRC). MoRTH has planned to arrange workshops in various States for
proper dissemination of manual contents. NITHE is also planning to arrange for training
courses on this.
(I)    Review of Specifications for Bituminous Material and Bituminous Pavement layers and
preparation of a Manualfor Construction and Supervision of Bituminous Works: The
specifications for bituminous materials and pavement layers have been reviewed and
recommendations made. Manual for Construction and Supervision of Bituminous Works
has been prepared and are to be published through IRC soon.
(g)    Proof Consultancy for Bassein Creek Bridge of Maharashtra sub-project: The proof
consultancy work of checking design and drawings for Bassein Creek Bridge project has



-24 -
already been completed. Actual construction work has been going on and is now likely to
be completed by September 2001.
(h)    Training Need Assessment. The study intended to assess the training needs of technical
officers of MoRTH, NHAI and State PWDs for meeting demands of road sector
development was completed in July 1999. MoRTH intends to seek funding for follow-up
training activities under the TNBP. MoRTH also plans to establish a Technology
Transfer Unit (ITU) at NITHE.
However a few other study projects and manual preparation works, included in the scope of the project at
the time of its inception and during mid-term review could not be taken up as the total loan and credit
amount was already committed to the other activities.
(iii) Studies to prepare follow-up Projects
(i)    The World Bank got conducted studies regarding need for improvement of following
sections of National highways under grant-aid:
(a)   Agra-Barwadda section of NH-2 in UP and Bihar States
(approx length 1000 Iam);
(b)   Tindivanam to Madurai section of NH45 in Tamilnadu
(approx length 240 1am)
The feasibility studies and project preparation for these sections was entrusted to NHAI who got it done
through various international consultants. Out of these 1240 kIn, about 480 km has also been included
under the Bank-funded TNHP. About 420 lan has also been proposed to be included in the GTREP under
preparation for financing by the Bank.
0)     During its mid-term review of the SNHP, MoRTH had included feasibility studies and
project preparation for about 320 km of NHs in State of Punjab, within the scope of
SNHP. The work was divided in two parts and studies for both the parts have been
completed.
5.    EquiDments for Monitoring and Manaeement of National Hiehwav network
Equipments identified during the project appraisal could not be procured. Later, the Bank agreed
to finance, conditionally, four Mobile Bridge Inspection Units (MBIUs) procured under the Bank-
financed State Road Projects (Ln 2994/Cr. 1959), from the project. However, reimbursement for only
three of these MBIUs has yet been made. In late 1999, it was agreed not to procure any other equipment
under this credit, as the full credit and loan amount was already committed.
Works By Contractors
The Second National Highway Projects (SNHP) comprised 15 civil works contracts. Of these, ten
were awarded to domestic contractors, four to joint ventures (JV) of foreign and domestic contractors and
one to a domestic contractor with 'technical assistance' from a foreign contractor. These contract lots
were of medium to large size.
This was the first time the contracts of this size and magnitude were awarded to Contractors and,
therefore lack of experience was to be expected. This showed in time required for mobilization, proper



- 25 -
planning and scheduling of various activities and resulted in slower progress. The average monthly
outputs by the contractors were much less than scheduled. As a result, the work performance had to be
revised frequently.
The contractors did suffer some cash flow problems in some cases. However, they did not show
sufficient inherent financial strength to tide over the situation. Their own investment was not sufficient to
mobilize adequate resources and equipment, which caused delays in completion.
The contractor's work programme and adherence thereto left much to be desired. They failed to
identify the critical activities in their work programme and take suitable and timely remedial action.
In cases of JV, it was found that the foreign partners had only 'token' participation in the project.
In most of the cases a few foreign personnel were provided by them to give technical support.
Experience
(i)    The Contractors need to have a well-planned CPM/PERT based implementation schedule,
whereby they can identify the critical activities and concentrate on their completion.
(ii)   The Contractors need to have adequate financial strength of their own and should not entirely
depend upon advances and cash flows under the project.
(iii)  Prior to award of contract, discussion must be held with contractor on his mobilization schedule,
cash requirements, equipment capacity and availability and extent of participation of foreign
partner in terms of personnel/equipments/technical assistance. The contractor should make
himself fully aware of the project needs and resources required for implementation. He needs to
satisfy the employer that he will be able to fulfill his obligations under the contract.
In SNHP itself, such prior discussion held for West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra sub-
projects resulted in early mobilization and substantial completion of project with small time over-runs.
Works by Supervision Consultants
All the six sub-projects related to widening of NHs were supervised by international consultants.
The supervision work for various sub-projects was generally satisfactory.
However, in some instances it was observed that the Supervision Consultants (SCs) should have
been more pro-active in giving advance warning to the employer about impending delays, which could
have saved the employer from suffering time and cost overrun. As extension of civil works contracts
necessitates extension of Supervision Consultancy services also, the financial consequences of the time
overruns are compounded. This should have been appreciated by SCs.
It was also found that SCs did not on many occasions show any sense of urgency in taking
decisions on matters within their purview. In some cases, the contractors' claims were simply forwarded
to the employer without proper analysis.
There were requests for frequent changes in key personnel of supervision team, which hampered
smooth progress of project. Some of the key personnel were not able to maintain cordial relationship with
the Employer.



-26 -
Experience
(i)    Supervision Consultants should be more pro-active and keep Employer's interests in mind
without compromising with their role as Engineer.
(ii)   The contractor should not only be kept well informed about inadequacies of the resources and
consequential slow progress, but also be served with notice/warning under the contract wherever
he fails to respond.
(iii)  SCs should help contractors in overcoming technical difficulties and take prompt decisions.
(iv)   The visiting World Bank's missions should hold discussions with contractor, consultant and the
Employer and drive home the need for close cooperation among all concerned.
(v)    The Standard Consultancy Contracts of the Bank do not provide for sufficient remedies against
indifferent performances by Consultants. The Standard Documents need to be reviewed by the
Bank.
Work by State PWDs
Public Works Departments (PWDs) in the respective States were the contractual employers for
civil works and consultancy contracts. They implement National Highway projects on behalf of MoRTH
on agency basis. Their role in the implementation of SNHP has to be reviewed against this light.
The PWDs generally performed their role satisfactorily. However, they could have responded in a
much better way in the following areas:
(i)    Ensuring that land free of encumbrances is made available to the contractors without any delay by
ensuring proper inter-departmental coordination within the State Government.
(ii)   Making timely payment to the contractors by avoiding delays in issue of Letter of Credit in their
favor by the Finance Department of the respective States.
(iii)  Dispensing of quickly the SCs recommendations on Extension of Time, prolongation costs,
design changes or making timely reference to MoRTH.
(iv)   Complying with the requirements of GOI by submitting proposals for Revised Cost Estimates,
revision/variation of Contracts.
Experience
(i)    Implementation of the projects through State PWDs, which are themselves subject to State
Government's rules and procedure, introduces many layers of decision-making, which is
counterproductive to fast completion of projects.
(ii)   States' assistance is of extreme importance in matters of land acquisition, relocation of utilities,
clearances like forest and environment. The mechanism for such approval needs to be improved.
(iii)  Future implementations of projects with the help of States should be based on a different model,
which should have States in the supporting role rather than in the role of contractual Employer.



-27 -
Work by MoRTH
Under the agreed Contract Management Framework (CMF) for SNHP, MoRTH was to act in
capacity of Owner, implementing the project through respective State PWDs and monitoring the project
progress from its Head Quarters.
A special unit named Project Implementation Cell (PIC), headed by a Chief Engineer, was set up
in the Ministry. Two Superintending Engineers and supporting staff comprised the team to monitor the
project progress in close coordination with different zones of Ministry dealing with concened States as
well as to liaise with the Bank, Department of Expenditure of Ministry of Finance and other concerned
Central and State Government agencies in connection with various matters to ensure smooth progress of
project.
Technical and financial matters pertaining to individual sub-projects were handled by different
Chief Engineers. PIC interacted closely with the Bank and furnished the clarification, information and
other details as required. Internally, within the organization it coordinated with various Chief Engineers
and Finance Wing to facilitate prompt technical and financial clearances to Revised Cost Estimates of
Projects and allocate necessary funds. It monitored loan disbursement, reviewed progress, performance of
Contractors, Consultants and State PWDs.
Experience
(i)    Due to lack of timely response from the States, it took considerable time in completing procedural
formalities concerning revision of cost estimates, extension of time, approval of variations, etc.
(ii)   The Project Implementation Unit in the States was headed by Chief Engineers of respective State
PWD. The duality of control is not conducive to prompt decision making an accountability gets
somewhat diluted.
(iii)  The implementation arrangement needs to be modified by introducing (a) unified control over
implementation unit, (b) more delegation at implementation level and (c) a more effective system
of accountability.
(iv)   Some State Governments failed to make timely payment to the Contractors and Consultants,
which seriously affected project progress. The fund flow to the project needs to be direct from
MoRTH to the Projects.
Work by the World Bank
The various World Bank missions from Washington and its New Delhi Office closely monitored
the project in association with PIC of MoRTH and the sub-project States. The Bank's missions followed
up with PIC and occasionally with Director General (Road Development) and also with Secretary,
MoRTH.
Experience
(i)    It was very rewarding experience in associating with the Bank, particularly its local New Delhi
Office.



-28 -
(ii)   The Bank has been quite appreciative of the Government's procedures on involving technical and
financial delegation, and the sensitivities of the relationship between MoRTH, PWDs,
Contractors and Consultants.
(iii)  The Bank will continue to play the catalytic role in improving performance of the Highway
Sector.
6.     Operational Plan
All the stretches upgraded under the SNHP are already open to traffic after their construction and
are functioning satisfactorily. These stretches were planned to be tolled sections after their completion.
The planning for implementation of tolling arrangements will depend on the Government policy likely to
be decided soon. The Second National Highway Project, now completed, will be integrated with the
ambitious National Highway Development Program (NHDP) under which four- lane-divided National
Highways length is being developed to connect the four Metropolitan, namely New Delhi, Kolkata,
Chennai and Mumbai and also connecting the extremities of the Country through North-South-East-West
Corridor. The various projects prepared under the SNHP will be taken up with the help of external aid or
from internal resources. The findings of various consultancies related to highway design, construction,
maintenance and Network development will also be implemented during Third National highways
Projects (TNHP) and Grand Trunk Road Inprovement Program (GTRIP) being taken up by external
assistance.
(b)    Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c)    Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A



- 29 -
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix             Projected in last PSRI         Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduction in Travel Time on the  20 percent                  Punjab and West Bengal - 32 percent
highways modernized under the                                Maharashtra - 19 percent
Project                                                      Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa
- 4 percent
Road sub-sector in the country uses  Achieved                 Achieved
modem survey, design and
construction techniques
Road network monitoring and                                  No
management improved
Contract Management practices   Achieved                      Achieved
improved.
Output Indicators:                                                                            l
Indicator/Matrix             Projected in last PSRI         Actual/Latest Estimate
Six sections of national highways  290 km                     290 km (257 km opened to traffic at
modernized                                                    end of Project; although main
carriageways of the 32.6 km long new
Indore Bypass were completed before
June 2001, the full Bypass
substantially completed in October
2001; 556 m long Bassien Creek
Bridge completed in September 2001)
Road roughness of modemized     IRI 2.5 to 4.0                Flexible Pavement - Average 2.5
highways reduced                                             (varying between 2.1 and 3.1)
Rigid Pavement - 4.25
Training Centre constructed and  Operational                  Operational from October 2001
operational
Training Program developed, and  10 MOST staff and 280 PWD
MOST and PWD staff trained      staff trained in India. 40
Engineers trained abroad.*
Improved technical guidelines and  Nine numbers*              Three numbers
mnanuals developed
Pre-investment studies completed  1340 km                     1410 km completed by June 2001.
Another 125 km completed in August
2001
Cyclone damaged bridges in Orissa  Six numbers                Six numbers
reconstructed
End of project
* As projected in SAR



- 30 -
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal        Actual/Latest     Percentage of
Estimate          Estimate          Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million       US$ rnillion
Road Modernization                    352.70            388.51             110
Road Monitoring Equipment              1.50
Institutional Strengthening            7.00              8.17              117
Pre-investment Studies                 6.00              9.21               154
Orissa Bridges                        18.10              12.10              67
Total Baseline Cost                   385.30            417.99
Total Project Costs            385.30             417.99
Total Financing Required             385.30            417.99         _
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                  282.30       54.40         0.00         0.00        336.70
(225.60)     (43.40)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (269.00)
2. Goods                   1.50         0.30         0.00         0.00          1.80
(1.40)       (0.30)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.70)
3. Services                0.00         0.00         35.30        0.00         35.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (35.30)      (0.00)       (35.30)
4. Land Acquisition        0.00         0.00         0.00         4.20         4.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Project                 0.00         0.00         0.00         7.30          7.30
Administration            (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous           0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                  283.80        54.70        35.30         11.50       385.30
(227.00)     (43.70)       (35.30)      (0.00)       (306.00)



- 31 -
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                   344.34         14.99         0.00          5.82         365.15
(260.44)      (11.34)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (271.78)
2. Goods                    0.00          0.00          0.00          0.59          0.59
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         34.36          0.00         34.36
(0.00)        (0.00)       (21.28)        (0.00)       (21.28)
4. Land Acquisition         0.00          0.00          0.00          7.29          7.29
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Project                  0.00          0.00          0.00          9.23          9.23
Administration             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (.)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00          0.00          1.37          1.37
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.0
Total                   344.34         14.99         34.36         24.30        417.99
_   (260.44)      (11.34)       (21.28)        (0.00)      (293.06)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shoppmg, consulting services, training, technical assistance
services.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Appraisal Estimate       ActualLatest Estimate         Appraisal
Bank     Govt.    CoF.     Bank     Govt.    CoF.    Bank     Govt.  CoF.
Road Modernization   278.60   74.10             274.48   114.03            98.5  153.9
Road Monitoring       1.40     0.10                                        0.0    0.0
EqTlipment
Institutional         5.50     1.50              3.73     4.44             67.8  296.0
Strengthening
Pre-Investment        6.00                       5.70     3.51             95.0
StudiesI
Orissa Bridges       14.50     3.60              9.15     2.95             63.1   81.9
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TOTALS               306.00   79.30           1293.06    124.93            95.8   157.5



- 32 -
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic and Financial Analysis
Preface
1.     The economic evaluation is carried out for the following six components of the National Highway
Project, Part A of the project;
(i)    Punjab              Ambala (212.1km)    Sirhind (252.1km)
(ii)   Haryana             Karnal (132.6km)    Ambala (212.1km)
(iii)  Maharashtra         Manor (439.0km)     Bassein (497.0km)
(iv)   West Bengal         Brakar (438.6km)    Ranigunj (474km)
(v)    Orissa              Bhubaneswar (Okm)   Jagatpur (27.8km)
(vi)   Madhya Pradesh      Indore (574.kn)     Dewas (591.6mn)
Indore bypass
and, for the reconstruction of six bridges in Ganjam district of Orissa which were washed away or
damaged by the cyclone, Part B of the project.
2.    It summarizes the economic evaluation methodology of the SAR. The economic evaluation is
based on re-evaluation of traffic data, the implementation costs and the cost and benefits of the project
components.
Economic Evaluation Methodology, SAR
3.     The methodology used in SAR for economic evaluation, for Part A projects, is summarized
below:
(i)    The economic cost for each component was calculated by converting the financial cost,
excluding contingencies, at constant 1989 prices, by multiplying by a factor of 0.8 to net
out all taxes and transfers;
(ii)   The construction period for each component was considered as 5 years and the project econoinic
life as 15 years after completion;
(iii)  The traffic growth rates were estimated based on the likely growth of the area of influence for
each component for local traffic and on national parameters for through traffic. The traffic
growth rates were calculated in five-year intervals with decreasing traffic elasticities, which were
based on India's Planning Commission;
(iv)   The 'without' case assumed continuation of the current maintenance practices (at increasing costs
because of increasing traffic volumes). The 'with' case assumed widening of the roads to 4-lane
including a more intensive maintenance strategy;
(v)    The benefits considered were due to reduced vehicle operating costs resulting from improved
riding quality, increased speeds of the vehicles resulting in time savings and reduced maintenance
costs; and
(vi)   A salvage value at the end of the analysis period was set to 33 percent of the investment costs.



-33 -
For Part B of the project the benefits for the washed away bridges was estimated as savings in the
vehicle operating cost of avoiding the long detours and for the damaged bridges the main benefits were
avoided repair costs and increased maintenance costs of keeping the bridges in use. Construction cost
estimates included substructure, the superstructure, approaches where necessary, land acquisition cost,
cost of surveys, soil investigations, work supervision and price contingencies. The financial cost
estimates were converted into economic costs, at border prices, by using the factor 0.8, standard
conversion factor for India. Economic costs also did not include price contingencies as the costs were in
constant prices. The economic analysis followed the IRC's prescribed method which has been accepted
by the Bank.
4.     Road Improvements, Part A of the Project: In the SAR, the net benefits and the ERR were
estimated using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model m (HDM E) which simulates
life cycle conditions, estimates road agency and user costs, and provides economic decision criteria for
alternative maintenance or improvement investments. The SAR presented only the internal economic
rates of return (ERR) for each investment option as well as the overall project ERR, see Table I but it did
not present the net present value of the components or the project. The estimated ERR for the project was
45.2 percent and the individual ERRs varied from 37.6 percent to 62.2 percent. In case of Maharashtra
component the ERR estimates included the Bassein Creek Bridge. The HDM m did not consider the
impact of congestion at the time of SAR and therefore benefits from reduced congestion were not
included.
5.     The different road sections had a traffic ranging from 6300 vehicles a day for the Indore bypass to
16,500 vehicles a day on Bassein Creek bridge. The average daily traffic (ADT) volume on the project
roads was about 9,000 vehicles per day (vpd) in the year 1991, the project start date. The traffic was
estimated to grow 4 to 4.5 times in the next 20 years resulting in an annual growth rate of 6.7 percent to
7.5 percent. Traffic for the Indore bypass was estimated by identifying the through traffic passing
through the city.
6.     Reconstruction of Bridges, Part B of the Project: The ERR for the six bridges, (i) over
Ghodahada near Maulabhanja, (ii) over Jorau near Sorada, (iii) over Rushikulia near Aska, (iv) over
Ghodahada near Hinjili, (v) over Mahanadi near Aska, and (vi) over Loharkhandi near Bhanjanagar had a
rate of return higher than 47 percent in the SAR and were as high as 116 percent, well above the 12
percent, and therefore well justified and of high priority.
Economic Evaluation Methodology, ICR - Part A
7.     Updating the ERR In SAR at 1995 Level: The SAR had presumed that the project construction
would start in 1991 and the improved roads and the rehabilitated bridges would be open to traffic in 1996
or earlier. However, there were delays in awarding contracts for road improvement and in all cases the
road works started from 1995 onwards. Reasons for delay in project implementation are discussed in
detail in other sections of the report. The roads were open to traffic, in most cases, in the beginning of
2001. In view of delayed start in construction, the economic analysis carried out in the SAR was updated
to reflect this change and for proper comparison with ICR results.
8.     To update the ERR values in SAR to 1995 base level, the total economic cost at 1989 prices for
each of the road component was revised to 1995 base price by multiplying it by a factor of 1.89,
equivalent to increase in whole sale price index (WPI) from 1989 to 1995 for the country. The unit cost
of different inputs for HDM m model were obtained from the Bank and ADB financed feasibility studies
for improvement of roads in India during 1995. The SAR has considered the improvement benefits for a
period of 15 years after opening of the road, i.e. till the end of 2010. In the revised analyses, the period of
analysis was extended to 2014 to have the same 15 year period for benefits. Traffic for the last 4 years



- 34 -
was projected at the same rate as for the last period in the SAR for each of the road component. The
revised ERR base year 1995 are tabulated below;
Table 1: Economic Rate of Return for different base periods
S.No.                Link Name                  ERR,      ERR,      NPV 1995
1991      1995        (Rs. M
1.   Ambala (212.1km)     Sirhind (252.1km)  62.2%      50.2%       3607.52
2.   Karnal (132.6km)    Ambala (212.1km)     41.5%     47.8%       3847.47
3.   Manor (439.0km)     Bassein (497.0km)    43.3%     56.9%       8589.05
4.   Brakar (438.6km)     Ranigunj (474km)    49.3%     33.7%        1558.33
5.   Bhubaneswar (Okm) Jagatpur (27.8km)      37.6%     20.8%        821.14
6.   Indore (574.km) Dewas (591.6km)          37.7%     47.6%        1029.64
7.   Indore bypass                            53.7%     37.6%        1730.25
Total Road Component                    45.2%     43.3%        21183.40
9.     On link to link basis, there are significant differences in the ERRs for the 1991 and 1995 base,
some cases being higher while others being lower. However, for the road component as a whole the
ERRs for the 1991 and 1995 bases are of the same order, 45.2 percent and 43.3 percent respectively.
SAR has also not indicated the NPV of each component and these were calculated while revising the
economic analysis. Since input data used for the economic analysis using HDM m model in SAR were
not available, model simulation was carried out using input data from other sources with the traffic and
cost data available in SAR for the Punjab road component to achieve the ERR close to the SAR value.
The estimated ERR was 62 percent compared to 62.2 percent in SAR.
10.   Revised traffic projections: Once the data inputs for the HDM m have been finalized through
simulation and are same for both SAR and ICR, the difference in ERR and NPV would arise from only 3
factors viz, i) traffic growth, ii) yearly construction cost, and, iii) construction schedule for project
completion. Traffic growth on a road section is dependent on exogenous factors related to economic
growth, structure of the economy and the population growth. India's economy has undergone major
changes since 1991, the year the SAR was prepared and could not have accounted for the structural;
changes that have taken place due to economic reforms ushered in 1991.
11.   Vehicle-wise traffic growth rates, between 1991 and 2001, for each of the section were revised
based on the traffic count data for the year 2001 and the past traffic given in the SAR. The traffic growth
rates as envisioned in the SAR and as determined from the traffic data at two points of time, 1991 and
2001 are tabulated in Table 2. In most cases the projected traffic in the SAR had been on the higher side.



-35 -
Table 2: Estimated and Observed Traffic in ADT and Growth Rates
Section            Traffic Estimates, SAR 2001          Actual Traffic, 2001
Traffic     Growth percent       Traffic     Growth percent
Ambala- Sirhind          21886 ( 8633)        9.7            18660            8.0
Kamal- Ambala            22382 (10069)        8.3            20411            7.3
Manor- Bassein           38530(16514)         8.8            38039            8.7
Brakar- Ranigunj         17612 (8815)         6.2            10848            2.1
Bhuvneshwar- Jagatpur    18198 ( 8314)        8.1            10238            2.1
Indore- Dewas            23303 ( 8824)        10.2           10370            1.6
Indore Bypass*           16164 (6306)         9.8             7946            2.3
Note: Figures in ( ) are traffic in 1991.
*Bypass is still not open to traffic and the traffic is estimated using the O-D matrix and assuming traffic diversion factor of 0.5
for cars, 0 5 for buses, 0.9 for LCV and 1.0 for HCV and MAV. These numbers are significantly on higher side as a rmni-bypass
to the city was constructed in 1993 and the bypassable traffic uses it.
12.    Traffic in 2001, mainly commercial traffic, has fallen due to downward trends in industrial
production in the current year. This is also reflected by the fall in consumption of high speed diesel
(HSD) by 5.3 percent in the current year. The future traffic growth has been updated in response to the
past trends. The future vehicle-wise traffic growth rates for each road section are presented in the
Table 3.
Table 3: Vehicle-wise annual traffic growth rates, 2001 onwards (percent)
Section           Car          Bus          LCV          HCV          MAV
Ambala - Sirhind        7.0           6.6          7.8          6.0           6.0
(9.1)        (7.6)         (7.2)        (7.2)        (7.1)
Karnal - Ambala         9.0           5.0          5.5          5.0          15.0
_   (8.8)         (7.3     _   (5.3         (5.3)         (5.3)
Manor - Bassein         7.5           8.0          6.6          6.6           6.6
(7.9)        (6.6)         (6.6)        (6.6)        (6.6)
Barakar - Raniganj      5.0           3.0          4.5          4.5           4.5
(8.2)        (6.8)         (4.5)        (4.5)        (4.5)
Bhubaneswar -           5.0           5.0          5.0          5.0           5.0
Jagatpur                (7.4)        (6.4)        (6.2)         (6.2)        (6.2)
Indore - Dewas          5.0           5.0          12.0         5.0          12.0
(10.8)        (9.0)        (6.8)         (6.8)        (6.8)
Indore Bypass           5.0           7.0          9.5          5.0           9.0
(10.8)        (9.0)        (6.8)         (6.8)        (6.8)
Note: Numbers in () are the growth rates used in SAR
13.    Revised Economic Costs: The yearly financial costs for each section were deflated to 1995
costs using the wholesale price index for the corresponding year with respect to 1995 prices. A factor of
0.8 was used to convert the financial costs to economic costs as in the SAR, even though in 1995 the
factor used to convert the financial cost to economic cost was 0.9 as the Indian economy has undergone
structural changes since 1991. Actual and SAR financial and economic costs are compared in Table 4.
14.    Economic Benefits and Evaluation: Economic analysis includes all the benefits as identified in
SAR. The benefit streams were calculated using the same unit cost parameters as in the revised



- 36 -
calculation for 1995 base for the SAR cost and benefits. Only the economic costs, the year of
construction and the traffic streams have been modified to reflect the actual values. The cost-benefits
analysis was done using HDM HI model. Estimated ERRs for each of the section are compared against
the SAR modified ERRs in Table 5. The total ERR and NPV of the project, Part A, were 24.70 percent
and Rs. 9,741 million much lower than the 43.3 percent and Rs. 21,183 million respectively estimated in
SAR for 1995 base mainly because of increased cost of construction and reduced traffic growth.
Table 4: Actual Costs versus Estimated Costs in SAR
Road Section          Final Costs (Rs. million)      SAR Costs (Rs. million)
(199 prices)                   (19 1 prices)
Financial     Economic       Financial       Economic
Ambala - Sirhind           1854.00        1483.20        536.90          429.5
_____ _____ __  __ _____ ____(725.80)
Karnal - Ambala            3259.98        2607.98        860.60          688.50
(1301.20)
Manor - Bassein            2430.24        1944.18        723.90          579.10
(1094.50)
Barakar - Raniganj         1153.28        922.62         578.10          462.70
(874.50)
Bhubaneswar - Jagatpur     2241.62        1793.30        922.90          738.30
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ______ ______   _______ ______(1 3 9 5 .4 0 )
Indore-Dewas                523.46        418.77         202.10          161.70
______ ______   _____ ______(305.60)
Indore Bypass              1417.09        1133.67        408.20          326.80
1   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _(6      17 .60)
Note: Figures in 0 are the.equivalent 1995 costs in SAR
Table 5: Comparison of economic rate of return (ERR), SAR and ICR
Road Section                Economic          Economic Returns, ICR
Returns, SAR
ERR, %        NPV, Rs. m      ERR, %         NPV, Rs. m
Ambala - Sirhind           50.20          3607.50        25.90           1944.67
Karnal - Ambala            47.80          3847.50        15.73           732.72
Manor - Bassein            56.90          8589.10        51.14           7069.18
Barakar - Raniganj         33.70          1558.30        21.28           733.72
Bhubaneswar - Jagatpur     20.80          821.10           1.3          -820.22
Indore - Dewas             47.60          1029.60         15.96           82.11
Indore Bypass              37.60          1730.30        15.81           210.33
15.    Sensitivity Analysis: Besides the normal growth traffic scenario, adjusted to reflect the past
traffic growth rates, two traffic growth rate scenarios were also considered for economic benefit analysis,
one with 20 percent lower traffic growth rate and other with 20 percent higher traffic growth rate. The
ERR and NPV for the total project, Part A, for the two scenarios is summarized below and a combined
cost and benefit flow for Part A project is also attached:



-37 -
l     Low traffic growth           High Traffic Growth
Best estimates of ERR, %               22.92%                        24.79%
NPV ( 12%, Rs. million                  8,412                        10,948
Note: Total NPV includes the Indore bypass with estimated traffic as the bypass is not yet open to traffic. It has been assumed
that all the traffic using the mini bypass constructed by the Indore Development Authority in 1993 and used by trucks and
through traffic to bypass the city network, would use the new bypass. This assumption may not be valid as there are large
number of transport offices set up along the mini-bypass and these would need to be shifted to adjoining new bypass. The NPV
of Part A would reduce by Rs. 366 million if only half of the traffic using the mini-bypass is assumed to divert to the new bypass.
Part B - Reconstruction of Bridges in Orissa
16.    The bridge reconstruction works started in 1994-95 and these bridges were open to traffic in
1998. Economic evaluation of the completed bridges has been carried out from 1991 onwards. The
actual yearly construction costs have been deflated to 1991 prices by using the inflation factor for each
year. Actual total cost of the 6 bridges at 1991 prices was Rs. 28.07 crores as compared to SAR cost of
Rs. 33.28 crores. The financial costs were converted to economic costs by using a factor of 0.8, same as
in the SAR.
17.    Traffic on different bridges were forecast using the estimated traffic at each bridge in the SAR
and the actual traffic in 2001. The traffic growth in all cases were much lower than the estimated growth
of 7.5 percent in SAR (refer to Table 6). The overall ERR of the bridges also lower due to delay m
construction of bridges, longer construction time and lower traffic growth. However, the ERR in all cases
were higher than 24 percent, more than the 12 percent required for investment decisions in India. The
comparative economic costs, ERRs, traffic growth rates for the 6 bridges are given in Table 6.
Table 6: Economic Analysis of Bridges - Comparison with SAR
Economic Costs at 199 prices      Traffic Growth                 ERR
SAR       Actual     SAR     Actual    SAR       Actual     NPV @
12% Actual
Rushikulya       612.0     580.76      75       6.8      62.0      31.72      830.80
Mahanadi         626.0     464.99      7.5      4.5      116.0     59.56      2019.56
Ghodahad         349.0     272.36      7.5     5.95      105.0     92.94      2910.08
Ghodahad         531.0     215.10      7.5     5.95      99.0      24.15       165.12
Maulabhaija                                                     I          I
Jorou-I          386.0      264.7      7.5     6.06      47.0      26.49      377.67
Loharkhandi      358.0     344.48      7.5     3.38      65.0      33.52      426.15
Overal          2662.0     2245.23                                 47.04      6729.36



- 38 -
Adopted Traffic and Growth Rates for Revised Analysis
Year              I   Car   I Bus    I LCV    HCV   |MAV
Srihind - Ambala Section of NH-1
Observed
2001                               6500     1593    1752   7794      167
Traffic- 1995                      4025     1010    1023   5342      245
Growth percent 1995-2000            8.3      7.9     9.3    6.9      6.9
Assumed Growth percent 2001         7        6.6     7.8     6        6
onwards
SAR Report
Traffic Estimate - 1995            4541     1018    1085   6061      126
Growth percent 1995-2000           10.2      8.1     9.4    9.4      9.5
Growth percent 2001 onwards         9.1      7.6     7.2    7.2      7.1
Barakar - Raniganj (NH-2)
Observed
2001                                3211     1635   270    5645       87
Traffic - 1995                      2782     1456   514    4635       93
Growth percent 1995-2000            2.5       1.9   -10.2   3.4      -1.2
Assumed Growth percent 2001          5         5     4.5    4.5      4.5
onwards
SAR Report
Traffic- 1997                       4250     2061   1150 15894       143
Growth percent 1997 - 2000           9.1      7.3    6.7    6.7      6.7
Growth percent 2001 onwards          8.2      6.8    4.5    4.5      4.5
Bassein Creek-Manor (NH-8)
Observed
2001                                 12741    806   3968   20132     392
Traffic-1995                          7840    471   2399   12129     233
Growth percent 1995-2000              8.4     9.4    8.8    8.8
Assumed Growth percent 2001 onwards   7.5      8     6.6    6.6       6.6
SAR Report
Traffic 1995                          7957    426   2497   12628     217
Traffic 2001                         13151    639   4020   20334     349
Growth percent 1995-2000              8.8      7     8.9    8.9       8.9
Growth percent 2001 onwards           7.9     6.6    6.6    6.6       6.6
Kamal - Ambala (NH-1)
Observed
2001 (km. 143)                       11825   1687   1310 ] 4680      899
Traffic-1995                         5982    1417   875    4008      204
Growth percent 1995-2000               11     2.6    6.7     2       27.7
Assumed Growth percent 2001 onwards    9       5     5.5     5        15



- 39 -
SAR Report
Traffic, 1995                       6046    1767   932    5199     107
2001                                10452   2761   1369   7642     158
Growth percent 1995-2000             9.6    7.7    7.2     7.2      7.3
Growth percent 2001 onwards          8.8    7.3    5.3     5.3      5.3
Indore - Dws(H3
Observed
2001                                3031    1202   932    4896     309
Traffic 1995                        2883    1768   344    4011      118
Growth percent 1995-2000             0.8    -6.2   18.1    3.4     17.4
Assumed Growth percent 2001 onwards   5      5      12     5        12
SAR Report
Traffic,1995                        4395    3296   261    5175      91
Traffic, 2001                        8582   5681   426    8465      149
Growth percent 1995-2000             11.9    9.5   9.2     9.2      9.2
Growth percent 2001 onwards          10.8    9     6.8     6.8      6.8
.Indore Bypass (NH-3)
Traffic estimates in ICR
Scenario - I
2001                                 1568   722    788    4602     266
Diversion Factors                    0.5     0.5   0.9      1        1
RevisedTraffic- 1995                 1469   431    376    4393      143
Growth percent 1995-2000             1.1     9     13.2    0.7      11
Assumed Growth percent 2001 onwards   5      7     9.5      5        5
Scenario - II
2001                                 1568   722    438    2301      133
Diversion Factors                    0.5     0.5   0.5     0.5      0.5
RevisedTraffic- 1995                 1469   431    297    3335      108
Growth percent 1995-2000              1      9     6.7     -6       3.5
Growth percent 2001 onwards           5      7      5       5        5
SAR Report
Traffic 1995                        2213    441    338    6300      138
Traffic 2001                        4321     760   552    10305     226
Growth percent 1995-2000             11.9    9.6   9.2     9.2      9.2
Growth percent 2001 onwards          10.8     9    6.8     6.8      6.8



-40 -
Bhubaneshwar - Jagatpur (NH-5)
Observed           _
2001   3180     1535      1259     4165      99
Revised Traffic-1995
3063     1505      1012     3352      80
1995-2000            0.6      0.4      3.7      3.7       3.5
2001 onwards          5        5        5        5         5
Bank Report
1995   4160  T  1934     1249     4137    _  _99
2001     6768    2872     1948      6456     154
1995-2000            8.5      6.8      8.3      8.3       8.2
2001 onwards         7.7      6.4      6.2       6.2      6.2



-41 -
Economic Evaluation for All Roads
Cost Stream (Without ProJect)                                               (Rs.million)
Economic Economic Economic Economic Economic    Economic        Net
Year   Calender  Agency    Agency   Vehicle   Travel Exogenous   Society    Economic
Year     Capital Recurrent Operation  Time    Cst-Bnf     Total     Benefits
1      1995     12.300   13.300  7684.750  1472.212  0.000    9182.562      0.000
2      1996     4.200    13.300  9454.799  1719.346  0.000    11191.645     0.000
3      1997     0.000    13.300  11057.601  1974.802  0.000   13045.703     0.000
4      1998     0.000    13.300  11915.098  2100.290  0.000   14028.688     0.000
5      1999     28.650   13.300  12881.022  2245.176  0.000   15168.148     0.000
6      2000     0.000    13.300  11986.915  2231.829  0.000   14232.044     0.000
7      2001     52.450   13.300  13539.817  2451.453  0.000   16057.020     0.000
8      2002     0.000    13.300  13869.166  2380.153  0.000   16262.619     0.000
9      2003     12.300   13.300  15756.178  2656.807  0.000   18438.585     0.000
10      2004    0.000    13.300  17441.597  2937.227  0.000    20392.124     0.000
11      2005    0.000    13.300  18907.819  3211.318  0.000    22132.437     0.000
12      2006    4.200    13.300  20635.091  3552.811  0.000    24205.402     0.000
13      2007    28.650   13.300  20755.439  3508.906  0.000    24306.295     0.000
14      2008    0.000    13.300  19035.393  3472.750  0.000    22521.443     0.000
15      2009    48.250   13.300  21569.581  3826.157  0.000    25457.288     0.000
16      2010    0.000    13.300  24714.828  4303.140  0.000    29031.268     0.000
17      2011    16.500   13.300  28207.187  4898.534  0.000    33135.521     0.000
18      2012    0.000    13.300  28612.027  4863.576  0.000    33488.903     0.000
19      2013    0.000    13.300  30124.300  5179.231  0.000    35316.831     0.000
20      2014     0.000   13.300  27214.000  5303.515  0.000    32530.815     0.000
Cost Stream (With Project)                                                  (Rs.million)
Economic Economic Economic Economic Economic    Economic        Net
Year   Calender  Agency    Agency   Vehicle   Travel Exogenous   Society    Economic
Year     Capital Recurrent Operation  Time    Cst-Bnf     Total     Benefits
1      1995    1226.767  13.300  7684.750  1472.212  0.000    10397.029    -1214.467
2      1996    1333.914  13.300  9454.799  1719.346   0.000   12521.359    -1329.714
3      1997    1670.353  13.300  11057.601  1974.802  0.000   14716.056    -1670.353
4       1998   1726.874  13.300  11915.098  2100.290  0.000   15755.561    -1726.874
5      1999    1619.218  13.300  12881.022  2245.176  0.000   16758.716    -1590.568
6      2000    1170.595  14.200  11898.231  2223.721  0.000   15306.747    -1074.703
7      2001    426.528   15.400  12800.650  2349.365  0.000   15591.943     465.077
8      2002     0.000    23.600  10675.079  2118.907  0.000   12817.586    3445.034
9      2003     0.000    23.600  11452.994  2266.665  0.000   13743.259    4695.326
10      2004    44.800   23.600  12315.427  2426.571  0.000    14810.398   5581.725
11      2005    0.000    23.600  13297.456  2597.667  0.000    15918.723   6213.713
12      2006    143.800  23.600  14617.933  2788.433  0.000    17573.766   6631.636
13      2007     0.000   23.600  15566.062  2983.510  0.000    18573.172   5733.123
14      2008    0.000    23.600  16796.421  3198.637  0.000    20018.658   2502.785
15      2009    44.800   23.600  18108.010  3428.931  0.000    21605.341   3851.947
16      2010    0.000    23.600  19505.447  3673.321  0.000    23202.368   5828.900
17      2011    143.800  23.600  21181.492  3935.910  0.000    25284.802   7850.719
18      2012     0.000   23.600  21694.366  4179.918  0.000    25897.884   7591.019
19      2013    0.000    23.600  23440.025  4486.607  0.000    27950.232   7366.599
.  20      2014   -3164.800  23.600  25339.647  4816.770  0.000   27015.217    5515.598
EIRR =         24.70%
NPV 0-12%=   Rs. 9.741.01



-42 -
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)    Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
(e.g., 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Count            Specialty       Implementation  Development
Month/Year                                        Progress       Objective
Identfficatfon/Preparation
Feb-Mar 1986                 2    1 EC, 1 HE
Sept-Oct 1986                3    1 EC, 2 HE
June 1987                    3    1 EC, 2 HE
June-July 1988               S    2 EC, 1 ES, 2 HE
Nov-Dec 1988                 2    2 HE
Feb-Mar 1989                 3    2 HE, 1 TEC
June 1989                    3    3 HE
Jan-Mar 1990                 5    3 HE, 1 EC, I
___ __ __ ___ _  _CONS
Appraisal/Negotfation
May 1990                     7    2 HE, I EC, 4
CONS
Nov-Dec 1990                 2    2 HE
Sept-Oct 1991                5    2 HE, 1 EC, 2 HE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _C O N S
Supervision
July 1992                    6    1 HE, 1 TEC,           S              S
2 CONS, I
CIO, 1 RPA
Feb-Mar 1993                 S    2 HE, 2 CONS, 1        S              S
CIO
July 1993                         2 HE, I PO, 2          S              S
CONS
Nov 1993                     3    1 HE, 1 PO, 1HE       S              S
CONS
Mar 1994                     3    1 HE, I HE CONS,       S              S
1 DC
July 1994                    5    1 HE, 1 PIS, 1 FA,     U              U
1 ES, 1 HE CONS
Nov 1994                     4    1 HE, 1 FA, 1 IS, 1    U              U
HE CONS
Mar-Apr 1995                 5    2 HE, 1 FA, I IS,      S              S
1 HE CONS
July-Aug 1995                4    1 HE, 1 FA,1HE         S              S
CONS, 1 CE
CONS
Nov-Dec 1995                 2    1 HE, 1 CE CONS        U               S
Mar-Apr 1996                 3    1 HE, 1 IS, 1 HE       U              U
CONS
Apr-June 1997                6    1 RPA, 1 HECD          U               S
CONS, 1 PTS, 1



-43 -
HE CONS, I HE,
1 HEX CONS
Nov'97-Jan'98                   6    3 HE, 1 PTS, I           S               S
SDS, 1 ARCH
CONS
Mar-May 1999                    9    4 HE, 1 OA, 1            S               S
SDO, 1 HE CONS,
1 STU CONS, I
FA CONS
Aug-Dec 1999                    9    3 HE, 1 TP, 1                    S       S
SDO, I HE CONS,
1 STU CONS, 1
FA CONS, 1
ARCH CONS
Jan-May 2000                   9     2 HE, 1 TE, 1            S               S
SDO, 1 TA, I HE
CONS, 1 STU
CONS, I ARCH
CONS, I CPS
CONS
Nov'00-April'O1                10    I HE, 1 TE, 1                            S 5
SDS, 1 ES, 1 TA, 2
HE CONS, 1 STU
CONS, 1 ARCH
CONS, 1 ES
Apr-June 2001                   5    1 TE, 1 TA, 2 HE,        S               S
I STU
ICR
July-Aug 2001                  5      1 TE, 1 TA, I           S               S
HE, 1 STU, I
TEC
ARCH=Architect, CE=Civil Engineer, CIO=Chief India Infrastructure Operations, CONS=Consultant, DC=Division Chief,
EC=Economist, ES=Environmental Specialist, FA=Financial Analyst, HCDR=Highway Construction & Dispute Resolution
Specialist, HE=Highway Engineer, HEX=Highway Expert, IS=Institutional Specialist, OA=Operations Adviser, PIS=Public
Institution Specialist, PO=Project Officer, PTS=PTincipal Transport Specialist, RPA=Regional Procurement Adviser,
SDO=Social Development Officer, SDS=Social Development Specialist, STU=Structures Engineer, TA=Team Assistant,
TE=Transport Engineer, TEC-Transport Economist
(b)     Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
__ ___ _  No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 83.5                        206.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                     126.4                        319.7
Supervision                              242.9                         663.4
1CR                                       39.7                          26.7
Total                                    492.5                        1216.5



-44 -
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     OH OSUOmM ON       * NA
O Sector Policies                    O H OSU*M ON        O NA
O Physical                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Financial                          O H OSUOM      ON * NA
O Institutional Development          0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
Ol Environmental                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction           O H OSU*M O N O NA
L Gender                       O H OSUOM      ON * NA
L Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
LI Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management           0 H O SU * M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM ON        * NA



-45 -
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS *U OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS       OU     O HU
El Overall                                            OHS OS       OU     OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS        * U   O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS OS      O U    0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                   O HS OS      O U    0 HU
a Overall                                             OHS OS OU OHU



-46 -
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
1.     Full supervision reports, including Form 590 / PSR of the project;
2.     Various reports, data, information received from MOST and PWDs on project completion;
3.     Quarterly Progress Report (Quarter ending 30 June, 2001), MOST
4.     Mid-term Review Mission Aide Memoire, July 1998
5.     Report for Mid Term Review, MOST, June 1998
6.     Staff Appraisal Report dated April 14, 1992



PAKISTAN          76      i                                                                  IBRD 237
P  NJ Bs r    dCh~e7dts y'                                     INDIA
Sirhind   AmbaIa\~   7     : 3    SECOND      NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
COMPLETED ROAD MODERNIZATION WORKS
COMPLETED ROAD MODERNIZATION WORKS
-   NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
o     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
RAJASTDE$\  D fX-E LHI  >   fi9*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
RAJAST           ). r       L         |UTTAR                      STATE OR UNION TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
/\\   /  (-   PRADESH      - - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(   1 00   ~  200/  \ <                  This map mas produced by the mop Design Unit of The World Bank
00                   '                           The boundaries, colors, denominotions and onyother information shoisn
KILOMETERS                                          on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, ony
Agra t  _   r '  - - _   ljudgment on the legalstotus of ony territory, or ony endorsement or
Jaipur       L                           occeptonce of such boundories
/                                B HAR         /
w.~~                                     " \, -I     g1         _          )    1:! 77>^
/        d I~~, ~/- -v zJ
Ahmedabad  -                   ~~~~~~~~~~Bho al
X4d _<\           \ ~~~~Dewot~JA                                         * 
G     GeRAT   ,/Indore
MADHYA PRA      ESH      22                               KOLKATA
MAHARASHTRA
1E   Xj,   t 0  100  200            Bhu"1ae 1har
KILOMETERS
APRIL 2002









IMAGING
Report No.:         23914
Type:     ICR



